Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our fourth quarter results as well as have been posted to our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
And third is continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 4 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the fourth quarter organic revenue growth was 4% overall highlighted by strong growth in our HR Outsourcing and Americas Retail Brokerage businesses.
Operating margin increased 160 basis points primarily reflecting significant margin improvement in our HR Solutions segment.
EPS increased 21% to $1.54 reflecting strong operating performance a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow increased 23% driven by strong working capital performance and a decline in CapEx spend.
If we turn to the full year organic revenue growth was 3% overall reflecting solid growth across both segments despite pricing pressure on our reinsurance business and overall economic uncertainty in Europe.
Operating margin increased 40 basis points reflecting strong margin improvement in Risk.
EPS increased 16% to $4.89.
And finally free cash flow increased 22% to $1.4 billion driven by a record $1.6 billion cash flow from operations a truly incredible effort from the team as we're well on track to double annual free cash flow in the next 3 to 5 years.
Overall our results reflect a strong finish to a solid year with improvement across each key metric for both the fourth quarter and full year.
Having made significant investments across the firm in both risk analytics and the most robust set of solutions for health care exchanges we continue to strengthen our platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and significantly increase financial strength in 2014.
Turning to Slide 4.
On the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 3%.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage; with management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average highlighting strong client satisfaction in Retail Brokerage; double-digit growth in new business generation reflecting more than $335 million across our Retail business; with strong growth across the Americas EMEA and Asia Pacific regions; investments in new products and service capabilities with the growth of GRIP and Aon Broking delivering increased operating leverage; and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 11 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions in the Americas organic revenue growth was 4% exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting the steady pace of market impact.
We saw strong growth in Latin America and solid growth in U.S.
Retail including growth across all businesses: property/casualty Health and Benefits and Affinity.
In U.S.
Retail we delivered a record level of new business with solid management of the renewal book portfolio including record levels of retention.
In International organic revenue growth was 2%.
Exposures continued to be stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average.
We saw a growth in multiple markets: New Zealand Italy Spain and Portugal to name a few with double-digit growth across Asia.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe macroeconomic conditions still remain relatively fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across this region we continue to deliver modest growth against the same economic and market headwinds.
In Reinsurance as we noted previously our third quarter was favorably impacted by the timing of revenue pulled forward from the current quarter and we expected a modest decline in organic revenue.
Overall organic revenue growth was flat for the quarter.
Results reflect growth in our capital market transactions and advisory business as well as net new business growth in treaty placements offset by the anticipated unfavorable impact of timing in the quarter.
As we've noted over the past year record capacity continues to be available to meet demand and cedents are retaining more risk driving expected negative market impact most notably in the U.S.
Absent an event in the industry macro factors will continue to be a headwind in 2014.
Against those headwinds we expect results to continue to reflect flat to modest growth highlighted by net new business won which was positive for the 11th consecutive quarter growth from investments internationally and capital markets and advisory transactions business.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's unmatched level of investment and long-term value proposition for clients while strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth was 8% with growth across both major businesses and in areas where we're making significant investments in the business including health care exchanges investment consulting and delegated investment solutions.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding an influence of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risks continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving; multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at the local level; managing and transferring risk across and against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded; and finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are just beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 1% compared to 8% in the prior year quarter which benefited from certain non-recurring pension de-risking activities.
Results in the quarter reflect solid growth across our compensation consulting business and in our retirement business for investment consulting and delegated pension management services partially offset by a modest decline in demand through actuarial services and retirement consulting.
Despite weak demand for discretionary services and overall economic weakness in Continental Europe for the full year we delivered low- to mid-single-digit organic growth across the Consulting Services business and would anticipate similar levels of growth in 2014.
In Outsourcing organic revenue increased 11%.
Organic revenue reflects substantial growth in our health care exchange business as we recognize revenue related to the majority of enrollments that take place during the fourth quarter in our active and retiree exchanges.
Results also reflect modest growth in our HR BPO and in benefits administration for discretionary services partially offset by unfavorable net client activity that we saw in early 2013 but became less of a headwind starting in Q4.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership with the international rollout of the Revenue Engine and Client Promise through our greater productivity and efficiency.
We're investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information capturing roughly 1.9 million trades and $100 billion of bound premium.
We continue to have a growing client list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and services capabilities.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
We continue to align our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
And we're investing in the further development of data and analytics capability of Aon Benfield to strengthen our already industry-leading client-serving assets.
Finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position and comprehensive portfolio of health solutions including health care exchanges.
Health care exchanges as Aon Hewitt's unique business model reflects enable clients to begin transitioning their participants to a sustainable full-service solution based on expanded choice and a competitive marketplace.
Clients continue to reinforce the value of Aon's industry-leading vision for private health exchanges as we're seeing increased interest from a broadening spectrum of industries and geographies.
In Q4 we were very pleased with our enrollment results and the excellent service experience we delivered for our clients and their employees and retirees.
In the Aon active health exchange employer participation was 6x higher and employee covered lives tripled.
We delivered on our Q4 anticipated enrollment numbers of more than 600 000 lives including eligible dependents.
On the Aon Retiree Health Exchange we serve more than 300 000 of our clients' retirees to evaluate the best Medicare options for their needs.
Overall we're excited about our robust pipeline of clients for the 2014 enrollment continue to see increased interest from a broadening spectrum of industries and look forward to updating you on our progress later this year when our primary sales cycle has ended.
Separately across our HR Solutions portfolio we're expanding in high-growth areas with innovative solutions to derisk pension plans.
And our delegated investment solutions are opening relationships in new markets.
We're also providing a broader set of advisory and advocacy solutions to our clients' employees to enable greater choice and improve decision making on their retirement and health care options.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platforms.
And finally we're strengthening our International footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
In summary for both the fourth quarter and full year we delivered positive performance across each of our key financial metrics.
In addition we strengthened our industry-leading platform with strategic investments across data analytics and solutions that we expect will drive long-term growth and greater operating leverage in 2014.
With that said I am now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thank you very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted we delivered positive performance against all 4 key metrics while continuing to position Aon's industry-leading platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and significantly increased financial strength in 2014 and beyond.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 21% to $1.54 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $1.27 per share in the prior year quarter.
Results of the quarter reflect strong operating performance in our HR and Risk Solutions segments a lower effective tax rate as we deliver long-term benefits related to the company's redomicile and effective capital management reflecting the company's share repurchase program.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 13 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization and restructuring charges related to the Aon Hewitt reconstructing program.
All charges for the formal restructuring program have now been completed.
Lastly foreign currency translation had a $0.03 unfavorable impact on EPS in the quarter due primarily to a stronger dollar U.S.
dollar versus the Australian dollar Canadian dollar and Brazilian real.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect no material impact in the first quarter.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% operating margin increased 40 basis points to 23.6% and operating income increased 2% versus the prior year quarter.
Organic growth driven by investments in GRIP and analytics as well as $9 million of restructuring savings were partially offset by a $16 million or 40 basis points unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring program key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
Under the Aon Hewitt program approximately $99 million of estimated savings will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $69 million of the cumulative savings has been achieved under the program with the remaining $30 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 14 of the press release.
We would note that 100% of the charges have been incurred and the Aon Hewitt restructuring program is closed.
In Q4 we delivered solid underlying operating performance in Risk Solutions despite an unfavorable impact from foreign currency continued economic uncertainty in Europe and unfavorable market impact in Reinsurance.
For 2013 Risk Solutions operating income grew roughly 6% and operating margin increased 80 basis points to 22.5% placing us firmly on track for improved operating income performance in 2014 and further margin expansion toward our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 8% operating margin increased 440 basis points to 21.4% and operating income increased 36% versus the prior year quarter in line with management's guidance.
Significant growth in our health care exchange business and $18 million of incremental restructuring savings were the primary drivers of our anticipated strong fourth quarter performance.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program approximately $260 million of the $303 million in total cumulative savings has been achieved under the program with the remaining $43 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
As Greg noted we made tremendous progress in 2013 delivering on both our operational and financial goals that were laid out at the beginning of the year.
This performance is exactly in line with our long-term outlook for the HR segment and places us firmly on track for improved performance in 2014.
For HR in 2014 we expect to number one deliver organic growth; number two generate greater scale and improve return from investments; number three deliver remaining savings related to the restructuring program; number four deliver in 2014 greater than mid single-digit operating income growth and further margin expansion toward our long-term target of 22%.
The patterning will be similar to 2013.
Down in the first half both Q1 and Q2; up in the second half of the year; flat in Q3; and up substantially in Q4.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses increased $6 million to $54 million reflecting an increase in long-term employee incentive compensation programs.
Interest income decreased $1 million to $3 million.
Interest expense increased $2 million due to costs associated with certain derivative hedging program.
Other income of $14 million primarily includes gains on sales of businesses and certain long-term investments as we monetize our long-term investments and put the capital to better use for shareholders.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $60 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 24.2% compared to 25.2% in the prior year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2013 was favorably impacted by changes in the geographic distribution of income and certain discrete tax adjustments.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 311.4 million in the fourth quarter compared to 327.5 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased approximately 1 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $77 million in the fourth quarter.
The company has $2.9 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on December 31 were 300.7 million and there are approximately 9 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q1 2014 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 310 million subject to share price movements share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our significant financial flexibility and strong free cash flow on Page 10.
At December 31 2013 cash and short-term investments were $1 billion and total debt outstanding was $4.4 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital decreased to 35% at December 31 compared to 37.7% at September 30.
Cash flow from operations increased 18% to $649 million in the fourth quarter due primarily to growth in net income and a decrease in pension contribution.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 23% or $110 million to $594 million in the fourth quarter driven by strong cash flow from operations and a $13 million decrease in CapEx.
For the full year cash flow from operations was a record $1.6 billion up 15% due primarily to growth in net income strong working capital performance and a decrease in pension contribution.
Free cash flow increased 22% or $254 million to $1.4 billion driven by a record cash flow from operations and a $40 million decrease in CapEx a truly outstanding performance.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
As you can see from this chart based on current assumptions we would expect free cash flow to increase by over $600 million annually over the next 5 years based only on a reduction in cash used for pension and restructuring.
Continued growth in the core business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate would generate additional free cash flow growth that puts us well on track with our goal of doubling free cash flow to more than $2.3 billion annually within the next 3 to 5 years.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continued to derisk certain plan assets.
Our overall unfunded status improved to $1.6 billion and 91% at year end 2013 compared to $2.3 billion and 82% at year end 2012.
We currently expect contributions to decrease by roughly $138 million to $385 million in 2014 and continue to decline thereafter.
Additionally noncash pension expense was roughly $21 million in 2013 and we would expect noncash pension expense is 0 in 2014.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $152 million in 2013.
As all charges related to the restructuring programs have now been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $60 million to approximately $90 million in 2014 and decline further each year thereafter.
In summary we finished the fourth quarter and full year 2013 with solid performance across all 4 key financial metrics.
We continued to make substantial investments for clients and drive future long-term growth in both Risk and HR Solutions.
We delivered 22% free cash flow growth and have focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute substantially to a doubling of annual free cash flow more than $2.3 billion annually over the next 3 to 5 years.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we've positioned the firm for improved financial performance and significant shareholder value creation in 2014 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on exchanges.
Number one has the sales cycle for benefit admin exchanges started earlier than normal and is it active? And then the second question you've obviously put on a big jump in new clients this year on both the active and retiree.
Do you have more capacity as you go into next year to onboard even more clients than you did this year? So 2 different questions.
First Adam on your question on the sales cycle.
I would say this is part of an ongoing conversation with our clients around literally how they serve their employees and support them in a more effective way.
So as we completed the cycle last year it's really been a continuous set of conversations with clients.
We're obviously in the middle of a sales cycle now but it's been a really continuous set of conversations that I must say had been building in momentum.
More clients are interested cutting across a broad set of geographies and industries in all sizes and shapes.
So sort of very very active set of conversations.
And then as we've said before for us we have plenty of capacity.
This has been about building in a very thoughtful methodical way on the active side initially with 3 companies this cycle with 18 companies.
The pipeline is exceptionally strong and we have capacity and fully anticipate adding some of the next set of clients.
And most important is serving them in an impeccable way which we were very pleased to do this last cycle.
And the same is holding on the retiree side too.
So very very very positive set of developments and it's within the context of what we do in ben admin anyway.
We serve 9 million employees in ben admin across the board now on the active and the retiree side.
So it's part of a natural progression and it's proceeded very very well.
Next question is Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple of questions.
First Greg I'm curious could you give us some insight into what you see happening in the emerging markets right now? And could that have any impact on your business here in 2014 with the economic slowdown there? Well actually Brian for us -- first of all from an overall context about 50% of our global business overall and we've seen continued strong growth on the emerging markets side.
I was just actually back -- I was in Beijing and Shanghai and Suzhou and it was -- just tremendous opportunity everywhere.
When you think about it's obviously tied to GDP that might be a bit of a headwind but when you think about the level of incidence of insurance that have a coverage across per dollar of GDP the growth opportunity in the emerging markets is just for us from a risk standpoint is substantial.
And so we're seeing very strong growth across Asia across Latin America with particularly very high growth and well into the double digits in a number of countries.
So from our standpoint we -- this is a very positive industry a very positive area of investment and development for us and we don't see that changing.
And if it's great and it's a little less great it's still in the great category.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Christa I'm wondering if I can just clarify your comments with respect to margin guidance in the HR Solutions business.
Did you say that you expect margins to actually be down again in the first half of the year in '14 and then flat third quarter and then up in the fourth quarter? And if so why? Yes.
So I was actually providing operating income guidance as opposed to margin guidance.
And operating income overall we think will be greater than mid-single-digit growth in 2014.
And then some of the patterning it will be similar to 2013.
Down in the first half both Q1 and Q2; flat in Q3; and up substantially in Q4.
And it's really reflecting the continued investment we make to support our clients in health care exchanges in 2014.
And as you know we incur expenses in all 4 quarters of the year in our health care exchange business and recognize the revenue in Q4.
As we continue to scale more clients really because of the success we've had in the 2013 cycle we are continuing to invest throughout the calendar year in 2014.
That's why that patterning is continuing to occur.
Research Division</strong> Is that because there's expense in onboard-ing the clients in the first half of the year is that what's happening? Yes that's exactly right.
Brian if you think about it we've invested substantially -- said we would achieve mid-single-digit operating income in '13 which we did.
Christa guided sort of where we're going to be in '14 which we will.
Within that we will have invested substantially sort of in the exchange side.
But if you think about the categories of that '13 was about really a lot of the infrastructure and things to get it up and running and really sort of build all the components of it what you're seeing in the discussion in '14 is our anticipation of where the pipeline is and indications we're getting now of how that's going to evolve.
And that really is going to be about specific client investment in addition to continued investment around the client experience.
Next question is Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple of questions.
First I may have missed this on the call but can you give us a sense of what the tax rate will look like in 2014? Yes Jay as we think about the tax rate we've given long-term guidance on the tax rate of sort of more than 500 basis points.
As we think about the tax rate for 2014 we're not giving guidance going forward.
We have given long-term guidance and we'll report updates on progress as we report our results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on the reinsurance broking side I guess I was interested in your comment suggesting that you may be able to eke out flat or even up organic revenue growth in 2014 despite what appears to be some pretty stiff headwinds and I'm wondering why that is.
And part of the question is when you think about your compensation on the Reinsurance side how much is fees versus commissions? So Jay if we step back and think about sort of what we've done historically first of all irrespective of kind of what's happening on the pricing side the exposure side we've said we're going to grow the Risk Solutions business.
That includes the Reinsurance business and that's exactly what our goal is for 2014.
And we believe we're going to be on track to do that.
You're absolutely right there is some substantial headwinds when you think about some of the capital.
There's a record level of capital in the industry now well above $500 billion.
We've had a relatively light cat year and then that's fully compounded by the continued influx of capital from nontraditional sources which is kind of at the $45 billion $50 billion level now.
We expect it to grow over time.
Having said that from our standpoint our view is that when you think about what we do on behalf of clients we're really helping them understand how to create value with their balance sheet reduce volatility improve operating performance that's right exactly in the wheelhouse of what we do at Aon Benfield.
We've invested in data and analytics in ways no one else has really been able to -- has ever done.
And we believe that's going to help us serve clients effectively and that's why we believe we can continue to grow that business over time and fully anticipate being able to do that.
Research Division</strong> And the fees versus the commissions is the decent part of this fee does that help protect the revenue to some extent? Yes no it's a mix on both sides so fee and commission.
We're about 70% commission and about 30% fee overall.
But we're doing a number of things on behalf of clients in addition to treaty placements.
Some of it -- it's really just sort of adding advice and some of the things that come with data and analytics to help them think about their business overall that's an increasing component.
I would also say for us when you think about our leadership position kind of in the alternative capital area in cat bonds as an example I mean just -- there's clearly an acceleration on that front.
If you think about since 2010 give or take probably been about 90 93 94 deals done over that period of time.
We've been involved in over half of them.
Now there's been an acceleration of the 93.
31 were done last year.
Again we're involved in over half of them.
So from our standpoint there's lots of aspects in how we help insurers improve their performance across Aon Benfield.
And that is reflected in our historical performance.
I would also just say reflect on sort of Aon over the last 5 6 7 years in virtually any economic environment we've been able to grow the business overall.
And in fact we've grown it every year except one in which we were just down slightly.
So our view is we've seen the movie before and fully anticipate being able to grow and help our clients succeed.
Next question is Gregory Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Again on reinsurance brokerage it looks like organic growth dropped in '04 '05 to mid-single digits.
And pricing in that environment was actually pretty bad.
So can you compare the business for reinsurance today versus the '04 '05 when the pricing declines were similar? Why is it different why won't we be seeing negative organics in the future periods in this division? A lot of those I just described to Jay.
I can't really speak for the overall industry where we'll all [ph] be.
I would just reflect on what Aon's been able to achieve in that exact environment.
In that environment we've been able to actually grow our position and fundamentally this is about obviously exceptional treaty placement as we described.
But it really is more broadly about what we do on behalf of clients insurers to help them succeed.
And in our case the investment around data and analytics is just quite substantial.
We invest well over $120 million a year real money cash in data -- in developing content and capability to help our clients make better decisions that again will improve operating performance strengthen their balance sheet reduce volatility.
In that context treaty placement is one aspect it's very important one aspect but you're adding to that now all the capital markets choices they have as well as just very clear views around how analytics data insight can actually help them make better decisions.
And that's really the broad-based value proposition what is just unique about Aon Benfield.
It really has been what they've been able to do my colleagues have been able to do over many many years.
And if you look at kind of new business generation again it's been net positive for 11 consecutive quarters through multiple types of environments.
And we fully expect it will continue to do that as we help insurers succeed at Aon Benfield.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so basically you have a more robust product offering today than you did in the mid-2000s is that fair? No I would say it's continued to evolve.
We have a quite more substantial product offering.
Again if you're investing $120 million-plus a year on content and capability it's broader it's deeper it's more connected globally.
And equally important we believe it's highly differentiated.
There aren't many players in the industry doing what we do could invest in content and capability the way we do on behalf of clients and haven't had any the impact that it's had on behalf of clients.
Because in the end that's what really is what generates client leadership you're helping clients succeed.
And we've been able to do that and we believe that capability has strengthened substantially really every year for the period of time you described.
And that's why we're in a we believe in a very advantaged position as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then again on reinsurance brokerage the reported revenues flow kind of linearly through the year while as the renewal cycle for the industry is Jan 1 June 1.
So can you kind of tie the 2 in other words -- and the reason I'm asking is is do you kind of have great visibility on your revenues for the reinsurance division already based on what was bound on January 1? Of course just as you said I would say there's a substantial number of renewals that happen on -- a percentage which happen on 1/1 and then in April and then June.
So we have a good visibility on the treaty front and see how that evolves although we would recognize revenue over the course of the year.
That's why you see that flatten out.
But as I said before there's a lot of activity we do on behalf of clients in addition to the treaty portion of the equation.
And all those are now part of the discussion and are active and ongoing.
But you're absolutely right in terms of how the treaty evolves and we certainly have a -- we have a visibility on how the 1/1s played out for sure.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And last is just on Reinsurance again.
Can you just talk about your ability to flex the margin? Let's just say you get kind of 6 months out and the world breaks to the negative a bit versus planned or perhaps it breaks to the positive a bit versus planned.
How do you flex the margin in this what's your ability to toggle the P&amp;L? Yes we think about it.
And it's less about the market and it's really about the value that we provide to clients.
And fundamentally this is the absolute focus of Aon Benfield and my colleagues sort of in this arena.
And when you think about as we add value to clients -- and it turns out by the way oftentimes the greatest value you add for them particularly when you're adding advice data and analytics on top of what you do in treaty and other arenas in times of stress it's actually the biggest opportunity to help clients succeed.
So our ability to actually provide value have clients recognize the value and then get paid for value we believe continues to increase.
And that gives us the ability to actually think through sort of the ability to get a return out of the business which we've been able to do.
And just one sort of set of facts to reinforce what Greg just said if you look at the Reinsurance revenue growth in 2012 of 5% in 2013 it was 2%.
And despite a decline in Reinsurance growth year-over-year risk margins are up 80 basis points.
So we feel very good about our ability to grow Risk Solutions margin despite the macroeconomic headwinds we're facing.
Next question is Meyer Shields of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think I have -- maybe more directed towards Christa.
If we look at the uses of cash on Slide 11 it looks the pension contribution and CapEx forecast came down pretty significantly from the last update that we had.
I was hoping you could explain what's going on there? Yes so that's absolutely right Meyer.
So I think pension contributions came down commensurate with our unfunded pension liability which declined from year end 2012 of $2.3 billion to $1.6 billion.
So a $700 million decline in unfunded pension liability which is decreasing our cash contributions.
And you could see the pension contributions will continue to come down over the following years and that's really in terms of -- driven by improved long-term rates.
And then CapEx you can see we finished 2013 at a lower level than we expected.
And we expect CapEx to grow in line with revenue going forward albeit from a lower base.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears a little bit the share repurchases slowed in the quarter compared to what we saw in the third quarter.
Is that -- is there anything underlying that or is that just the way things shake out? No as we think about share repurchase we think about return on capital and cash-on-cash returns.
And share repurchase remains our highest return investment hence the fact that we repurchased $1.1 billion of shares during the course of 2013 despite providing guidance sort of around the $800 million level.
And if you think about it we provided original -- we did $1.1 billion in 2012 as well but of that $300 million came off the balance sheet.
So as we think about share repurchase we expect share repurchase in 2014 to be similar to 2013.
And then obviously excess cash we'll deploy on a cash-on-cash return using return on capital as the metric we use to allocate all excess uses of cash.
Next question is Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could spend some time highlighting more of what you're seeing going on within the U.S.
economy.
I know you pointed to stable exposure in your prepared remarks and kind of how you see the economic conditions in the U.S.
impacting what you expect to see with your organic revenue in 2014.
Yes as we've said -- a couple of things as you think about overall.
First of all just the broad-based macro trends right now we described was kind of pricing environment which has really been stable around kind of flat overall with an exposure change which has been modestly positive.
So for us from a U.S.
standpoint you can start to see aspects of the U.S.
economy strengthening not strong but strengthening overall.
And so that's sort of the macro view of where we are.
But I would say though in that context back to our ability to make investments in the business and improve margin we continue to make investments in the business and that really has helped us from the standpoint of just -- from -- and this is really around Client Promise and what we do on Revenue Engine and all the different pieces of it really helps us generate level of new business $336 million across our Retail business really driven across the U.S.
as well that is a record level for us.
So we feel very good about sort of what we have in place the investments we've made and the impact we're going to have over time as we grow the business organically really irrespective of sort of what happens on U.S.
GDP.
And in the end if you look at the components we've got a big construction book and that's obviously trending a little more positive entries [ph] is a little more positive tracks [ph] a little more positive from that standpoint.
And then that puts -- and the exposures overall against those pieces are up a bit as I've said before.
And that really is sort of how we see the U.S.
playing out with some positive overall macro implications and -- amplified by what we do from an investment standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question on the reinsurance broking business you pointed to your presence within the alternative capacity market.
How big is that as compared to your overall book? It's very small overall.
As we said before a large piece obviously of our treaty book.
But this is a smaller percentage overall 5% to 10% let's say but growing.
And I'll -- what I wanted to highlight is if you think about alternative capital this we believe is a reality it's an option for clients it's highly viable.
About $45 billion or so in the context of call it a $550 billion capital base for the insurance world.
We are primary in it but overall it turns out to be 5% to 10% of our overall book.
Next question Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Christa maybe following up on Meyer's question on the kind of sources -- or the uses of cash Slide 11.
So it looks like -- so pension contributions went down on forward -- or are going to decline.
CapEx looks like it's going to decline and -- but the cumulative increase to free cash flow doesn't seem to be increasing by as much as those 2 things are declining.
Is there -- if we had sources of cash what would that look like I guess? Yes.
So look maybe the best way to start that question is Michael is to sort of start with free cash flow in 2012 which was $1.15 billion.
The free cash flow number in 2012 is the number we're anchoring from to double to get to $2.3 billion over the next 3 to 5 years.
And included in that free cash flow our free cash flow definition is cash from operations straight from the cash flow statement less CapEx.
Included in cash from operations is pension contribution and restructuring.
And then obviously the less CapEx means this CapEx number is also included in the free cash flow number.
So if you think about it and your starting point obviously for free cash flow now is $1.4 billion because it's what we produced in 2013.
And so if you look at this cumulative increase you can basically take the $1.15 billion add $600 million so you get to $1.75 billion which is just from these 3 line items by themselves that includes no improvement in operations of our business all our revenue growth and continued margin expansion or a decline in tax rate.
And so you can see that we are making good progress towards doubling free cash flow over the next 3 to 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I mean and I'll take it offline I guess.
But just if I look at -- just from '14 on because '13 is behind us.
If I look at '14 on and I compare it to -- it looks like you're a couple of hundred million dollars better on pension maybe a little bit more.
Couple of hundred million dollars better on CapEx but the cumulative free cash flow is up by about $20 million over that period.
So the way to think about it is if you look at the 2014 number and say it's $333 million as the cumulative increase and then you look at the $602 million then from $214 million to $218 million you've got a $300 million increase in free cash flow just from the line items above.
And you add that to $1.4 billion which equals $1.7 billion.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
I'll take it offline.
I guess -- Greg I guess or maybe Christa as well on the Risk segment so you had -- margins were up about [indiscernible] on 3 points of organic.
Where do you need organic to be overall I mean is that -- do you think about it that way in order to continue to expand margins? Or because of GRIP and Broking do you feel like you have levers to continue to expand margins even if organic falls below that level.
Yes I would just start at the top line.
Our view is we are going to continue to expand the risk margin overall.
And if you look across time I've made investments have been able to do that and at largely multiple types of organic growth environments.
And that's in fact exactly what we intend to be able to do.
A lot of the investments around GRIP what we've done and analytics have really helped create leverage operating leverage in the business which is more substantial.
So our ability to improve margin on lower growth rates is real.
And you're starting to see that actually play out in the improvement this year.
You'll see that play out over time.
If we happen to get continued big pickup in the global economy or we happen to get rate improvement et cetera not something our management team has actually ever experienced we'd love that.
That would be great.
But that's not what we require in order to actually improve the margin of the business.
And that's really been part of the strategy over a multi-year period to invest in the business so that we could in fact improve margins irrespective of the overall rate or exposure environment.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one just on the exchanges.
How much capacity do you have on the exchange right now I mean without investing more in terms of number of covered lives that you could put on the exchange? And where do you expect to be at the end of next year just given whatever investments you plan to make during the year? We have substantial capacity.
Again our goal here is to serve clients in an effective way.
First and foremost making absolutely certain that the experience that our client has and their employees have is absolutely pristine.
As we've said before we've done that through the last few cycles feel very good about that.
And now is the opportunity to continue to react and to help our clients in a much broader more robust pipeline.
We have capacity to do that.
And we'll update you when we get through the next sales cycle maybe the second or third quarter.
When we have that behind us we'll take you through kind of what the overall picture looks like at that point in time and then move forward from there.
But we've got a lot of capacity as we planned it out to help our clients succeed.
Our last question comes from Mike Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In terms of revenues in HR Solutions Consulting Services slowed down Outsourcing clearly picked up a lot.
Should we be thinking about a shift in dynamic which is due to health care exchanges or are they independent of each other? They're independent of each other.
And as we look at our Consulting business we'd say it grew 3% for calendar year 2013 and we'd expect something similar for 2014.
And some of the Q4 number we really have had a very strong comparable in Q4 2012 as Greg mentioned.
And so that was really what's happening there.
Yes and I'd add one other piece.
As you think about the overall business as I said we're very -- we feel very positive very pleased with sort of how our efforts on the exchange front are evolving.
But within the context of broad-based Aon Hewitt and all the things we're doing there we've made some tremendous investments on the talent solutions side in what we're doing to help clients think about really transitioning to the cloud-based approach on HR and really kind of the idea of Software-as-a-Service space for HR tremendous investments.
On the retirement solutions side we've done a lot of work in the pension space which is very interesting very dynamic.
A number of investments there really thinking about our delegated pension management services and what we can do and accomplish to help clients really think about overall oversight management of their pension plans.
And certainly on the defined pension -- or on defined contribution side we've got a couple of efforts something called DC Nexus and SimPlus Savings you're going to hear a lot about over time.
So I want to emphasize the exchange story we believe is compelling powerful and emerging.
But it's really within the context -- it's a small part of Aon Hewitt overall.
In fact we continue the investment in the bottom line in '13.
We hope it will be slightly positive in '14 from a bottom line standpoint.
But there's a lot going on across Aon Hewitt that we're very very excited about and a lot's going on inside the Consulting business we're very very excited about in terms of sort of the overall picture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
So not to -- I realize it's a small piece of revenues but operating income clearly was terrific in HR Solutions this quarter.
Would you say a good portion of that was due to the health care exchange impact? No as I've said before if you think about -- what we said is we're going to be able to invest in the business and invest or -- and then actually improve operating income mid-single digits which is exactly what we did.
It was actually negative from the exchange side for '13 and we expect it will be slightly positive for '14.
The real operating leverage that comes to the exchanges shows up in '15 to '16 and as we continue to evaluate the pipeline and think about the -- what really has been a tremendous set of conversations coming through there our view is that we will be at a very good place from an operating leverage standpoint in '15 and '16 and just would say again what Christa laid out for you is that we're going to have greater than mid-single digits operating improvement growth in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And finally for Christa back to the tax rate so is it long run the tax rate falls below -- you said 5 points is that below 24% 23% is that how we should be thinking long-term? No no no.
I said when we started 2012 we had a tax rate of 29%.
We then filed a statement which basically said that our tax rate would be more than 500 basis points starting at 29%.
And we expect that to happen over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you got to 24% this quarter but we should be thinking to stay at this level will be -- down in the longer run.
The thing I would say is quarterly tax rate numbers get impacted by certain things like discrete tax numbers.
And the 25% for the full year is sort of the rate I would look at for the full year.
All right thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
That's it everyone.
Thanks very much for participating and I look forward to our discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Corporation's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it's important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our first quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Corporation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me today is our CFO Christa Davies.
To begin our first quarter results reflect continued momentum and progress as we execute on our strategy to distinctly strengthen and unite Aon around the globe irrespective of the stock market economic conditions or other challenges outside our control.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review: First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is continued areas of investment across Aon; and third is overall organic growth performance.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
In the first quarter organic revenue was plus 2% highlighted by solid growth in both our Retail Brokerage and Consulting Services businesses placing us firmly on track for growth in 2011.
Adjusted operating margin decreased 230 basis points and EPS was $0.80 as the inclusion of Hewitt results including a significant increase in intangible amortization expense and a higher effective tax rate offset strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
Overall our team views the underlying first quarter results as a solid quarter of continued progress as we strengthen the firm for long-term growth and value creation.
On the second topic further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities.
As we have significant opportunity remaining to deliver further margin expansion we will continue to build on our leadership position and industry-leading capabilities to capture growth opportunities we see across our markets specifically focused on the 2 most dynamic sectors of the global economy risk and people.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions we're investing in innovative technology such as our Global Risk Insight Platform and Impact On Demand to ensure that clients have full access to the best of global Aon in every region around the globe.
In fact highlighting the unique value of GRIP we've now completed over 1 million trades capturing more than $50 billion of premium and continue to expand its addressable market opportunity.
We're also investing additional capability in talent as well as strengthening our international footprint through recent and continued acquisitions such as Glenrand in South Africa which solidifies our position as the largest broker on the continent of Africa.
We're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the revenue engine in EMEA and Asia Pacific; the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention rates and ensuring clients understand our value proposition; and the rollout of our Aon Broking platform to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk in any geography around the globe.
In HR Solutions we continue to strengthen our industry-leading position in both public and corporate healthcare exchanges enabling clients to prepare for ultimate changes in healthcare legislation with design purchasing administrative capability.
We're expanding our capability in investment management consulting as highlighted by the acquisition of EnnisKnupp.
This complements our incredibly strong U.K.
business creating an industry leader with over $4.3 trillion in assets under advisement.
We're expanding our international footprint as the workforce is increasingly becoming more global with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia.
And finally we're continuing to invest in expanding our core HR BPO offering and platforms including the use of new social media channels.
In addition to our focus on our core BPO business we're also continuing to expand add-on benefits in HR Solutions that have shown significant growth in the last 2 years.
In summary across Risk Solutions and HR Solutions our fundamental client-serving capability continues to substantially strengthen around the globe.
These investments fully funded in the context of long-term margin improvement position Aon very well to take advantage of an improving global economy and a long-term growth opportunity we see across our markets.
Finally on the third topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue was plus 2% a continuation of the positives trend we saw in the prior quarter and a solid start to the year despite soft pricing excess capital and fragile economic conditions globally.
Against these headwinds which were primarily market-related we're driving a set of initiatives that continue to strengthen our underlying performance and give us confidence that our Risk Solutions business is firmly positioned for long-term growth and leveraged in an improving economy.
We have strong management of our renewable book portfolios with Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
Strong new business generation of more than  $200 million across our Retail business with double-digit new business growth across many markets including France Italy Asia Africa New Zealand and Canada just to name a few highlighting the strength of our global client-serving capability.
Investments in new product and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP Client Promise and Impact on Demand.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic growth was plus 4%.
We saw a strong growth in Latin America and in our Affinity products modest growth in U.S.
Retail despite continued pressure from pricing which is down low single-digits on average and a weakness in major sectors such as construction.
On the international front organic revenue growth was plus 3%.
We saw a strong growth across Asia and New Zealand driven by a solid client retention and new business activity.
We have modest growth in the U.K.
Retail side and EMEA as exposures are generally stable.
We're recognizing the economic conditions remain fragile across the region.
In Reinsurance organic revenue was flat.
Results reflect a modest improvement from a minus 1% in the prior quarter.
Growth in facultative placements were offset primarily by higher CD retentions continued soft pricing in the U.S.
for treaty placements.
And despite significant industry losses in international in the first quarter we believe excess capacity globally will continue to drive soft pricing globally albeit at a moderately lesser rate of decline.
Given these industry conditions for Treaty business and the transactional orientation nature of the facultative placements and capital advisory we'd expect the trends on our Reinsurance business to be fairly similar for the foreseeable future.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue was flat similar to the prior quarter as price compression in Benefits Admin continued and fragile economic conditions placed pressure on corporate discretionary spend and global unemployment trends.
Against these headwinds which are primarily market-related we're driving a set of initiatives that continues to strengthen our underlying performance and gives us confidence that our HR Solutions business is firmly positioned for long-term growth and leverage in an improving economy with a high degree of recurring revenue across HR Solutions with strong renewal rates highlighting strong client satisfaction.
Solid business generation of over 100 new client wins including more than 10 new large and mid-market Benefits Admin wins and a very significant win with a large leading financial institution in HR BPO.
And continued investments in new product and service capabilities in emerging markets such as investment management consulting healthcare exchanges and international markets.
Turning to the individual businesses on the HR Solutions side.
In Consulting Services organic revenue increased 4%.
The results reflect the modest improvements in the prior quarter.
Solid growth in international health and benefits and human capital consulting was partially offset by the impact of weaker economic conditions in the U.S.
retirement consulting.
In Outsourcing organic revenue decreased 3%.
Anticipated price depression and a modest decline in project-related revenue in Benefits Administration was partially offset by new client wins and growth in point solutions revenue and the HR Business Process Outsourcing business.
Excluding the $14 million favorable impact relating to deferred revenue by Hewitt in the prior quarter organic revenue Outsourcing would have been flat compared to the prior year quarter.
Most important I wanted to provide a brief update on the progress of Aon Hewitt.
First our teams are working exceptionally well together to support clients and client disruption has been basically nonexistent.
As an example 8 new Benefits Administration clients went live on January 1 and 2 large HR BPO clients are ramping up with all systems go and implementation proceeding exceptionally well.
The leadership team is being particularly sensitive to all the normal issues that arise out there and they're listening very carefully and working hard to respond to feedback from our colleagues around the world.
And we're deeply engaged with key talent across the businesses to ensure we're building a solid foundation for long-term growth.
Second new business wins across Aon Hewitt continue to be exceptional across middle market large corporate and Fortune 100 clients with Aon Hewitt having already secured a number of new business wins across multiple product lines as clients fully recognize the breadth and depth of Aon Hewitt's products and services capability.
Lastly the integration activities are largely complete.
We are fully on track to deliver the $355 million of synergy savings in 2013 as well as our committed savings in 2011.
And Christa will provide an update on this shortly.
With the integration work set we're focused on growing and building Aon Hewitt for the future.
It's a very exciting time for all of our team.
In summary of our first quarter results we're delivering solid underlying progress against the key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Events occurring in Japan Australia New Zealand our pending healthcare reform in the U.S just to name a few only reinforce the needs of our clients and the significant long-term growth opportunities for Aon as the industry leader in both Risk and HR Solutions.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our first quarter results reflect continued progress to strengthen our industry-leading position and client-serving capabilities across risk and people.
We are firmly on track for growth in 2011.
Against that we're managing expenses delivering savings from our restructuring program and effectively allocating capital as highlighted by the repurchase of $350 million in common stock in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the results for the first quarter.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items is $0.80 per share for the first quarter compared to $0.83 in the prior-year quarter as the inclusion of Hewitt results including a $61 million increase in intangible amortization expense and a higher effective tax rate offset strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 include: $30 million of restructuring charges primarily related to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program and $15 million of transaction-related Hewitt costs.
Lastly there were 2 items not adjusted for in the core results including $19 million or $0.04 of lease termination costs and facility exits in France and an unfavorable impact of $0.02 related to foreign currency translation.
Now let me talk about each of the segments.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 2% and we've delivered an operating margin of 19% on an adjusted basis down 150 basis points from the prior-year quarter.
Our operating performance for the quarter was primarily impacted by 3 items: First as noted above we incurred $19 million of lease termination costs or 110 basis point impact for facility exits in France that were not part of the formal restructuring program; second foreign currency translation primarily resulting from a weaker euro versus the U.S.
dollar unfavorably impacted margin by approximately 60 basis points; lastly lower investment income impacted margin by 10 basis points.
These 3 items largely nonrecurring or macro-related unfavorably impacted margin by 180 basis points in the quarter.
Excluding these items our underlying performance for the quarter continues to demonstrate strong operational discipline and underlying structural margin improvement positioning the segment for greater operating leverage long term as growth and economic conditions continue to improve around the globe.
Let me spend a moment on each of the restructuring programs key initiatives that are enabling concurrent funding of investments and delivering long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the 2007 restructuring program we have incurred 100% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the first quarter are estimated at $134 million compared to $110 million in the prior-year quarter.
Approximately $113 million of savings were related to Risk Solutions segment primarily for workforce reduction.
With respect to the Aon Benfield restructuring program we incurred $7 million of charges in the quarter and have now incurred 92% of the $155 million of total costs necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the first quarter are estimated at $29 million compared to $22 million in the prior year quarter.
Overall we are ahead of schedule on our 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring program.
We have completed nearly 100% of the charges as of the end of the first quarter yet we still have approximately $48 million of incremental Risk Solutions savings still to achieve under these 2 programs between now and the end of 2011.
The following 3 areas of margin opportunity are within our control and continue to cross firmly on track towards delivering our long-term margin target of 25% in Risk Solutions: number one operational efficiency and the remaining restructuring savings; number two the continued rollout of the revenue engine; and number three Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external market.
An improving global economy in areas such as employment levels asset values and corporate revenues will drive leverage through exposure growth along with every 100 basis point rise in short-term interest rates delivers roughly $35 million to $40 million to the bottom line.
And lastly improvements in insurance pricing.
We are on track for delivering our long-term margin target of 25% for Risk Solutions.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue was flat and we delivered an adjusted operating margin of 14.4% as the results reflect the merger with Hewitt including a $61 million increase in intangible asset amortization expense.
To further assess the underlying performance of operating income and margin in the segment we believe it's useful to add together results for both Aon Consulting and Hewitt in the prior-year quarter to form your starting point of analysis.
For example if we take Hewitt's adjusted operating income of $123 million plus $56 million for Aon Consulting your combined total is $179 million of operating income as reported for the prior year quarter.
If we subtract additional intangible amortization expense of $61 million this leaves an underlying $118 million of operating income.
Compared to the $161 million we reported in the first quarter the increase in operating income reflects savings related to the restructuring program additional synergy savings and other operational improvements.
Essentially we believe that strong operating income growth on flat organic revenue implies solid operating margin expansion in the HR Solutions segment.
Lastly for the HR Solutions segment I wanted to briefly comment on the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $23 million of charges in the quarter primarily for workforce reduction.
The Aon Hewitt restructuring plan is expected to result in cumulative cost of $325 million through the end of the plan primarily encompassing $180 million in workforce reduction and $145 million in real estate rationalization costs.
Cash costs are expected to be approximately $275 million.
Savings related to the restructuring program in the first quarter are estimated at $24 million with additional synergy savings achieved outside of the formal restructuring program.
We expect to deliver total annual savings of $355 million in 2013 including approximately $280 million of annual savings related to restructuring programs and additional savings in areas such as information technology procurement and public company costs.
We are on track to deliver $243 million of annual savings in 2011.
These savings are the first of 3 key drivers for delivering our long-term operating margin target of 20% in HR Solutions.
The other 2 key drivers are growth in the core business including HR BPO improvement and declining intangible amortization expense beginning in 2013.
Now let me discuss certain line items outside of the operating segment.
Interest expense increased $29 million due to an increase in the average amount of debt outstanding following the merger with Hewitt.
Other income in the quarter was $17 million including a $9 million gain related to sale of certain investments and $7 million related to distributions from certain private equity securities.
Going forward for these items we would expect a run rate of approximately $5 million per quarter of interest income $35 million of unallocated expense and $65 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on continuing operations increased to 29% compared to 24.9% in the prior-year quarter due primarily to changes in the geographic mix of income following the merger with Hewitt.
The prior-year quarter was favorably impacted by certain deferred tax adjustments.
Going forward we will continue to anticipate an underlying tax credit on continuing operations of 30% for 2011.
Turning to shares.
Average diluted shares outstanding increased to 345.4 million in the first quarter compared to 283.4 million in the prior-year quarter due primarily to the issuance of 61 million shares of common stock related to the merger with Hewitt partially offset by the company's share repurchase program.
Actual common shares outstanding on March 31 were 330.5 million compared to 332.3 million at December 31.
There are approximately 14 million diluted profit equivalents.
The company has approximately $1.7 billion remaining under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2010.
Now let me turn to the balance sheet.
At March 31 cash and short-term investments were $1.3 billion and total debt outstanding increased to $4.9 billion.
Included in these figures is approximately $377 million of cash that was used to fully repay $375 million of Canadian debt due April 2011.
Post this transaction we had roughly $900 million of cash and short-term investments and $4.5 billion of total debt similar to December 31.
Per requirements of our outstanding $1 billion term loan we expect to pay down $100 million of the term loan debt in 2011.
In summary we delivered 2% organic revenue placing us firmly on track for growth in 2011 despite fragile economic conditions and a continued soft market.
We continue to strategically invest in long-term growth opportunities and are well underway with the integration of Hewitt.
We are managing expenses driving operational initiatives across both segments and fully on track to achieve our long-term operating margin targets.
We have significant leverage to an improving global economy.
Our balance sheet and strong cash flow continue to provide significant financial flexibility to deliver increased shareholder value as highlighted by the repurchase of $350 million of common stock in the quarter.
With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we'd be delighted to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
My first question and I have a follow-up after that.
My first question relates to the Risk Solutions segment and the expenses there.
So even when I adjust for the FX and the lease termination and despite the 3% improvement in the comp and benefit expenses the adjusted operating income was still flat year-over-year.
So I was hoping to get a little more color on what I guess is organic revenue growth related expenses? And maybe how we should think about it going forward? Yes.
So I think as we look at our Risk Solutions margin we believe that we have underlying Risk Solutions margin expansion in the quarter after we adjust for the onetime lease termination payment in France that's 110 basis points and the FX and investment income impact of 70 basis points that's 180 basis points which if you then adjust for that it's 30 basis point improvement year-over-year.
We do believe that we continue to sort of drive a structural operational improvement in our business which is leading to long-term margin expansion both over the course of the year and towards our long-term 25% margin target.
But wasn't that improvement that you were just talking about it all came from the compensation expense side and it's pretty much offset by the other expenses in a scalable business or what I thought was a scalable business.
Yes so I mean I think there are a couple of onetime items in the quarter which are really sort of meaning that we're not getting quite the level of margin expansion we would excluding those onetime items.
Okay.
And then on the HR Solutions side could you maybe talk a little bit about the pension business? Do you see it coming back at some point maybe to the point where it starts getting like 2% 4% 5% organic growth again for a longer period? And do you think that's possible without a regulatory change? We see a tremendous opportunity across the HR Solutions business from a growth standpoint.
And in fact if you just reflect on sort of the last few years in which what's happened in the U.S.
economy and the global economy on that front the business has actually helped serve quite well.
And during that time we made substantial investments to sort of build for the future long-term growth and we see a number of those items actually coming to pass now as we think about what's going on.
When you just think about what's going on in the overall retirement market right now and what's needed to think about pensions and retirement across an employee base that demand is going up not down and we're incredibly well-positioned for that.
The same on the healthcare side when you think about what's happening in the healthcare in the U.S.
right now just as one example but you can actually talk about it around the world and the demand for advice in the context of reducing healthcare costs is actually going up.
So we actually see lots of opportunity for growth across the HR Solutions business whether it's on the retirement side the investment advice side the admin side.
So we're very optimistic about how we think that's going to evolve over the next couple of years.
Next Brian Meredith UBS.
A couple of questions here.
Greg first one I was hoping you could chat a little bit more what's going on in the Outsourcing business.
We've been hearing from some of the carriers that they're starting to see some exposure growth out of the comp business and I'm just curious why you're not seeing it translate into the Outsourcing business as well.
Yes.
So Brian I think one of the things we're seeing in our sort of HR Solutions business in Outsourcing in particular is they're very long-term contracts.
And so we absolutely sort of expect long-term growth in that business and as we've said before with 5 to 7 years sort of average contract length in the HR BPO business we can see the next 4 years of revenue and EBITDA growth.
And so absolutely we see the structural sort of forces you're describing.
They just take time to flow through given the long-term sort of contract nature in that business.
So changes in employment don't have an immediate impact? Changes in employment absolutely do.
And we have huge potential upside from changes in employment and they do flow through and get trued up on a monthly basis.
Okay.
So we haven't seen that yet I guess is what's happening here? Absolutely.
So we expect that Bryan on the horizon.
And again that will come through faster than in the U.K.
For example on the risk side you see rates come through so that's a much more direct impact.
Okay.
And then also just curious on cash flows in the quarter I mean share buyback was greater than I was expecting.
You had some cautionary remarks on cash flows in I think last quarter on kind of the timing.
I'm curious why the level of share buyback was great but why was it bigger in this quarter? Should we expect a big slow down coming forward? Yes.
So I think as we think about sort of share buyback going forward I'd look at sort of cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet which I would observe post the Canadian debt is down from $1.2 billion at year-end to $900 million x the Canadian debt.
And so we have used up excess cash in the quarter.
And I would say going forward as we think about share buyback Q4 is more of sort of a good run rate to use than the Q1 number.
Because really what we've done there is we've got some excess cash on the balance sheet as well as operating cash flow.
Overall Bryan look at our investments on the buyback side as Christa has described before on the call reflecting sort of our view on where we are and the opportunity on return on invested capital.
And we're just very very positive on our current position and the opportunity against it and that reflects our investment.
Next question Meyer Shields Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just want to follow up on Yaron's question with regard to retirement.
Did we see within the U.S.
a general trend towards later retirement for whatever reason skepticism on Social Security or whatever would that have a negative impact on -- or does that conform with your expectations and what's the estimated long-term impact on insurance and healthcare? No.
In fact again back kind of fundamental principles of sort of what's going on across really the overall HR Solutions business in total whether it's on the retirement or pension side or whether it's on the healthcare side we actually see demand for advice in that business which is really what we do exceptionally well going up.
And in fact because the costs are going up the demand for high-quality execution which is also what we're capable of doing in the Outsourcing businesses is actually going up.
So we are very very bullish on sort to the fundamental underpinnings of what drives our HR Solutions business both on the advice side as well as on the execution side.
I mean as an example I was with a client last week just talking about their current situation and look they're essentially talking about how they can think about supporting their employees for overall retirement and actually delivering on a sort of promises that are helping their employees deliver on a set of commitments that they've really made over time.
And our advice in the context of what's going on in the current marketplace is vital to them both in terms of how they actually execute it but also in terms of how they do it in a cost-effective way and that same argument holds true on the health and benefits side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And a couple of quick modeling questions if I can.
When would be the expected share issuance of compensation over the course of the year? And the second would be the ramp up of the $200 million or so in expected too of related savings sort of over the balance of that one.
Right.
So on the share issuance share issuance in the form of stock compensation has been coming down over the last couple years.
We would expect around 8 million shares over the course of 2011.
Q1 is always the highest because that's when we issue shares related to our sort of major compensation program.
And then your second question the ramp-up of savings.
So we have said that we are on track to deliver $243 million of total savings.
That's comprised of restructuring savings plus other non-restructuring savings.
You saw $24 million of restructuring savings plus other additional synergies in the quarter.
As we complete projects the savings will ramp up during the course of the year to that $243 million total number.
But Meyer we are fully on track as Christa described both in the overall game plan for 2011 as well as I described for the $355 million in 2013.
Just the teams have just done a magnificent job coming together and really identifying the projects getting those behind us and really focusing Aon Hewitt very much on future growth.
But on the savings side have just done a terrific terrific job.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> No I understand that and that's helpful.
I'm just trying to sort of use the methodology you talked with summing Aon Hewitt's operating income subtracting the increased amortization and then adding back the savings and then trying to get a handle on the seasonality of the...
Would you like the -- so the baseline for the numbers in terms of how to think about the starting point and sort of seasonality of our business.
So seasonality of our revenue overall Q4 is our strongest revenue quarter followed by Q1 and then Q2 and Q3 sort of on the revenue front.
If you think about the starting point for the HR Solutions operating income for Q2 if you take the Aon Consulting operating income number of $47 million you add in the Hewitt operating income number of $105 million from Q2 2010 that gets you to $152 million Meyer.
Then you get subtract the $61 million of amortization expense that gets you to a $91 million operating income starting point for Q2.
And you can do a similar math for Q3 2011 taking the numbers from Q3 2010 Aon Consulting $55 million Hewitt $115 million that gets you to $170 million less the amortization expense of $61 million gets you to $109 million starting point in operating income for Q3 2011.
Next question Dan Farrell Sterne Agee.
You guys obviously in the brokerage segment have taken out a lot of expenses over the last few years.
And importantly I think you've been very disciplined in putting some of the savings back into the business.
I'm wondering as those expense savings are ramping down is there still a need to keep reinvesting? And I then also wonder if we're in an environment that's only modest organic growth with the margin expansion that we think we might see be a little more muted because of ongoing stuff getting put back into the business.
Look Dan I'd take a step back you're absolutely right.
If you think about sort of what we've done over the last number of years we've literally laid out a game plan and executed as cleanly as we could against our game plan which was to invest in our business build for long-term organic growth and also do it in a way simultaneously that we build margin over time.
And I will just reflect as you think about your question and some previous questions around the margin front you think about the track record over the course of the last 5 years.
We've increased margin 530 basis points from 15% and change to 20% plus and we have a game plan in place to drive that to 25% as we said before.
The 25% really is fundamentally driven by 5 specific areas where we believe there will be real improvement: The restructuring and you're absolutely right it's ramping down but there's still $48 million left in that.
What we're doing with the revenue engine and how we think about bringing in new clients and increasing share with those clients.
What we're doing with the Global Risk Insight Platform which is literally fundamentally helping us increase yield per dollar of premium placed.
But obviously some of the things that are in less our control as Christa has described before on interest rates and the overall GDP situation.
But we absolutely see that track that's driving the 25%.
The first quarter has done nothing for us except underpin that we are on track to achieve that.
And we've by the way done it in environments in which growth was flat or negative.
Now that growth is picking up and we're confident we're seeing that we are even more positive in terms of being able to both achieve organic growth and grow the margins to 25%.
And many of the investments we've made over the course of the last few years are just beginning to really kick in and pay off as I described before be it revenue engine efforts GRIP or Client Promise et cetera.
So look we feel very good about the progress and we're just going to keep marching forward against the game plan we set in place.
And as I said Q1 has done nothing but underscore that we are on track to do that and whether it's on the risk side or the HR Solutions side.
Is there a level of organic that you think you need to achieve the 25%? And I realize there's other headwinds below interest rate environment and other things that could help as well over time but is there a type of organic level in your mind that you think you have to sort of have on a run rate to get to that point? There really isn't.
Obviously we're about growing our business and building our business over time.
So we're absolutely focused on doing that.
But we've reflected on these calls before we absolutely don't need insurance pricing in the context of growing our business.
And again we've looked at over the last 5 years we've been able to grow.
Most of the years we've certainly been able to improve margin and we've done that in an environment obviously that's got soft insurance pricing a very negative economy low interest rates et cetera.
And we absolutely have the game plan in place to continue to drive and do that.
Obviously growth and some of the external factors can really help accelerate that and can bring the 25% to us much more quickly.
But irrespective of what happens on the items outside our control we intend to get to a 25% margin.
Next question Jay Gelb Barclays Capital.
I wanted to touch base on the Reinsurance Brokerage business.
You had a nice uptick in organic growth in the first quarter versus 4Q.
And I'm trying to understand the implications of the impact on the massive Asia Pacific Reinsurance losses going forward on what that means for Aon's organic revenue growth as well as margins.
And alongside of that Aon recently put out a report talking about pretty dampened expectations for the U.S.
midyear property Reinsurance renewals so I was hoping you could expand a bit on that because the reinsurers are talking it up a bit more.
Yes Jay absolutely have to talk about it.
Really 2 questions in the context of sort of what we're doing there.
One as it relates to Aon Benfield and agree with you our colleagues are doing a great job as we continue to build in that platform we believe is a very unique platform in the world today with Aon Benfield and our position on the treaty side number one in the world number one in facultative number one in the capital markets world et cetera.
And a very strong platform and we're improving in that.
I would say in the first quarter factually the market had a negative impact on us it was negative 1% as you think about what we were able to deliver on flat organic growth market impact was negative 1% and so overall we haven't seen the impact that you've described.
And as we go forward through the year we expect it to be a lot of the same obviously we're reacting to the trauma around world and supporting our clients but we see more of the same.
In the context of your second quarter in the broader pricing environment look there's always going to be a lot of discussion.
It's obviously an important topic for our clients critical for our clients.
We observe it on 2 sides; one is you think about Q1 literally what happened and then sort of think about what the go forward is going to look like.
And we base our observations very much on a couple of things.
One is the Aon Benfield team with those great analytics really we believe world-class analytics around this as well as what happens and the observations we take on the specific data out of GRIP the Global Risk Insight Platform.
And thats now got 1 million trades on it over $50 billion in premiums.
So we literally look at that fact-based.
And in the context of that Jay literally rates were down 2% to 5% in the first quarter and that's just factually what they were.
It impacted our Retail book negatively.
It impacted our Reinsurance book as I described before.
And on the go forward what we've essentially said is assuming no new events capital availability will remain at surplus levels it just will and as a result it's going to continue to support a pretty competitive market.
Obviously we recognize that there a lot of important very important critical regional events that have occurred around the world.
And accordingly theres going to be price increase in those areas.
And certainly in these affected areas in some cases it will be substantial increases.
But and we also recognize by the way to your point there's more pressure on the system than ever before around rate declines.
But overall the facts indicate that unless there's another event or series of events the industry's going to have excess capital and that that remaining supply demand imbalance is going to continue to put downward pressure on price.
Particularly in the non-affected areas which happen to be in this case much much larger than the affected areas.
In the example you described on the Reinsurance analysis what our colleagues have done is literally calculate it bottom up literally brick by brick the capital in the industry.
And it's roughly $470 billion as of the year-end 2010 which was a 17% increase over 2009.
It really is that supply/demand imbalance Jay that's led us to basically say "Look there's clearly less slack in the system than maybe there has been for a long time " but we see that supply demand imbalance remaining at a reasonable level.
And I would just finally say our GRIP data suggests that if you sort of looked at our pipeline over the next 30 60 90 days and it also indicates continued decreases in price.
Albeit at a lower level want to make sure I'm highlighting that.
It's a lower level but not the turns that others have talked about.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Its very helpful Greg.
And just on GRIP are you talking about primary commercial as well as Reinsurance? Or just...
Well the GRIP really is primary commercial.
So I'm trying to give you 2 perspectives one on the Reinsurance side and one on the primary side given the importance of the topic.
And GRIP literally look at it as 1 million trades it's not the market but it literally is our entire market.
So and it's pretty extrapolatable to the overall market and its the specific data which shows exactly what happened in the first quarter and then it literally has all the indications in it for the foreseeable future.
And that $470 billion you're saying that's dedicated Reinsurance capital globally? Yes exactly.
The analysis by the way happy to send it to you you can also access it on our website is we did our level best to identify dedicated Reinsurance capital around the world and that's how we got to the $470 billion.
Next question Matt Heimermann JPMorgan.
Couple questions just specifically in HR Solutions on the traditional Consulting side I'm just curious if you could maybe break down what you're seeing in terms of growth between maybe the less discretionary lines which I would think about being kind of health and benefits actuarial investment Consulting and then the discretionary of kind of talent compensation leadership? Well essentially we're actually seeing growth across the board but what you do see is the areas that were really impacted by the economy talent comp et cetera those are really beginning to bounce back.
We see that as very positive.
Things that involved Matt discretionary spend during the last few years have really been under pressure.
Our colleagues have done a great job in those businesses but now as the economy has leveled off or even in some cases looks like it might even be coming back a bit we're seeing real upticks in those businesses.
And the others that were actually holding a bit more during the downturn are doing just fine but they don't see as much of an uptick.
Okay.
And so as we think about what might happen with growth there it's more likely we should think about those discretionary areas pulling the growth rate up more so than much of a change in the other areas? Well in the other areas it'll just be more gradual in the other areas.
The uptick will be more acute and more positive on the areas that involve discretionary spend but we're investing to see it in both sides.
And we've got again great capability on both sides and we see positive movement really on the discretionary and some of the things that were more recurring.
Okay.
And then if we kind of dovetail that same question into Outsourcing with respect to project revenues is it fair to think about the timeline there maybe being a little bit drawn out than what we might see in some of the discretionary areas in the Consulting side? That's right Matt because of the long-term nature of the contract.
The only thing I would note is as employment levels increase they do flow through the Outsourcing contracts with a month lag.
And so employment levels have significant upside leverage to that revenue base.
The project related sort of revenue year-over-year will stabilize really in Q2.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a couple numbers questions if I could just Christa just the pension expense or benefit in the quarter.
And then also can you just tell us what the common outstanding shares were at the end of the quarter? So the pension expense for the year Matt it's down slightly in 2010.
And it's roughly the same per quarter is the way I think about it.
And then contribution levels on pension we did say were about $400 million for the year and again roughly equal by quarter.
And then common shares outstanding were 330.5 million as at March 31.
Next question Dan Johnson Citadel.
You mentioned that in your prepared remarks your outlook on the Reinsurance business.
I can't recall the exact word you used but I didn't think it implied much change from the current level of I think we put up a 0 this quarter.
Is that characterization correct? Well I think Dan I would say we're continuing to build and working to grow that business.
But we essentially characterize it as sort of over the next 12 months sort of roughly positive but we did not dramatically positive.
Sure.
That sounds like a decent uptick from last quarter where I think it was minus one but the expectations were for something that looked a little bit more like 2010 which was a minus 3.
If all this math is right what sort of led to I guess I'll call it an improvement in the outlook? Well listen getting back we've been try to pretty measured about this and will always do that as is our practice.
We believe we'll see continued improvement here.
I wouldn't say it's a dramatic change.
It's really sort of roughly the overall same outlook.
Again as we said before certain aspects of the business on the fact side and on the capital markets side Cap bond et cetera tend to be a bit lumpy so it sometimes a little more positive and little negative and we'll highlight that in the process.
But essentially this is a business in which we think demand is going to continue to increase.
The events around the world have actually highlighted that.
And it will be reflected in our overall business.
But we just see solid progress for 2011.
Okay.
And then in terms of the Brokerage margins do you have any visibility on any further sort of one-timers if you will like we saw this quarter with the lease termination? We really don't and I would highlight again on the lease termination in France for us that really for us was just an investment in our colleagues around the world.
This is something that in the context of what we're trying to do with Aon united and really bring our global firm together deliver for our clients in a very local way.
Our colleagues in France have just done a remarkable job Robert Le Blanc Laurent Michel and all the colleagues there have done a great job and really it's an investment we wanted to make to get our business back closer into kind of central Paris.
And it's something we talked about for quite some time and we believe that it's is going to help our business long term.
And we made the investment.
We always do that to strengthen our business and our business lets us make these investments and absorb it and that's exactly what we did in the context of Q1.
And we don't see anything more on the horizon but I wanted you to understand why we did it and the psychology behind it.
Yes understood.
And then last quick one on the commission compliance efforts I forgot exactly which program that falls under but any update you could add there as to sort of how that has helped profitability versus what you think it could do and sort of maybe what inning we're in I guess in that effort? Great question.
This really relates back to kind of Aon Broking so if you really think about how we're going to grow our business we're going to take a number of steps to really bring new clients in and get a greater share of wallet with them a la what were doing on the revenue engine in Client Promise.
And then we're also going to work to in the context of that as we get them the best deals out there in the world best terms and conditions best price we're also going to work to make sure we get a fair and appropriate kind of yield per dollar of premium placed.
And that really is our Aon Broking effort.
That's what you're describing.
And we're in the early innings of that still.
In the 9-inning baseball game if you want to use that analogy we're kind of still in the third or fourth inning early innings it's beginning to actually have some benefit for us.
We're excited about that.
We can see how that's going to play out for us over time in a very positive way but that's really still early innings and but we're quite excited about it.
That combination of new clients and again we had a great great quarter from a new client new business standpoint grew at 11% across the board which is fantastic for us feel good about that.
Very good on the retention side and we think this one you're describing or highlighting Dan is a very important one for us as we continue to increase yield per dollar of premium placed.
And you see it as a contributor to 2011 profitability or is this more of a 2012 and beyond sort of effort? No we see it as having meaningful impact as we get into the second half of 2011 and then really kicking in in '12 and '13.
Our last question comes from Scott Scher Clovis Capital.
All my questions have been answered.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just wanted to say to all of our investors and partners on the phone thanks for taking part and we appreciate your support in Aon.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our second quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Corporation.
Sir you may begin Thank you and good morning to everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
To begin our second quarter results reflect continued progress with solid growth in our Retail Brokerage business delivery of synergy savings related to Aon Hewitt and the repurchase of more than 300 million of common stock.
Consistent with our messages on previous calls irrespective of the stock market economic conditions or other challenges outside our control we continue to execute on our strategy to substantially strengthen and unite Aon around the globe.
Also consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review:  First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is continued areas of investment across Aon; and third is overall organic growth performance.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
In the second quarter organic growth was plus 1% highlighted by solid growth in our Retail Brokerage business placing us firmly on track for growth in 2011.
Adjusted operating margin decreased 220 basis points driven by the inclusion of Hewitt results including a significant increase in intangible amortization expense.
EPS increased 2% to $0.83 driven by strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
Overall our team views the underlying second quarter results as a quarter of continued progress as we strengthen the firm for long-term growth and value creation.
On the second topic further areas of investments.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions we're invested in innovative technology such as our Global Risk Insight Platform which delivers unmatched data and analytics new revenue opportunities and greater insights into our commission yields across $54 billion of premium flow globally.
We're also investing in additional capability and talent as well as strengthening our international footprint through recently completed acquisitions such as Glenrand in South Africa which solidifies our position as the largest broker on the continent of Africa.
We're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the revenue engine in EMEA and Asia Pacific the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention rates and ensuring clients understand our value proposition and the rollout of our Aon Broking platform to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk in any geography around the globe.
In HR Solutions we continue to strengthen our industry-leading position in both public and corporate healthcare exchanges enabling clients to prepare for ultimate changes in healthcare legislation with design purchasing and administration capability.
We're expanding our capability in investment management consulting as highlighted by the acquisition of EnnisKnupp complementing our incredibly strong U.K.
business with over $4.3 trillion in combined assets under advisement.
And we're expanding our international footprint as the workplace is increasingly becoming more global with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia.
Finally we're continuing to invest in expanding our core HR BPO offerings through point solution opportunity such as dependent eligibility audits and assets management.
In summary across Risk Solutions and HR Solutions our fundamental client-serving capability continues to substantially strengthen around the globe.
These investments fully funded in the context of long-term margin improvement position Aon very well to take advantage of an improving global economy and a long-term growth opportunity we see across our markets.
Finally on the third topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue was plus 2% a continuation of the positive trends we saw in the prior quarter despite soft pricing excess capital and fragile economic conditions globally.
Against these headwinds which are primarily market-related we're driving a set of initiatives that continue to strengthen our underlying performance and give us confidence that our Risk Solutions business is firmly positioned for long-term growth and leveraged to an improving economy.
With management of our renewable book portfolio through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation more than $240 million across our Retail business with strong growth in many markets including China Africa Australia New Zealand Italy Denmark and U.S.
Retail just to a name a few highlighting the strength of our global client-serving capability and investments in new products and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP Client Promise and Impact on Demand and global growth in treaty reinsurance driven primarily by net new business.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was plus 3%.
Pricing continues to be soft down low-single digits on average with relatively stable exposure units.
But in spite of this headwind we saw strong growth in both Latin America and in our Affinity products partially offset by a modest decline in U.S.
Retail and continued sector weakness in areas such as construction.
However for construction despite continued weakness in this important sector our team delivered a strong quarter of improved performance led by strength in the commercial surety business.
We've got a great platform and a great team we plan to keep investing behind to position this business for substantial long-term growth.
On the international front organic revenue growth is plus 3%.
Pricing continues to be flat to modestly down on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions.
We saw strong growth in New Zealand and across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as Thailand China and Japan driven primarily by new business activity.
We have modest growth in U.K.
Retail and EMEA as exposures are generally stable but economic conditions remain fragile across the region.
In Reinsurance organic revenue declined 2%.
However in the core book of Reinsurance global treaty revenue drove a 2% increase in total organic revenue.
The first quarter of growth in treaty Reinsurance since Q2 of 2009 driven primarily by improved trends in new business and less impact on the pricing side.
Capital advisory and facultative placements which are very much more transaction-driven drove a 4% decline in total organic revenue as the prior year quarter included significant activity related to cap on  [ph] placements.
As we reflect on the merger with Benfield the transaction continues to perform better than our original expectations as the first 2 years were not as much about growth but about strengthening an unparalleled reinsurance platform with unmatched data and analytics while delivering on the economics of the transaction including $122 million in synergy savings that remain well ahead of the original schedule.
We remain confident and excited about our capability in Aon Benfield.
From a pricing perspective despite significant industry loss experience in the first half we believe excess capacity globally will continue to drive soft pricing albeit at a moderately lesser rate of decline with firmer pricing in certain cat-exposed regions.
Given these industry conditions for treaty business and the transactional orientation nature of the capital advisory and facultative placements we would expect the trends in Reinsurance in the second half to modestly improve from the results in the second quarter.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue was flat a modest improvement from the prior quarter as fragile economic conditions placed pressure on corporate discretionary budgets and global unemployment trends.
Against these headwinds which are primarily market-related we are again driving a set of initiatives that continue to strengthen our underlying performance and give us confidence that our HR Solutions business is firmly positioned for long-term growth and leverage through an improving economy with a high degree of recurring revenue across HR Solutions with strong renewal rates highlighting strong client satisfaction; solid new business generation with over 150 wins including more than 20 new mid-market benefits administration wins and a very significant recent win in a leading large financial institution in HR BPO; and continued investments in international and emerging markets and in products and services such as investment management consulting and healthcare exchanges.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In Consulting Services organic revenue was flat and the results reflect the modest decline from the prior quarter as fragile economic trends globally placed pressure on unemployment and discretionary spend.
Solid growth in global compensation and investment management consulting was offset by impact of weak economic conditions in U.S.
retirement and health and benefits consulting.
And we'd expect modest organic growth in the second half similar to the first half.
In Outsourcing organic revenue was flat and results reflect the modest improvement from the prior quarter.
We saw a growth from new client wins in both Benefits Administration and HR BPO as well as growth from point solutions in areas such as dependent eligibility verification.
And we would expect flat to modest organic growth in the second half a continued improvement from the first half.
In summary of our second quarter results we're delivering solid underlying progress against the key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Events occurring in Japan Australia New Zealand; our pending Health Care Reform in the U.S.
just to name a few major developments only reinforce the needs of our clients and the significant long-term growth opportunities for Aon as the industry leader in both Risk and HR Solutions.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thanks very much Greg.
Good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our second quarter results reflect continued progress to strengthen our industry-leading position and client-serving capabilities across risk and people.
We are firmly on track for growth in 2011.
Against that we're managing expenses delivering savings from our restructuring program and effectively allocating capital as highlighted by the repurchase of $303 million in common stock in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the results from the second quarter.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items was $0.83 per share for the second quarter up 2% compared to $0.81 per share in the prior year quarter as the inclusion of Hewitt results combined with strong underlying performance and effective capital management more than offset a $62 million increase in intangible amortization expense and shares issued in the prior year for the Hewitt acquisition.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 include: a noncash charge of $19 million resulting from the accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs associated with the repaid term credit agreement $14 million of restructuring charges and $5 million of transaction-related Hewitt costs.
Lastly there were 2 items not adjusted for that are helpful in understanding the core results.
First a $16 million of other expense or $0.04 for reoccupying vacated leasehold properties in the U.K.
and remaining lease termination costs for facility exits in France.
And second foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of $0.03.
If currency were to remain stable at todays rates we would expect a modest favorable impact to EPS in the second half.
Now let me talk about each of the segments.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 2% and we've delivered an operating margin of 19.6% on an adjusted basis down 140 basis points from the prior year quarter.
Our operating performance for the quarter was primarily impacted by 3 items.
First as noted above we incurred $16 million of lease-related costs or a 90-basis point impact that we do not expect to recur going forward.
Second low investment income impacted margin by 30 basis points.
And lastly foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted margin by 20 basis points primarily resulting from a weaker U.S.
dollar versus the pound.
These 3 items largely nonrecurring or macro-related unfavorably impacted margins by 140 basis points in the second quarter.
Excluding these items our underlying performance for the quarter continues to demonstrate strong operational discipline and underlying structural margin improvement in a modest organic growth environment positioning the segment for greater operating leverage long term as economic conditions continue to improve around the globe.
Let me spend a moment on each of our restructuring programs key initiatives that are enabling concurrent funding and investments and delivering long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the 2007 restructuring program we have incurred 100% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the second quarter are estimated $134 million compared to $113 million in the prior year quarter.
Approximately $113 million of the savings were related to the Risk Solutions segment primarily for workforce reduction.
With respect to the Aon Benfield restructuring program we have incurred 95% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the second quarter are estimated at $30 million compared to $24 million in the prior year quarter.
I would note in the second quarter the reversal of $22 million of restructuring costs accrued in the prior period under the Aon Benfield and 2007 restructuring programs as a result of the company reoccupying vacated leasehold properties.
Overall we're ahead of the original schedule on our 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring program.
We have completed nearly 100% of the charges as of the end of the second quarter with approximately $24 million of incremental Risk Solutions savings still to achieve in the second half of 2011.
The following 3 margin opportunities are within our control and continue to put us on track in delivering our long-term target of 25% in Risk Solutions.
The first operational efficiency and the remaining restructuring savings; the second continued rollout of the revenue engine globally; the third Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external marketplace.
The fourth is an improving global economy in areas such as employment levels asset values and corporate revenues which will drive leverage through exposure growth along with every 100-basis point rise in short-term interest rates delivers roughly $35 million to $40 million to the bottom line; and fifth improvements in insurance pricing.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue was flat and we delivered an adjusted operating margin of 13.9% as a result to reflect the merger with Hewitt including a $59 million increase in intangible asset amortization.
To further assess the underlying performance of operating income and margin in the segment we believe it's useful to add together results for both Aon Consulting and Hewitt in the prior year quarter to form your starting point of analysis.
For example if we take Hewitt's adjusted operating income of $105 million plus $47 million for Aon Consulting your combined total is $152 million of operating income as reported for the prior year quarter.
If we subtract intangible amortization expense of $59 million this leaves an underlying $93 million of operating income.
Comparing $93 million with $151 million we reported in the second quarter the increase in operating income reflects savings related to the restructuring program additional synergy savings and operational improvement.
Essentially we believe that strong operating income growth on flat organic revenue implies solid operating margin expansion in the HR Solutions segment.
Lastly for the HR Solutions segment I wanted to comment briefly on the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $31 million of charges in the quarter primarily related to lease consolidation and workforce reduction.
The AON Hewitt restructure plan is expected to result in cumulative costs of $325 million through the end of the plan primarily encompassing $180 million in workforce reduction and $145 million in real estate rationalization costs.
Cash costs are expected to be approximately $275 million.
Savings related to the restructuring program in the second quarter are estimated at $34 million with additional synergy savings achieved outside of the formal restructuring program.
We expect to deliver total annual savings of $355 million in 2013 including approximately $280 million of annual savings related to the restructuring plan and additional savings in areas such as IT procurement and public company costs.
We are on track to deliver approximately $242 million of annual savings in 2011.
These savings are the first of 3 key drivers for delivering our long-term operating margin target of 20% in HR Solutions.
The other 2 key drivers are growth in the core business including HR BPO improvement and declining intangible asset amortization expense beginning in 2013.
Now let me discuss certain line items outside of the operating segment.
Interest expense increased $30 million due to an increase in the average amount of debt outstanding following the merger with Hewitt.
Other expense was $23 million in the second quarter primarily due to a noncash charge of $19 million resulting from the accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs associated with a repaid term credit agreement.
The second quarter also included a $13 million loss related to the company's ownership in certain insurance investment funds partially offset by $9 million of distribution from certain private equity securities.
Going forward for these items we would expect a run rate of approximately $5 million per quarter of interest income $35 million of unallocated expense and $60 million to $65 million of interest expense per quarter.
Due to better performance from our joint ventures we expect minority interest to be in the $9 million to $10 million per quarter going forward.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 24.7% in the second quarter.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2011 was favorably impacted by the resolution of an income tax audit and certain deferred tax adjustments.
The company anticipates an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of 29% for 2011.
Turning to shares.
Average diluted shares outstanding increased to 342.7 million in the second quarter compared to 282.6 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to the issuance of 61 million shares of common stock related to the merger with Hewitt partially offset by the company share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on June 30 were 326.7 million compared to 330.5 million at March 31.
There are approximately 13 million diluted stock equivalents.
The company has approximately $1.4 billion remaining under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2010.
As we think about buyback for the remainder of 2011 we believe it's incredibly important and expect it to be in the Q4 2010 levels.
Now let me turn to the balance sheet.
At June 30 cash and short-term investments were $815 million and total debt outstanding was $4.5 billion.
During the quarter we placed $500 million of 5-year notes of which the proceeds were used to refinance part of the original $1 billion term loan essentially lengthening the maturity and locking in a fixed rate.
On June 15 we refinanced the remaining outstanding portion of our term loan of $450 million essentially reducing the variable rate to LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points both of the historical rates of LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
Overall debt to capital was 35% at June 30 compared to 35.3% at March 31.
In summary we delivered 1% organic revenue placing us firmly on track for growth in 2011 despite fragile economic conditions and a continued soft market.
We're managing expenses driving operational initiatives across both segments and fully on track to achieve our long-term operating margin targets.
We have significant leverage to an improving global economy.
Our balance sheet and strong cash flow continue to provide significant financial flexibility as we repurchased 303 million of common stocks in the quarter highlighting our belief in the underlying strength of the firm.
With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we'd be delighted to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Keith Walsh Citi.
I guess I'll just come right out and ask.
I'm surprised there was little negative operating leverage at Brokerage however we want to adjust for the adjustments.
But just thinking about it out loud the pricing in the economy not good but certainly better than they were a year ago and you still have cost saves flowing in.
So I think this is probably a key area here where the misses versus my number so if you could address that? I'm happy to do that Keith.
Let me -- I'll start with a little bit of context around the quarter then Christa maybe you could just drive in give us specifics.
First of all overall as we said Keith we're driving toward a commitment around a 25% margin with a detailed game plan in place to do that.
That's fully on track.
Everything is moving as expected.
Q2 from our view actually did nothing to change the view on that.
I can see where you're coming from as you look at the results.
But as we look at behind the results and the overall game plan as Christa described 5 very specific elements are going to drive progress there and get us to that 25% margin.
Three are in our control around restructuring revenue engine Aon Broking those are progressing very very well.
We saw great progress in the quarter.
Two outside of our control in interest rates in pricing and GDP growth.
And we said all along by the way in addition to getting the 25% margin we are going to simultaneously invest heavily in the business which we continue to do in multiple places.
That means we're going to have really from our standpoint look at this year-to-year not quarter-to-quarter.
And if you look at it year-to-year as you know well our record reflects reasonable progress.
When you think about 2005 to 2010 we've increased margin 530 basis points give or take.
That's roughly a little over 100 basis points a year from 15.1 to 20.4 while simultaneously making all the investments that we've described before back into the business fighting the headwind on pricing and rates and the economy et cetera.
So from our standpoint we actually feel good very good about being on track for the 25%.
Literally nothing has changed in our mind in the context of that.
And maybe Christa could describe kind of the quarter specifically.
But overall we feel very good about it.
And importantly to your question really implied what's around do we have economic leverage to a changing economy? And we absolutely believe we do that and again nothing in the quarter in our mind changed that.
But Christa maybe you can talk specifically about the quarter.
Sure.
First we think about the resolution's margins Keith 21% versus 19.6%.
There are really 3 items we believe that sort of either onetime or macro-related that impacted margin.
90 basis points for lease termination 30 basis points for investment income and 20 basis points for FX.
That's 140 basis points essentially flat year-over-year excluding onetime and macro-related items.
And then if we think about sort of operating leverage going forward which is really the heart of your question I think there are sort of 3 things we would say that drive operating leverage going forward.
One is the initiative we have around sort of revenue engine improved productivity and expense management essentially blocking and tackling.
The second is really the return of the higher margin initiative we have around GRIP.
And we've really said that they're going to flow through 2011 '12 and '13 and we certainly see those coming through.
And the last one is really sort of leverage around exposure growth and pricing.
We absolutely see positive leverage as we look out.
And then my follow-up just related to the first question and more specifically around Aon Benfield.
Greg I'm having a hard time understanding your comment that it's performing better than you've projected when you did the deal.
When we got revenues down for 9 or 10 consecutive quarters versus Guy Carpenter and Willis Re and I have to imagine your margins are being impacted by that so maybe if you could just give me a little more color around that? Yes happy to do that Keith.
As we thought about literally again investing in the business and building our business for the long term we've invested in content and capability.
As we've done that we want to make absolutely certain we do it in the context of being to drive margin improvement.
And we've got a pretty good record of being able to do that.
All I was reflecting is Aon Benfield has done exactly that.
We knew we'd have growth pressure for the first couple of years.
As we put the businesses together we had some of that.
But if you think about the economics of what's been returned of synergy savings establishing the platform within the context of that that is done exceptionally well.
In fact beyond what we could have even hoped as we actually began the transaction.
And now as we look to kind of where we are now what we're essentially seeing is the 3 book grew in this quarter plus 2% as I described before.
The win-loss ratio as we've tracked them is improving.
We feel very very good about that in the context of sort of growing the business overall.
And so from our standpoint as we reflect on it all the economic returns have been there exactly as we'd hoped in fact better.
And the underlying growth characteristic as we reflect on this quarter and think about the second half of the year feel very very good about it.
So from our standpoint that was really what I was trying to reflect in my overall statement.
And we see some upside as we think about sort of what's happening in the second half of the year and as things improve on the pricing front in the overall economy.
So from our standpoint we see the growth in the second half and we know the underlying economic leverage we've got in the business.
And maybe just one more quick one on that point.
So are your margins up or down at Aon Benfield since when you did the deal? I guess that's what I really want to understand.
And then how many -- when do we normalize on the revenue? It's been 2 years now when do we normalize and when do you start getting more of an average growth rate for the industry? Yes and as we've done historically Keith we talk about overall Brokerage margin.
And as you can reflect the Brokerage margin has increased in the margins 100 basis points a year for each of the last 5 years including the last 2 years when we've included Aon Benfield in the context of it.
So overall Brokerage margin again back to kind of the forced march that we've been for the last 5 years irrespective of the economic external situation internal situation insurance pricing our Brokerage margin has increased about 100 basis points a year including including Benfield and all the characteristics and challenges you're having to bring businesses together.
So we feel very good about the progress on our Brokerage margin.
And again what creates some lumpiness is we're continuing to make significant investments and that causes kind of the quarter-to-quarter lumpiness.
And that's the trade-off we're always going to make but it should not in any way shape or form take away from what we believe is happening with our underlying Brokerage margin which continues to go up.
And we anticipate it will do to achieve the 25% target which again as I said before we're completely on track to do.
And we feel like we're about there from the standpoint on the normalized as you described standpoint from the organic growth standpoint.
So you're not going to tell me about Aon Benfield's margin specifically in the context of.
.
.
We're going to keep reporting what we always report which is overall margin Brokerage margin which as I said before is up.
Our next question Michael Nannizzi Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
The buyback page you kind of reverted -- you're reverting back to the fourth quarter kind of $150 million a quarter.
What about prices there? It looks like cash flow generation is pretty substantial.
Is there another place you plan to channel that capital or the cash flow as you're generating it? And just one follow-up.
So as we think about cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet $815 million you think about that splitting roughly half-half between the U.S.
and international.
And then you think about the uses of cash we have Michael which we have some substantial uses of cash this year pension contributions dividends.
And so we're reflecting those in the comments where we really said that we think buyback for the second half of the year will look more like Q4 2010 levels as we determine the location of cash and the other uses of cash.
Got you okay.
And then just on the lease terms when you call these onetime items I mean if we're trying to think about what margins look like from here and I understand the kind of 25% goal and kind of moving in that direction but how should we think about the back half of the year? I mean are you going to have another lease termination charge? Are any of these onetime items going to be onetime items again in the third quarter or maybe the fourth quarter? How should we think about that? The first thing I mean to say on the lease termination particularly the U.K.
one this quarter it's a very positive -- it's positive for cash flow it's positive for GAAP results.
It just happens to be an impact in terms of our adjusted results because of the way you -- reverse the restructuring charge and then flow the operating lease expense back through our adjusted results.
So it is absolutely the right decision to be making for shareholders.
As you think about adjusted margins in the second half of the year I did say that we would not see lease termination impact in the second of the year.
We do believe we're now at the end of this.
Got you.
Okay and then just this one I guess for Greg.
I mean you're kind of talking about being on track from where you were to where you want to go.
How does the second quarter kind of margins in both segments how do you think about that along that same path? I mean are you -- when you back out these onetime items it looks like we're about flat but we're not kind of moving in a singular direction.
It doesn't seem at least from the numbers -- is there something underlying that maybe you can point to more specifically? Yes.
We can step back and think about this as we measure it over the course of the year and improvement year-to-year-to-year.
And that's what I said before we feel very confident about the progress.
The record is clear and the progress going forward and the underlying things we see day-to-day in the business is why we are confident the Brokerage margin is going to continue to march forward.
When you think about quarter-to-quarter again we would look at it as we are roughly flat for the quarter as Christa described.
And these are onetime charges.
And again the leasehold improvement things like that are literally things we do -- have done based on bringing Hewitt into the fold.
They all make sense.
They work from a shareholder's standpoint.
We're always going to do that in the context of what we're doing.
But structurally the improvement in the margins is clear from our standpoint and is going to progress throughout the year.
Again it'll be higher in some quarters and lower in some quarters.
This is why by the way you guys hear us when you get really excited when margins went up in the quarter we say it's going to vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.
It's going to march forward just as it always had.
And so for us in Q2 roughly flat.
We made some specific investments in content capability that we think will serve us very very well going forward.
You completely underscored our confidence that as the economy continues to hopefully improve in the fullness of time we get great economic leverage in the context of that.
So and as I said before we feel very good about the progress on the Brokerage margin side as we think about tracking for the year first piece.
And on Aon Hewitt as Christa described what she really took you through was a very detailed breakdown of the operating performance at $1 level.
You really don't have an apples-to-apples comparison on margin which is why it really is almost irrelevant.
If you go back and look at the specifics of exactly what happened on operating income in the context of Aon Hewitt we feel quite good about the progress year-to-year.
And when you think about sort of overall Q1 is up $43 million Q2 is up $59 million from a synergy-capture standpoint we are fully on track to do in fact ahead a little to do exactly what we wanted to do in the context of driving margin improvement on Aon Hewitt.
So that's why in the end we feel very good about sort of overall progress on margin on across both businesses and feel like we're very much on track irrespective of kind of the quarter-to-quarter ups and downs.
Does that make sense? Yes it does.
I mean one last one if I just could.
So is there anything in quarter that you would feel like didn't hit your expectations? Or is there something you think from an operational perspective you would've liked to have seen better or different? Yes I think from our standpoint the thing that we want to continue to push on is organic growth.
And while we saw a 3% organic on the retail side we're going to keep pushing for more than that.
It's been a number of quarters now.
We're kind of in that category.
But given the investments we really believe that as Christa described into 2012 we're going to see great leverage in the context of that.
And then on the Benfield front just as Keith highlighted listen we want to grow that business and drive that business.
Obviously our business is much larger than some of our counterparts which reflects sort of changes when you think -- compared to the organic growth of the 2 businesses.
But we saw a positive treaty growth in this quarter which we now -- it's the first time since back in 2009 we feel good about that.
But organic growth is something we're always going to drive and focus on.
And then again on the Hewitt front again we're kind of flat in organic across the 2.
As we think about the second half for Aon Hewitt on the consulting side we were plus 4% in the first quarter flat in the second quarter kind of 2% year-to-date.
Our expectations are we're probably about that for the second half on the consulting side and a little better on the Outsourcing side.
So we feel confident about growing organically for 2011 which is a step.
But if there's one area that we really want continue to drive forward on it really is going to be on the gross side.
Everything else is exactly on track with what we'd hoped to do.
And next question Dan Farrell Sterne Agee.
Could you give us a little more color on the Consulting Services organic growth? And just -- it seems a little weaker then I might have thought.
Maybe you're bumping up against some tougher comparisons in the investment side or the compensation side.
And then also just longer-term view of what -- where you see that going and how you see healthcare legislation having a long-term impact there.
Yes.
As I said before literally from a consulting standpoint we really say if you look at the first 6 months we are plus 4% in the first quarter 0 in the second quarter on the Consulting Services side.
And what you really saw there by the way was exceptional growth on the global compensation business and on the investment consulting business and it was offset by a decline and some pressure really across the U.S.
on both the retirement side and the U.S.
health and benefit side.
From our standpoint you asked us to think about the year.
First half first 6 months was about 2%.
We kind of think the second half is going to be roughly in the same place.
We're going to keep pushing and driving towards that.
We have the strongest we believe an exceptionally strong platform in the context of what's going on on the Consulting Services side.
And when you put in context with Health Care Reform and all the other things that are out there we believe when clients think about their issues day-to-day on pensions retirement health and benefits talent those needs are going to go up not down.
And we've got the strongest platform in the world to serve those needs.
So we feel very very good about how we're positioned in the healthcare front on the consulting front both Brokerage and in admin and then on the Outsourcing side.
So from our standpoint the story here is not different than it is in risk.
We feel like the issues today are more significant for our clients than before and we feel like we've got exceptionally strong platforms to address those issues.
Okay.
And just one other thing.
On the reinsurance Brokerage segment how much of a margin differential is there on the capital markets and facultative business versus the treaty business? Look we really think about that business as a Risk Solutions business Aon Benfield plus ARS combined and that's certainly the way we report it.
And as Greg said you can see margin year-over-year continues to expand and we do not break those businesses apart.
And even in the context of Aon Benfield when we think what we do for clients it really is about capital solutions.
So whether it's treaty facultative solutions or capital market solutions we're really bringing to them an integrated view around how to improve their return on invested capital.
That's actually served us exceptionally well.
That's why the win rates are as I described before are improving and we expect will continue to do so.
And so we really think about it in a much more integrated way as Christa described.
And next Meyer Shields Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> The FX hit apparently came in the HR Solutions segment and I was hoping you could explain the mechanics of that.
Sorry the FX hit in the HR Solutions segment? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Right.
In other words you recorded $0.03 of favorable FX I shouldn't say hit I should say bump.
Overall FX looks like it had a negative impact on the margin on the insurance side.
So when we do the math on the consulting side I'm just trying to figure out how various FX changes impact the margin in HR Solutions.
Got it.
There was no FX impact on margin in the HR Solutions segment.
The impact on EPS you saw as I mentioned was primarily the $0.03 impact for the adjustment results was primarily due to the euro and Australian dollar.
The impact on the Risk Solutions margin was really primarily due to the pound U.S.
dollar and there's no impact to the HR Solutions margin.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay so where in the income statement would that $0.03 be located? I'm sorry? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm just looking through the income statement.
I'm to see where -- which line item I guess or combination of line items produce -- reflect that $0.03? Well it's really going to flow through in both revenue and expense in both -- really in the Risk Solutions segment is the main area it's going to flow through Meyer.
So basically as you bring back -- I mean the impact on the Risk Solutions margin is primarily due to the phenomenon of in the U.K.
we have about $400 million to $450 million of U.S.-denominated revenue in both our ARS and Aon Benfield businesses on a yearly basis.
And therefore you have U.S.-denominated revenue and pound-denominated expenses.
And as the pound changes that reduces a negative impact on margin for the quarter.
So it's really going to flow through on the revenue and expense lines and nearly all expense lines in that Risk Solutions segment.
Does that help? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> It does but I have to take it offline because I'm still a little bit lost.
Greg can I switch gears quickly and just talk -- we had a couple of I guess relatively high-profile departures with Andrew Appel and Elliot Richardson.
And I'm wondering if you could talk to whether there's anything that we should read into that? Yes I would say there really isn't when you think about sort of what we're trying to do overall with the overall business.
And these are very separate cases and separate situations.
In the case of Andrew he's done great contributions at our firm a lot of great things and he's decided to move on to do something different.
Mutual discussion and it has gone very very well and excited for Andrew and his new role and what he's trying to do.
I'm very supportive.
In the case of Elliott and even on the at construction side we've made some calls to grow our business and build our business long term.
And as you think about sort of what we're trying to do to unite our global firm and deliver great value to our clients in a very local way we've got to have our colleagues around the table doing that effectively and we made some calls.
We made some very specific calls around the folks who can help us do that.
And to the extent people couldn't then we made some specific calls around it was time for them to do something different.
We wish him well but not part of global Aon.
And beauty of it is we're quite confident in the teams we've got.
We're very excited about how they've come on board and what they're doing to build our business.
These are colleagues who have been with us for a long time with a great bench.
And you didn't mention the construction side but that's equally high-profile.
Kevin White and team there are just doing an exceptional job of building that business.
We're very excited about what's going on in the construction front and continue to make substantial in essence [ph] in the context of that.
And we've also on the facultative side done exactly the same thing.
We're just exceptionally excited about that.
And then on the consulting side I would say Kristi Savacool and Bal Dail have just -- are doing an exceptional job as we build that business and drive it forward.
And really the punchline is we're blessed with a great bench.
We're also focused on a mission to build our firm going forward and we're going to have the people around the table who can help us do that and only those folks.
Next we have Brian Meredith UBS.
A couple of questions for you all here.
The first one I'm wondering if Christi you can comment on what the impact of some of the recent acquisitions may have had on margins in the Risk Solutions area? Would that pressure margins at all? It had a minor impact on margins but not a material impact Brian.
I mean obviously as we're bringing Glenrand in it it's significant acquisitions.
As Greg said it really does position us as the number one broker across the continent of Africa one of the key areas sort of growing in the global economy and very very important for our clients.
It's another example of Brian around we do a number of things like that particularly that investments in the Risk Insight Platform a few other places that we don't breakout and will from quarter-to-quarter have significant impact.
We'll absorb that and move forward as we build margins over the course of each year.
Great.
And then secondly with respect to the Hewitt expense saves going forward I'm wondering are you still on track to deliver the $229 million to $242 million that you laid out for 2011 originally? Yes we absolutely are.
So if you saw in the quarter we believe we're 100% on track to achieve the $242 million for 2011 and the $355 million for 2013.
And you saw $43 million of restructuring plus other synergy and operational improvements come through in Q1 and you saw that number grow to $59 million in Q2.
So if you add those 2 numbers together you can see that we're well on track to achieve $242 million.
Great.
And then the last one Greg I wonder if you could talk a little bit about what kind of the competition out there right now for talent in the insurance brokerage area? I mean we do see a lot of teams exchanging hands I'm hearing in the marketplace that the various firms kind of paying up for people.
What does it look like out there right now? And will that cause any kind of pressure on margins here going forward particularly if we see some rate improvement and maybe offset some of that? Yes.
You know Brian I think from a talent standpoint this is something we live everyday.
And in fact as we reflect on it it's something that I think it's going to become even more and more prevalent as you think about Aon.
We have worked hard to try to build our capability globally.
And in doing so have worked really hard to create great opportunities for our individual practitioners our leaders.
We really want to be the place that if you want to be a practitioner in either risk or people you come to Aon and whether Aon Risk Solutions Aon Benfield or Aon Hewitt.
And we want to keep pushing on that mission.
We want to work to improve our capability here.
We think we've done that.
We know we've got a long way to go.
We're going to keep on investing in it.
It also means we're going to be an absolute target for talent around the world.
We know that which is why we've got to keep the bar high.
But it's -- one of the things that's remarkable about the firm is as we bring people in it builds the talent pool but we've got incredible capability around the firm with a very very deep bench.
and we're quite excited about where we are right now from a talent standpoint.
And we believe that's going to serve us quite well as we continue to grow the business.
Is the competition higher or lower? I don't now.
It's always going to be out there.
It's as if when people talk about what's the competition on the client side? It's always high.
That's the world we live in and we're excited to be part of it.
Next Adam Klauber from William Blair.
What's the pipeline on the Outsource business? And when can we get better visibility on wins loses of the combined company? So one of the great things about our Outsource business with 5- to 7-year average contract length in the BPO space and 3- to 4-year in the benefits administration space is we have a terrific view of the pipeline over the next several years.
And we feel very good about the trajectory not just in terms of revenue growth long term but in terms of win rates.
And across our Outsourcing business our win rates are very high and it frankly improved substantially from 2010 to 2011 a great tribute to the amazing leadership and depths of talent in that Outsourcing business.
So we feel very good about the trajectory both in terms of revenue growth and margin expansion in our Outsourcing business.
Okay.
And then on the Brokerage business I'm sure you saw the CIB just came out and said the rates have moved.
Rates have moved pretty much flat.
Number one is that helping the U.S.
business right now? And do you think it will have a bigger impact in the second half on organic growth? Yes I would say just taking a step back Adam as we think about sort of growth for the second half we think it will be marginally better than the first half overall.
Obviously reflects across our book both on the Risk Solutions side and Aon Benfield side.
And so that's how we see the second half of the year playing out.
I wouldn't reflect back on rates though.
As we think about it we took a pretty analytic view of this.
We think literally this is what happened in the first half.
It's still soft pricing globally.
Globally exposure's are stabilizing a little bit.
It's still down but not as much as it was before.
So maybe you call that improvement I guess in the context of overall rates.
But if you just think about what we reflected in the Risk Insight Platform the Global Risk Insight Platform literally and that's what we use as a measure rate.
Is not conjecture.
It's the largest repository of insurance information exists on the planet today.
And in Q2 they were down 2.5% across our system.
Just to put in perspective in Q1 they were down 3.5% in Q4 last year they were down 4.4%.
So we've gone from negative 4.4% to negative 3.5% to negative 2.5% and we feel like that's a pretty precise assessment of exactly what's going on across our book.
And you might suggest that our book might represent a reflection of the overall insurance marketplace given the spread of business we got on the retail side.
And then on the reinsurance side we've stated -- we're basically at stable to down 5% which is exactly where we came out on the sort of the June July time frame on the reinsurance side.
And again this represents 41 specific programs we put in place in June and July.
I would suggest this is probably the broadest market view that's out there.
No one else is close in terms of sort of what happened in that time frame.
That flat to down 5% was better than January by the way.
It was more stark or down more in January.
But from our standpoint we think it represents frankly a reflection of what we've been able to accomplish on behalf of clients.
I mean the market strength we've got combined with exceptional analytics produce what is really great great results for clients.
And if you compare it to sort of what's been published by other folks out there if in fact that's a big achievement for their clients we're talking about literally a relative hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars of savings for our clients in the context of what we achieved against these 41 programs.
So from our standpoint rates are still down but not as down as they were.
And again as I said before from an organic standpoint we see some positive trends for us in the second half.
Does that give you enough background? Next question Matt Heimermann JPMorgan.
Just a more high level.
I mean I guess you guys are looking into rolling out a direct-to-buyer or kind of SME aggregator in other parts of the world.
And I guess can you give us a sense of maybe where you are in that process and potentially what timing might be if you're considering bringing that to the states? Yes this is really more Matt about as we described before on the overall Aon Broking front and what we're trying to accomplish in the context of sort of how we serve our clients and looking for ways to aggregate risk bring things together and really put together a better and better world-class programs in the context of how we serve clients.
And this is just again back to kind of the investments we're making in the business that do impact quarter-to-quarter margin as we talked about before but we believe actually reinforce our capability to deliver substantial growth and margin improvement for the long term.
This is just one of those examples.
That's in development.
And again as we said before on a lot of the Aon brokering initiatives we see real impact in more 2012 2013 but we believe we've got an incredible opportunity here.
When you think about our position the middle market and small commercial it is literally the biggest in the world today.
Our Affinity business is a $600 million-plus business so incredibly strong business.
We have a proven model that we know works as we aggregate risk and actually pull together a package of opportunities we can deliver back to clients.
And so we see absolutely substantial opportunity to do this across our global book.
And we've really never pursued this in a way we talked about before nor could we have until we brought online all the things we're doing around Aon Broking.
So it really is just an evolution of what's happened out of GRIP and what's happened as we think about ways to serve clients.
And it's going to be '12 and '13 but I'm glad you raised it because we believe it's a -- we believe this is going to be a substantial step forward in the context of Aon Broking to the betterment of our clients and to the betterment of our shareholders.
That's helpful.
Should we think about this as you reshaping how the business is transacted and therefore it goes more to expense efficiency than it does -- I suspect there's probably a bit of both in the strategy but can you help us put into context how you think about it? I guess I'm thinking maybe efficiency versus just what you think it means for market share things like that? Yes I think there will be definitely both sides.
This for us though as much as anything Matt it's about really how we grow the business and build the business because we're going to -- we will in fact be generating more attractive opportunities for clients.
And in addition to that so literally that's the gross of the equation in addition to that we're going to be generating greater yields.
So if you think about the things we do to grow our business we get more clients we do more stuff with the existing clients and we increase yield per dollar of premium placed.
And this really is going to help us we believe get more clients and we believe increase yield per dollar of premium placed.
Those 2 things we think from the combination will have very positive implications on the growth structure of the firm and on the margin of the firm both.
Okay.
And then when you said just on the timing question with the U.S.
when you say 2012 2013 in terms of starting to see more material contribution or starting to see this getting out of the investment phase maybe to the more operational phase is that kind of the timing we'd expect to see it maybe permeate other geographies outside of where you're testing it now? It's exactly right.
And in fact as we described before we've gone through a progression.
First we realized if we capture the data and the understanding even though it was an incredibly substantial investment to do that again think about it we really are asking our broker colleagues to enter data around the world so they'd give us the basis of GRIP and then investing literally in -- in Ireland 100-plus colleagues actually scrubbed the data to make sure it's absolutely pristine so we can actually use it to serve clients.
Then you --  that's got to get us into 2011.
We're really starting to see some benefit there.
And beyond that you add these programs on top of that which is the next natural evolution.
That will increase yield.
And again just for reference if you're talking about $40 billion to $50 billion of flow 10 basis points of yield 50 basis points of yield matters a lot in the context of being able to actually to drive that.
And we're going to start to see that in 2012 2013 as we continue to evolve this whole idea of Aon Broking and serving clients in the context of that.
So we see it meaningfully impacting in 2012 2013.
And again I'm glad you raised it.
It's another example as to why as we watch this evolve we have basically what we would call proved the concept.
We know it works.
We've done it in different places.
We proved it.
And now literally it's about scaling the concept taking that proven concept and driving it around the world.
And that's really what 2012 2013 is about.
And that's why we're pretty excited about this.
Okay.
And then just one on the HR Solutions business.
I mean I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about project revenues.
The macro commentary you give isn't exactly constructive for project revenues coming back.
So when you're talking about improving growth rates I'm assuming that's without project revenue but I'd just be curious how significant you think the project revenue side can be to organic growth and maybe looking out 12 to 24 months from now? Right.
So as we think about the impact of the economy and sort of a fragile economy on the Outsourcing business project revenues is one of the big impacts in calendar year 2011 and it was in calendar year 2010.
I would note that we have largely sort of lapped the big sort of year-over-year impact of that now in Q2.
And so while there's kind of minimal impact to the second half of the year it really is much much more than what we've seen in the first half of the year.
As we think about sort of project revenue it's really related often to M&amp;A activity changes in benefits plans as a result of U.S.
Health Care Reform.
So you can see some real opportunities as you look out sort of 12 24 to 36 months that to grow over time.
Next question is Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Sorry to beat on a dead horse here but if we look the -- at your target of executing year-over-year margin expansion in the broking business in regards to economic trends even if I look at it on a year-to-year basis not quarter-to-quarter it still seems like margins are slightly down on a trailing 12-month basis.
So am I looking at it incorrectly or you looking already at 2012 when you're talking about executing this year-over-year strategy? What am I missing here? So first of all you're absolutely looking at it correctly.
So year-to-date margins are down there's no doubt that.
We think about it as a full calendar year sort of view of the world.
And as we look out we feel confident that we're on track.
And so we just don't think about any quarter-to-quarter sort of impacts because there are a lot of things in our business that are lumpy.
And as Greg described we are making investments in our business that are going to generate long-term returns.
And we're very confident that we're on track to 25%.
Okay.
And could we also talk a little bit about maybe the potential for a downgrade in the U.S.
that -- of 1 notch or 2 notches? What impact does that have on your business? Yes.
So the first thing I'd say is obviously there's a lot of implications potentially to the economy of that which are very difficult to speculate upon.
So if I leave that aside then I think there are 2 potential impacts of a U.S.
sort of debt situation.
One is FX.
And obviously if the U.S.
dollar were to sort of decline in value relative to the euro Aussie and New Zealand and Canadian dollars then that is a positive impact in our business as we bring back revenue and expenses from those countries.
And then -- so that's the FX impact.
And the second one is interest rates.
If interest rates were to rise then it has 2 positive impacts on our business.
The first one is on fiduciary funds.
And each 100-basis point rise in interest rate is about $35 million to $40 million straight to the top line and bottom line.
And the second impact on our business is unfunded pension liability.
Obviously an increase in interest rates would decrease our unfunded pension liability which is again good for us.
The last thing I would say is we are in a very strong position in terms of balance sheet and financial flexibility.
And so there are absolutely no issues in terms of liquidity.
And just generally overall though if you think about sort of the specifics obviously we like everyone want this to get resolved in a reasonable way for our clients because while Christa's highlighted it very very well I think specifically what the macro impacts are things that impact our clients impact us ultimately.
So it's obviously we want to get this resolved.
Right.
Can I sneak in one more question about your recent decision to slash the U.S.
wholesale panel to basically 2? A how do you address clients' concerns about ability to add value with only 2 panelists? And two there seems to have been some talk about potential conflicts of interest there.
How do you square those? Well first and foremost as we think about sort of how we compete in the marketplace and what we're trying to do everything we sort of step back and do is really around driving value for our clients period.
And as we think about approaching the market that literally is all the investments we're making.
If you think about the formidable investments we've made.
It really is around driving greater value for clients.
And that's something clients improve operating performance strengthen balance reduce volatility.
Nothing actually stands in the way of how Aon is maniacally focused on doing that.
And we're going to continue to do that.
So that drives everything we do.
In the context of that the decision really was around how we can actually help clients and really make sure that their business is actually handled in a way that's consistent.
And the difficulty as you are handing off to multiple wholesalers there's often variability in actually how that happens over time.
It's variability in the context of how you think about it inside the U.S.
it's variability when you think about it when you actually transferred over to the U.K.
So for us as we reflected on how to do that and we talked to clients we want to be extremely consistent in how we actually handle that.
By the way that includes building the capability in-house so we're actually not handing it off to a third party who then handles our clients.
That actually concerns us a great deal and that's why we made the initial decision to actually reduce the panel and focus it much more on how we serve clients effectively.
Then I would say in terms of the overall process this is a process that really has been handled incredibly pristinely.
We handled it much like we do any major decision that affects our clients or it affects our shareholders a completely independent process.
It's very objective specific set of criteria.
In fact probably even more so overdid the process.
It took us 6 months to make the overall decision.
We are confident we made a decision that we think will help our clients long term.
And it's selection of going from really was down -- 9 down to 2 to serve our clients effectively and in the end feel very very good about the overall process and how it's been implemented so far.
Our last question comes from Jay Cohen Bank of America.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just wanted to clarify one thing and that was the tax rate.
I guess by saying that the annual tax rate would be about 29% are we talking for the second half of the year a tax rate closer to 30 or slightly above? So I'm talking about the underlying effective tax rate on operations.
What we reported in Q2 is essentially after specific adjustments Jay.
So as you think about your model it's really the tax rate for the full year on an underlying basis for 2011 and going forward.
So just to clarify so second half of the year you're saying should be about 29%? Yes on an underlying or sort of effective rate going forward yes.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
No closing remarks just thanks everybody for taking part in the call today.
We appreciate it and we appreciate your interest.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Corporation's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it's important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our third quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Corporation.
You may begin.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
To begin our underlying results reflect strong performance in our Risk segment delivery of synergy savings related to Aon Hewitt and the repurchase of 175 million of common stock.
And while not satisfied with our organic revenue performance in HR Solutions and I'll discuss more of that in detail we continue to execute against our long-term strategy to substantially strengthen the firm for long-term growth and value creation.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is continued areas of investment across Aon; and third is overall organic growth performance.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
In the third quarter organic revenue was 1% overall highlighted by strong growth of 4% in our Retail Brokerage business.
Adjusted operating margin decreased 180 basis points driven by the inclusion of Hewitt results including a significant increase in intangible amortization expense which had a 220 basis point negative impact.
EPS increased 13% driven by strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
Overall a quarter of continued progress against our key metrics as we remain focused on our long-term strategy.
On the second topic further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities.
Just a few examples.
In Risk Solutions we continue to invest in innovative technology such as our Global Risk Insight Platform which is the world's leading global repository risk and insurance placement information.
We now have 1.2 million trades in more than 59 billion of bound premium and a growing client list of more than 20 insurance carriers utilizing the platform analytics and services capabilities.
Also we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk resulting in better economics for all participants.
As highlighted by a significant D&amp;O program of more than 175 million in premium we're placing in the market on behalf of clients.
We're also investing in additional capability and talent through recently completed acquisitions such as Aon Grieg in Norway and Glenrand in South Africa significantly strengthening our international footprint.
A final example is our investment in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the revenue engine in EMEA and Asia Pacific as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates as clients gain better understanding of our value proposition.
As we discussed previously we are proving the concept of these investments in 2011 and as we move into 2012 and 2013 we're going to continue to drive greater scale and increased operating leverage as a result of these investments in our Risk business.
In HR Solutions we continue to strengthen our industry-leading position in both public and corporate healthcare exchanges with the significant investment we're making in our Aon Hewitt Navigators business enabling clients to prepare for ultimate changes in healthcare legislation with design purchasing and administration capability.
We're also expanding our capability in compensation consulting.
With the recent acquisition of Ward Financial Group a leading provider of benchmarking for insurance carriers in North America.
We're also expanding our international footprint as the workforce has increasingly becoming more global with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia.
And finally we're continuing to invest in expanding our core HR BPO offerings through point solutions opportunities such as dependent eligibility audits and absence management diagnostics.
In summary as we focus on the long term across Risk and HR Solutions our fundamental client-serving capability continues to substantially strengthen around the globe.
Finally on the third topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% with improved rates of organic revenue in each business despite soft pricing excess capital and fragile economic conditions globally.
Against these headwinds which are primarily market-related we're driving a set of initiatives that continue to strengthen our performance and give us confidence that our Risk Solutions business is firmly positioned for long-term growth and leveraged to an improving economy.
With the management of our renewal book portfolio through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation of more than $250 million across our Retail business with solid growth across many markets including China Latin America Africa New Zealand Middle East Ireland Italy and U.S.
Retail just to name a few highlighting the strength of our global client-serving capability.
Investments in new product and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP Aon Broking and Client Promise.
An improved win-loss trends in our core treaty reinsurance book of business that have now been positive for the last 2 quarters.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 4%.
Exposure units were relatively stable pricing continues to be soft down low-single digits on average albeit at a moderating rate of decline.
We also saw growth across all regions as a result of strong management of the renewal book of business in Latin America U.S.
Retail solid growth in new business in Canada as well.
A really really solid performance overcoming soft market conditions and continued sector weakness in areas such as commercial construction and financial services where we got leadership positions.
On the international front organic revenue growth was also 4%.
Pricing continues to be flat to modestly down on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions.
We saw strong growth in New Zealand and across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as Thailand Taiwan and China.
We saw a modest growth in U.K.
Retail and EMEA as exposures are generally stable but economic conditions remain fragile across many core markets in Continental Europe.
In reinsurance organic revenue declined 1% a modest improvement from Q2.
Results reflect the 2% decline related to facultative transactions partially offset by 1% growth in capital markets and advisory businesses in our international treaty placements.
In our core book of treaty reinsurance which represents 85% of revenues we saw a 2% negative impact from the market as pricing was flat to down modestly on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions and higher seen retentions as clients retain more risk.
And while market impact remains negative the underlying strength in treaty reinsurance continues to improve.
As net new business was up 2% reflecting continued improvement from a negative 3% in Q4 flat in Q1 and now plus 2% in Q2.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter we would note that the prior year quarter was a particularly strong quarter for capital markets transactions.
While our pipeline is encouraging the timing of capital market transactions as well as facultative transactions can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
If certain transactions are pushed out we'd expect a modest decline from this quarter's results with the reverse being true of the transactions that are completed in the quarter.
Overall we continue to be encouraged by the underlying trends in the core treaty book and we'd expect to see modest growth overall in 2012 if trends continue.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue was negative 2% a modest decline from flat in the prior quarter and a disappointing result compared to our previous expectations for modest improvement.
Primarily due to 2 factors: Lower project-related revenue in Outsourcing and weaker results in EMEA in Consulting.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In Outsourcing organic revenue was negative 2% compared to flat to the prior quarter.
We saw positive growth from new client wins in both Benefits Administration and HR BPO partially offset by price compression within expectations suggesting continued strong underlying client performance.
However results were primarily impacted by a $13 million decrease in project-related revenue as the prior year quarter reflected strong performance including support from multiple M&amp;A transactions that didn't repeat at the same level this year.
In addition the quarter included $4 million related to a onetime adjustment of business in Canada.
As we look to the fourth quarter we'd expect less pressure from project-related revenue resulting in modestly improved organic revenue performance from the third quarter's results.
In Consulting Services organic revenue was a negative 2% compared to flat in the prior quarter.
In the U.S.
and Canada we continue to see pressure in both Health and Benefits Consulting related to unemployment levels and in Communications Consulting from lower discretionary spend.
Additionally significant uncertainty in the third quarter surrounding economic conditions in EMEA drove lower-than-anticipated results in our Health and Benefits Consulting business.
Partially offsetting these weaker results were solid growth in Asia Pacific in Global Compensation Consulting and Investment Management Consulting all areas where we continue to invest and see good long-term growth opportunities.
As we look to the fourth quarter we'd expect Consulting to deliver modest organic improvement from the third quarter's result.
Overall I want to emphasize we are not satisfied with our growth performance.
While we expect economic conditions to remain fragile in the short term against these headwinds we're driving a set of initiatives that continue to strengthen our underlying performance and give us confidence that our HR Solutions business is positioned for improved long-term growth and leveraged to an improving economy.
With solid new business generation with over 160 wins including more than 20 new large and mid-market benefits administration wins and a very significant recent win in a large leading financial institution in HR BPO.
A high degree of recurring revenue across HR Solutions with strong renewal rates highlighting strong client satisfaction and continued investments in international markets we were seeing double-digit growth in Investment Management Consulting and in new products and services such as our Aon Hewitt Navigators Healthcare Exchange business.
In summary our solid performance in Risk reflects the strength of our industry-leading platform and continues progress against our long-term strategy.
And we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening the underlying performance and positioning HR Solutions for improved organic growth over time.
With that said I'd like to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our third quarter results reflect continued progress to strengthen our industry-leading position and client-serving capabilities across Risk and HR.
While we're firmly on track for growth in 2011 we are not satisfied with our organic growth performance year-to-date.
Against this challenge we are managing expenses driving operational initiatives delivering savings from our restructuring program and effectively allocating capital as highlighted by the repurchase of 175 million in common stock in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the results of the third quarter.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items was $0.69 per share for the third quarter up 13% compared to $0.61 in the prior year quarter.
The inclusion of Hewitt results combined with strong underlying performance and effective capital management more than offset a $61 million increase in intangible amortization expense and shares issued in the prior year for the Hewitt transaction.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 include $26 million of restructuring charges and $22 million of transaction-related Hewitt costs.
Lastly foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of $0.03.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a very modest favorable impact to EPS in the fourth quarter.
Starting in the first quarter of 2012 and going forward the company will begin providing adjusted results that excludes the impact of noncash intangible asset amortization and continue to exclude certain onetime items such as restructuring charges.
We believe the exclusion of noncash intangible asset amortization will more closely align external audiences and the company around cash flow generation and with how we think about capital management and shareholder value creation  for cash-on-cash returns.
As our required uses of cash decline over the next several years and free cash flow improves we expect it to be significant source of value creation for shareholders.
Now let me talk about each of the segments.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% and we delivered an operating margin of 19% on an adjusted basis up 110 basis points from the prior year quarter.
Our performance for the quarter continues to demonstrate strong operational discipline and underlying structural margin improvement positioning the segment for greater operating leverage as growth and economic conditions continue to improve around the globe.
On an adjusted basis operating income increased 16% or $42 million to $308 million.
The year-over-year performance was primarily driven by an increase in organic revenue performance and modest benefits from the restructuring program.
Let me spend a moment on each of the restructuring programs.
Key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the 2007 restructuring program we've incurred 100% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the third quarter are estimated $134 million compared to $125 million in the prior year quarter.
Approximately $113 million of the savings were related to the Risk Solutions segment primarily for workforce reduction.
With respect to the Aon Benfield restructuring program we have incurred 83% of the charge necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the third quarter are estimated at $30 million compared to $27 million in the prior year quarter.
Overall we are ahead of the original schedules and have delivered structural margin improvement.
We have completed nearly all of the programs as of the end of the third quarter with approximately $29 million of incremental Risk Solutions savings still to deliver.
As remaining restructuring savings continue to wind down the following 3 areas of margin opportunity are within our control and continue to put us on track toward delivering our long-term target of 25% in Risk Solutions: #1 operational efficiency and remaining restructuring savings; #2 continued rollout of a revenue engine; #3 higher-margin GRIP-related and Aon Broking initiatives.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external market; #4 an improving global economy in areas such as employment levels asset values and corporate revenues will drive leverage through exposure growth along with every 100 basis point rise in short-term interest rates delivered the roughly $40 million to the bottom line; and fifth improvements in insurance pricing.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue declined 3% and we delivered an adjusted operating margin of 11.2% as results reflect the merger with Hewitt including a $61 million increase in intangible asset amortization.
To further assess the underlying performance of operating income and margin in the segment we believe it's useful to add together results of both Hewitt and Aon Consulting in the prior year quarter to form your starting point of the analysis.
For example if we take Hewitt's adjusted operating income of $110 million plus $55 million for Aon Consulting your combined total is $165 million of operating income as reported for the prior year quarter.
If we subtract additional intangible amortization expense of $61 million this leaves an underlying $104 million of operating income.
Comparing $104 million to the $125 million we reported in the third quarter the increase in operating income reflects approximately $63 million of total restructuring and synergy savings partially offset by lower organic revenue growth including a $35 million decline in project revenue $10 million of onetime items related to certain write-offs and a significant investment in our Aon Hewitt Navigators business.
Lastly for the HR Solutions segment I wanted to give an update on the Aon Hewitt  restructuring plan and a brief comment on integration.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $26 million of charges in the quarter primarily related to workforce reduction and lease consolidation.
The Aon Hewitt restructuring plan is expected to result in cumulative cost of $325 million through the end of the plan primarily encompassing $180 million in workforce reduction and $145 million in real estate rationalization costs.
Cash costs are expected to be approximately $275 million.
Savings related to the restructuring program in the third quarter are estimated at $37 million with additional synergy savings achieved outside of the formal restructuring program.
We expect to deliver total annual savings of $355 million in 2013 including approximately $280 million of annual savings related to the restructuring plan an additional savings in areas such as information technology procurement and public company costs.
We are on track to deliver our 2011 target of approximately $242 million of annual savings.
These savings are the first of 3 key drivers for delivering our long-term operating margin target of 20% in HR Solutions.
The other 2 key drivers are growth in the core business including HR BPO improvement and declining intangible amortization expense beginning in 2013.
Lastly as we continue to make investments in our talent and capabilities we are also making investments in certain back-office systems such as our Order-To-Cash platform.
With any IT integration there can be challenges and during the third quarter we had some temporary delays in invoicing certain clients in North America.
However this issue had no material impact on the results of the third quarter and we expect will be corrected over the next 2 quarters resulting in a better end-to-end cash platform across the combined businesses.
Now let me discuss certain line items outside of the operating segments.
Unallocated expenses were $44 million.
The prior year quarter included $18 million of costs related to the merger with Hewitt.
Excluding those costs unallocated expenses increased $13 million due primarily to a onetime $11 million unfavorable mark-to-market on certain company-owned life insurance plans.
Interest expense increased $10 million to $60 million due primarily to an increase in debt outstanding following the merger with Hewitt.
Other income of $7 million in the third quarter includes gains related to the company's ownership in certain insurance investment funds and other long-term investments.
The prior year quarter included an $8 million loss from the sale of certain businesses.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $5 million per quarter of interest income $35 million of unallocated expense and $60 million to $65 million of interest expense per quarter.
Lastly minority interest was $10 million compared to $3 million in the prior year due to stronger performance of our joint ventures and partnerships primarily in emerging markets.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations declined to 28.9% in the third quarter compared to 29.4% in the prior year quarter primarily due to certain deferred tax adjustments.
The company anticipates an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of 29% for the fourth quarter.
Turning to shares.
Average diluted shares outstanding increased to 336.9 million in the third quarter compared to 282.2 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to the issuance of 61 million shares of common stock related to the merger with Hewitt partially offset by the company's share repurchase program.
Actual common shares outstanding on September 30 was 323.3 million down 3.4 million from 326.7 million at June 30.
There are approximately 12 million of diluted stock equivalents.
The company has approximately $1.2  billion remaining under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2010.
Now let me turn to the balance sheet and cash flow statement to discuss the financial flexibility.
On September 30 cash and short-term investments were $902 million and total debt outstanding was $4.6 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital was 35.6% at September 30 compared to 34.9% at June 30.
Cash from operations excluding change in funds held on behalf of clients which has no impact on cash increased $296 million to $368 million in the third quarter compared to $72 million in the prior year quarter.
Stronger cash flow was driven primarily by the inclusion of Hewitt results along with improved operating performance and lower working capital requirements partially offset by restructuring-related cash payments and pension contributions.
Year-to-date cash payments related to restructuring were $131 million and the company anticipates another $80 million of cash payments in the fourth quarter.
Cash payments related to restructuring are expected to decline approximately $65 million to a total of approximately $146 million in 2012 before declining further in 2013.
Regarding our unfunded pension plans year-to-date contributions have been approximately $390 million and the company anticipates contributing another $90 million in the fourth quarter.
Because we close plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and de-risk certain pension plan assets pension expense is much less volatile.
Despite weak equity and AA corporate bond portfolio performance year-to-date we would not expect to see any meaningful impact to pension expense either up or down in 2012.
In summary we delivered 1% organic revenue placing us firmly on track for growth in 2011 despite fragile economic conditions and a continued soft market.
We are managing expenses driving operational initiatives across both segments and fully on track to achieve our long-term operating margin targets.
We have significant leverage to an improving global economy.
Our balance sheet and strong cash flow continue to provide significant financial flexibility as we repurchased $175 million of common stock in the quarter highlighting our belief in the underlying strength of the firm.
With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we'd be delighted to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Keith Walsh Citi.
Research Division</strong> I really want to focus on Consulting as Brokerage was pretty solid.
So just thinking about Consulting minus 2 organic.
Maybe you could split out for us how much of that is really related to the macro environment and how much related to attrition from the integration? And I've got a couple of follow-ups.
Sure.
Happy to do that Keith.
Let me -- and I'll kind of give you the clinical read on this.
But overall let me start with just a perspective.
We said as we worked to build our business over the years irrespective of economic conditions we focus on growing and building our business period.
And by the way we're making a lot of investments to do that.
And those investments not only effect the top line they impact the bottom line too.
And at the end of the day the full responsibility for growing the business is on me and on our team and we just -- we've got to do better operationally.
We are very confident in the plans we'll take you through those in a second.
But we just got to do better operationally.
And if you think about sort of clinically what happened a lot of this was economic headwinds.
There was a greater economic headwinds in EMEA and in the U.S.
In EMEA in particular the conditions got worse.
Basically a lot of uncertainty in EMEA as you'd expect right now and that led clients really to defer a lot of discretionary spend.
In the U.S.
poor conditions remain.
We thought they did a little better they didn't.
And the resulting impact showed up really in one area or 2 areas in particular.
One was in project-related revenue.
On the Outsourcing side it was down substantially.
And this is the area Keith that really is discretionary spend.
Things like support for M&amp;A or benefits changes et cetera.
And in the end that's a significant amount over time.
$13 million $14 million that's a significant amount in terms of the impact.
It also showed up the state of the economy around health and benefits on the Consulting side particularly on health and benefits brokerage in EMEA.
And then there were couple of onetime items that aren't going to reoccur that also flowed through as well.
But to your question this is all around sort of the overall part of the business in the end.
Unfortunately it's happening at the time when the core business is doing quite well.
And from an integration standpoint we see Consulting growth in the multiple areas: Asia Pacific global comp investment and Consulting Outsourcing growth has been very very positive.
In terms of new business wins we actually we're doing -- we've done better in this quarter than we've done maybe -- in any time over the last number of years.
And then the synergy capture as Christa described was very very good.
In fact on or ahead of track.
And so from our standpoint this has been a lot of the reaction to the economy in Q3 but I want to be absolutely clear that's not an excuse.
There really is as I said at the beginning this is on me and on our team and we said we're going to grow our business irrespective of economic conditions.
We expect modest improvement in Q4 and we're looking to that and we're just going to push through and keep driving the business.
But the core thesis is incredibly positive and incredibly strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Christa you alluded to being ahead of target on the restructuring savings.
Can you actually push those cost saves forward quicker to offset some of this underlying margin deterioration you're getting out of Consulting right now? I mean Keith we do believe that we are on track if slightly ahead of our original restructuring plans.
So we said we would deliver $229 million to $242 million of savings in 2011.
And we delivered $42 million in Q1 $58 million in Q2 $63 million in Q3.
So $163 million year-to-date.
So we believe we're well on track to doing that.
And we did have the $355 million of total savings.
Really fast forward those savings to really sort of set the business up and really focus on growth.
So I think we do believe that we will continue to improve performance and we're very focused on it given the disappointing results in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for Greg just in my words I guess second deal I guess done here with probably less than optimal results.
I know it's early days but so far -- and we seem to be tracking below the glide path implied when this deal was announced.
And I want to know what specifically is the management team doing to get us back on that glide path? And then in conjunction with that why don't we get the operating heads of this business on the call? I think you're the only broker out there that doesn't do that.
So if you can address those things.
Well Keith in stepping back as we thought about Aon Hewitt we're now a year into this.
We could not be more pleased with the underlying basics of what we pulled together.
The underlying client-serving capability is literally the best in the world.
The client reaction has been incredibly positive.
Our new client wins are doing exceptionally well as we look at what the growth of the business over time.
The integration has gone incredibly well.
And Keith from our standpoint could not have gone better.
Not only in the synergy capture but also how the teams come together.
So we would say the underlying client-serving capability is exactly what we expected.
The performance on the Outsourcing side and the Consulting side at the core level exactly are better than we expected.
And in the end we've got economic headwinds that are substantial.
And as I said no excuse.
We've got to deliver against those headwinds and we will do that.
And we've got the investments in place to make that happen.
And we are as confident as ever about Aon Hewitt and the prospects for this business in the future.
So from our standpoint we couldn't be more pleased.
There is a lot of -- a lot have happened over the period of building the business we're in the process of doing that and we're quite excited about the future in terms of what we're trying to do.
And in terms of colleagues on the phone you can imagine our colleagues have a great deal of input into this call in terms of what we do over time.
And so in many respects what you're hearing through Christa and I are very much reflected in the management team's approach and the view on the business.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
But it's important to hear from the people actually on the ground running the business day-to-day especially for a piece of the business that has become such as an important part of your company.
So just more of a suggestion.
But thanks for your time.
Well I appreciate that Keith.
We'll take it into consideration and I want to make sure we answer any and all question you got in terms of what we're doing day-to-day.
Next question Adam Klauber William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Also following up on Hewitt it seem like sequentially the expenses in Hewitt even excluding the restructuring were up over 5% 6%.
I guess what was driving that? Yes talking to the foreign currency impact there as well Adam which we can sort of breakout.
But we don't see sort of abnormal expense growth.
What you see in the sort of the margin impact is a significant impact from intangibles.
So intangibles had a 550 basis point impact on HR Solutions margin in the quarter.
We do see expansion as I said from restructuring.
The restructuring and other additional savings flowing through.
And then really the sort of the 3 things I noted in my script that impact margins of about $42 million in the quarter were an organic revenue impact to about $22 million onetime items of about $10 million and the investment at Aon Hewitt Navigators of about $10 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Greg if you could give us sort of an outlook on the P&amp;C rate environment going to 2012? Obviously there's been a lot of noise about moderate bottoming and even some improvement.
I guess how would you characterize the market? Yes.
I would say from our standpoint and again we look at this very analytically in terms of sort of what we see happening with the market over time.
We would go back and essentially say it is tightening.
But we certainly haven't seen the turn.
We were down roughly -- when we look at our GRIP platform overall and this is literally the placements we make around the world we were down roughly 5% in Q4 2010 about 4% in Q1 3% in Q2.
What we saw in this quarter was about down 2%.
So exactly as described we are down but at a lesser and lesser rate which is tighter than it's been in quite some time.
And then on the reinsurance side we're seeing essentially getting closer to flat as well.
But certainly there remains a supply and demand imbalance on capital.
And from that standpoint we're flat to down slightly there.
So that's how we see the rate outlook modifying a bit.
But we would still say that it's slightly negative to flat.
Next question Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have a question the first question would be on the Risk Solutions margins.
On the last call we discussed I'm looking at them on a year-over-year basis or calendar-year basis do you still feel like you'll be able to grow those margins in 2011 relative to 2010? Yes so as we look at year-to-date margins excluding the Paris lease and macro factors effect we think we're about flat year-to-date and we do believe that we will grow our margins in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in doing that calculation really we're excluding the onetime items of the first half...
Right.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then can you maybe elaborate a little bit on the life insurance plans what they are? Will they have any impact going forward assuming that the markets stays flat where it is today? I mean there obviously life insurance plans that the company owns that have a mark-to-market  impact assuming the market doesn't change then the mark-to-market would not change.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I guess I was a little bit surprised to see that the company owns them.
As what part of the operations does it own them? I mean it was 11% -- sorry $11 million in the quarter and it hasn't had a material impact previously and we don't expect it will going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it part of the investment portfolio? Yes.
I mean it was a set of insurance policies taken out quite some time ago almost 10 years ago.
And then sort of they're flowing through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you spoke a little bit about the reinsurance platform and the headwinds there or still facing it.
Now that we do see better growth with some of your major competitors when do you think that the spread between you and the competitors will start declining? Well we feel good about progress on the individual [ph] front.
Again if you step back and think about our reinsurance platform we wouldn't trade it for any in the world.
As we brought Benfield into the fold we -- and back to the kind of the idea of the deal model and sort of our original thesis behind bringing the firms together.
We are absolutely on track on how we brought them together and absolutely on track in building that business.
And as we watched it evolve over the last think about the last 4 quarters and think about net new business versus lost business it essentially has gotten better each of the last 4 quarters.
So negative in 2010 negative in 2011 slightly positive in the first quarter in '11 positive in the second third quarter of '11.
So the last 4 quarters the trend's gotten better and better each quarter.
And it really reflects the underlying value that we bring to clients.
When we line up our analytics and we help them understand how we can improve their return on invested capital for our insurance carriers and our clients here we win new business and that's what we've done.
Some of the discrepancy as you think about the size of our business versus some of the other competitors out there as there were adjustments in the first 18 to 24 months they made big differences for other competitors.
And for us they were just literally part of bringing the 2 firms together but now we are on a very strong track.
The treaty business is growing and it grew this quarter as well and feel very good about the trajectory of Aon Benfield.
Next question Brian Meredith UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here for you.
First I wonder if you could elaborate a little bit on the impact of pricing at Aon Hewitt and exactly kind of what's going on? Is that price decreases you're taking to try to retain the business? Could you talk about that a little bit and what the impact on margins is? Absolutely.
So first of all in terms of Aon Hewitt we obviously do have pricing impact in the benefits business in particular that's been very stable Brian for the last full 12 months so every quarter.
And it's been exactly in line or actually slightly better than what we have originally modeled in our deal model.
And that's being sort of offset by better win-losses.
So we are winning more than we're losing and that win-loss ratio is improving year-over-year.
So we feel good about the underlying health of that business.
Research Division</strong> But I just want to understand so prices are going down right? And they have been for quite some time and it's been at a very steady rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second question Greg wonder if you could talk a little bit about GRIP? Maybe take up rate we've seen so far success with respect to commission leakage and that kind of stuff? Happy to do that Brian.
If you step back we said GRIP is really part of our overall Aon Brokering strategy and if you think about sort of the way that's going to impact our business.
We have -- we think about sort of winning new clients we're doing more with those existing clients and increasing the yield per dollar of premium placed.
GRIP is really part of the overall Aon brokering strategy that helps us do that.
When we put GRIP in place almost 3 years ago now what we're really looking forward is trying to really understand our insurance -- our placements is better than anyone in the world could possibly do and GRIP has allowed us to do that.
In addition it allows us to help our insurance carriers think about how they can improve their placement whether -- how they target their placement how they accomplish that and we've been able to do that.
We've got 20-plus partner markets who are part of this platform who are finding it very very effective and helping them actually identify how they grow their business and build their business and it's been very effective.
And as we said it would be proven in 2011 we think we've more than done that and really scaled up in '12 and '13 and we are fully on track for that.
Next Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> One clarification as far as the savings go from the Aon Hewitt restructuring I think you said on the call it was $63 million.
But in the press release I see a number of $37 million.
What's the difference? Yes.
So Jay we said originally that the $355 million of savings that we would achieve in 2013 would be comprised of $280 million in restructuring savings and about $75 million in additional savings.
And so what you see in every quarter of this year is a restructuring savings number of $37 million in Q3 specifically plus additional savings of $26 million which gets you to a total of $63 million.
And that's been happening this entire year Jay.
So in Q1 our total savings number was $42 million of which $24 million was restructuring.
In Q2 our total savings number was $58 million of which $34 million was restructuring.
And so that same pattern is flowing through.
Research Division</strong> And I guess based on your view of the full year savings we should expect to see a number north of $100 million in the fourth quarter of savings? No.
We said we would be achieving total savings for calendar year 2011 in the $229 million to $242 million range.
So you can see if we add Q1 plus Q2 plus Q3 we add to $163 million year-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
That's helpful.
And then the -- it's a small number but you mentioned a $10 million write-off at HR Solutions.
What does that relate to? Right.
So there are 2 different -- there 2 $10 million of onetime items.
And $4 million of it Greg mentioned in his script around a onetime adjustment to revenue and there's a $6 million onetime expense item which adds to the $10 million impact in onetime items related to PCI in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one broader question just quickly on HR.
The HR Outsourcing business which is I guess a source of margin pressure historically for Hewitt.
Can you give us a sense of what's happening there that part of the plan was to improve those margins over time? Yes.
In the HR BPO business we are extremely pleased with the progress of that business.
When Hewitt standalone reported they had previously reported that business was a negative margin business.
And on track to be a mid-teens margin business by 2015.
We believe we are well on track with that plan.
Research Division</strong> Do you make -- you have positive margin on that business now? Yes.
Next question Mike Nannizzi Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on related to HR benefits.
So if you x savings and amortization what is the benefit margin in the quarter and how should we be thinking about that? Yes.
So we don't breakout specific benefit margins Michael.
But what I can do is say if you look at Aon Consulting in Q3 2010 that number was $55 million.
If you look at Hewitt in Q3 2010 that number was $110 million.
So you start off with a starting point to Q3 2010 of  $165 million.
You subtract intangible amortization increase of $61 million you get a starting point to Q3 2011 of $104 million.
We obviously produced results of $125 million and the difference between those 2 numbers is synergy savings is $63 million which would get you at the sort of out of the $63 million to the $104 million to $167 million.
And that difference between $167 million and $125 million reported of $42 million is made up of 3 items: The impact of organic revenue of minus $22 million; the onetime items I described of minus $10 million; and the investment in Aon Hewitt Navigators of $10 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just -- when I look at it and if I x those things out it looks like for the last few quarters it's been trending downward.
So I'm just trying to understand I mean is the expectation however you calculate it the expectation that the number that margin number for the third quarter that's kind of where you expect margins to be at that's you're kind of baseline and you're hoping to improve from there? Or I'm just trying to understand because it just seems like it's moving just moving in one direction.
Yes.
We don't think they're moving downwards.
I mean the intangible margin impact in the quarter it's 550 basis points.
So it's quite substantial.
Obviously axe intangibles the HR Solutions margin will be 16.7%.
It's a very strong margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question.
I wanted to understand back in the Risk business.
See you had a couple of relatively prominent acquisitions international acquisitions but the acquisition growth was negative in the quarter on the international side.
So I'm just trying to reconcile those 2 points.
Yes.
They're pretty small acquisitions Michael.
So I mean they're not really going to have a material impact in the quarter.
Year-to-date we've done about 5 acquisitions worth a little over $100 million.
They're pretty small.
We're going to continue to look at tuck-in opportunities over the course of any given year.
We've continue to do that and we'll add content and capability where it make sense for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just last one on the pension contributions any guidance on pension contribution expectation for year end given rates? So obviously we have a year-end measurement date.
So it's difficult to predict but we would expect pension contributions to be up modestly for 2012.
And then down every year after that to be fully funded on a GAAP basis by 2015.
Next question Meyer Shields Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think we're beating this one to death.
But when we look at the HR Solutions business the combination of year-over-year increased amortization expense and I guess underlying cost increases what should we expect that to be sort of in the fourth quarter? For the fourth quarter? As we think about margin for the fourth quarter what we would say is if you took that sort of $42 million and you kind of rolled it forward to Q4 that would have less impact in terms of negative organic but we expect that it would be sort of modestly declining in Q4 and that we expect our investment in Aon Hewitt Navigators to continue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
When we think about the pensions being based on what we know now flat on year-over-year basis is that dollar or percentage? I'm sorry Meyer can you repeat that question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
You mentioned earlier in your comments that your expectation because of the de-risking you've done in the pension plans is that will be flat on a year-over-year basis.
Is that as a percentage of revenue or dollars? That's in terms of pension expense.
That's absolutely right Meyer.
But basically because of the de-risking we've done and the fact that we've closed the plans to new entrants and frozen the benefits so we expect pension expense year-over-year to be flat.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's in terms of absolute dollars? Absolutely correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question if I can.
With regard to the capital markets transaction I understand that they're lumpy.
Is there any help you can give us in terms of trying to understand let's say the fourth quarter of 2010 divergence from a normalized run rate in terms of margins? Again Meyer just trying -- you're not coming through very strongly.
So your question is around margin for Aon Benfield or...
We did have significantly a higher capital markets transaction quarter in Q4 2010.
Got it.
Sorry.
So absolutely right.
And as we said before this is just both on the fact side and the capital markets side they just tend to be a lumpy businesses.
For example our capital markets pipeline right now is exceptionally strong.
We feel very good about it.
But it depends on literally when the deals hit.
If they hit in Q4 we're going to see some positive movement.
If they don't hit and they defer to Q1.
Then obviously that has a bit of a variable impact.
And all we're really trying to do is just highlight that for you in the context of the capital markets business the fact business.
That's just different from a patterning standpoint than what the treaty business is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I completely understand that.
I think it's great that you're calling it out.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what the margins would be if the fourth quarter of 2011 is and I'll put this in quote "normal" instead of above average like last year.
Our sense -- again as we said before if you go back and look at the overall Risk Solutions margin and how it's improving as Christa described we see fundamental year-over-year improvement in the context of that.
By the way this is just part of our march toward 25%.
We are making clear progress on that as we said in the last first and the second quarter.
It's the same program.
The same program we've had in place for the last number of years.
It's exactly the same program that's literally given us roughly 100 basis point improvement every year for the last 5 years and that's the program here.
And by the way up or down from the standpoint of capital markets that's not going to deter the progress on the march to 25%.
Next question Matthew Heimermann JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Hopefully these are quick.
But just -- I wanted to get -- just follow up on the compensation expenses and HR Solutions.
I have -- if I adjust out FX about a 2% growth in the numbers.
And I'm just -- and that's adjusting for restructuring as well.
So I'm just -- when you talk about the savings that you're seeing being in line that number just feels a bit higher.
So I'm just wondering the investments that you're talking about for Navigators as well as you mentioned I think Asia in the script are those mostly people? Are those other things? Yes.
But first of all the investments we're making are mostly people that's right.
But also your observation that base compensation expense is growing by 2% is roughly right.
We have an inflationary push on our expense base of roughly 2%.
And so as you think about the forces acting on the HR Solutions margin you have synergy growth offset by intangible amortization.
And for 2012 both numbers roughly match each other.
And therefore to expand margins year-over-year you really need to have organic revenue growth sort of 2% equal the inflationary expense-based push.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess I was getting 2% underlying adjusting out restructuring before adding in -- net of the savings there was a 2% increase.
And so that's where I'm struggling as I just relative to kind of the reinvestment expenses you mentioned for Navigators it doesn't -- it feels like there's more push there than there should be.
No.
I think there may be other onetime things going on Matthew because that's not how we see the numbers.
We do observe that there's an inflationary expense-based pushes I described plus the investment in Navigators and that is essentially the force that's acting on the margin other than the onetime item I described or the 2 items that impact PCI this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay maybe I'll follow up offline just to make sure my math is right.
The second question would be just can you talk about maybe what the pipeline looks like in HR Solutions from a revenue perspective versus what you're booking? And I just be curious obviously we had a deviation this quarter.
But just wondering what the forward-looking like relative to the reported? Yes.
We want to highlight it so you think about the deviation this quarter and again something we've got to manage irrespective of economic conditions.
But the deviation this quarter really was in -- primarily around areas of discretionary spend things that you can actually push off clients can actually make decisions to defer.
But the core business back to kind of what we do in the core business around Outsource and the core business of what we do around Consulting has been very strong.
So there's been no fall off on that.
On the Outsourcing side as I've said before the win rates were as strong this quarter as they've ever been against competitors and we feel very good about that the underlying intrinsics of the business now are progressing.
And then this is now on top of the investments we've made.
We've made a very explicit decision to invest behind Navigators and do it in a significantly way because we think the opportunity is really almost unprecedented given what's happening in healthcare in the world today.
So we see the basic platform for growth is very strong.
The investments we're making on top of it.
We realize we've got margin paying in the context of doing that but we feel like building the business for the long term.
It puts us in a -- it's just another add to an already strong platform.
So we feel very very good about that.
And if you look at 2012 revenue we see it getting back to flat to slightly up in terms of what we're trying to do here.
And again I feel very good about the overall base business.
Research Division</strong> Just more specifically I mean does that imply the pipeline is actually growing? It does.
And in fact we've got a projected trajectory on the pipeline over the last year and we're doing very very very well on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the other question is I mean I actually think the Hewitt acquisition made a lot of sense especially when you look at -- even though we're getting some deviations to return on capital.
It still looks actually quite healthy.
But I guess what is a little bit concerning to me is the performance we're seeing is clearly a bit different than at least to those of us in the outside are seeing and there seems to be a gap between how we're perceiving the business and how you're talking about it.
And I think I guess what do you think you can do to maybe bridge that gap? Because I think whilst the response that you're giving to questions are helpful to keep this point in terms of talking to people on the ground and also just in terms of the underlying data we have available to track your business -- being we're gaining less data today than we did with Hewitt broke out their businesses.
Just what are some things you can do to maybe narrow that gap besides the passage of time? No I got -- and part of this is be a little patient in the passage of time in the sense that if we come back we have very specific set of fundamentals that we look at and have looked at from the beginning around literally what's going to happen on the revenue side from a client development standpoint to your point around the pipeline and how's that's evolving.
And really our fundamental client-serving capability.
Can we look at clients in the eye and say we can help you in a way that no one else can identify that value describe that value and actually deliver that value.
And we've seen that actually be the case.
And that's why the pipeline is in fact growing from a client development standpoint.
And then on the cost side can we take out and get the cost efficiencies that we had anticipated coming in and achieve that.
And the answer on both of those fronts have been in fact stronger than we anticipated.
Against those headwinds around discretionary spend we saw a significant drop-off and that really is the disconnect.
That's it.
That is the disconnect.
And by the way the disconnect has real leverage in the context of what we're doing.
If you underline -- if the amortization is roughly the synergy and we have underlying expense growth roughly 2% as Christa was describing then we need growth to get the positive operating leverage.
To the extent we don't have that we didn't have it this quarter that's the impact you're seeing.
But that literally is the -- that's the disconnect.
What you hear from a positive standpoint is our confidence that we will build the business and continue to drive it forward it's not unlike a conversation this is most exactly like the conversation we had about Risk 4 years ago when the questions is around what are we doing on the Risk front how we are actually building that business and what are we putting in place to accomplish that.
And now 4 years later I think we've got a Risk business that really has a really strong platform with great growth prospects in the context of what we're doing and the investments we're making to prove the value in 2011 or actually it's being proven and now driven -- going to be driven out in 2012 2013.
Now in Aon Hewitt we've got a great team in place great leadership team and tremendously strong platform and we believe the healthcare issues in the world today and the pension issues in the world today are going to continue to go up and become more acute for our clients.
So the enthusiasm you're hearing is very much around that set of intrinsics which we think are quite strong.
And we understand the concerns of this quarter and we want to make sure you're clear we're going to address those concerns but there should be no question around the underlying strength of this platform.
It's just exceptionally strong.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe I would suggest then maybe there is some metrics similar to when you were turning around Risk whether they're reported in the press release or made on the call that are somehow consistent maybe to help put some numbers around things to give us a better sense of how you're progressing versus the metrics.
Because I guess maybe one of the issues we're struggling with is it kind of feels like the goalpost keep moving but part of that is we don't really know in an absolute sense where the goalpost should be set.
Great input.
And as we will always do input from all of you to take that in and actually come back with some views and perspectives on how to make sure you know exactly how the tracking is going as we look at it.
So I appreciate the input.
Research Division</strong> Not a problem.
And then Christa just a comment you made on the EPS change.
Does that mean you're going to be providing a supplemental EPS number to what we're seeing already? Or are you going to completely redefine how you're...
We're going to redefine adjusted EPS to exclude intangible amortization expense.
Research Division</strong> Could I make the suggestion? I think it would be helpful if you just provide a net addition.
Because I think one of the -- we're all savvy enough financially to actually look at cash flow and let that drive our valuation.
But I actually think losing -- moving further away from GAAP and how some of the peers report might not be as helpful as you think it may.
I appreciate your input.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want to say to everybody thank you very much for joining the call today.
We appreciate it and your interest in Aon and look forward to our next discussion.
Thanks very much for joining today.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Corporation's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our fourth quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Corporation.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
To begin we finished the year with a quarter that was both challenging and exciting for our firm challenging in a sense that the macroeconomic and industry pressure continues to be felt in many markets around the globe albeit at a lesser pace exciting in a sense that we took significant steps to substantially strengthen our global firm for long-term growth and value creation including the proposed relocation of our corporate headquarters to London.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
And we'd note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is overall organic growth performance; and third is continued areas of investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
Turning to Slide 4.
In the fourth quarter organic revenue was 3% overall with growth across Risk and HR Solutions highlighted by 4% growth in both Reinsurance and Outsourcing.
Adjusted operating margin decreased 70 basis points driven by an increase in intangible amortization expense over the prior year.
And finally EPS increased 15% driven by strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
For the full year organic revenue growth was 2% overall an improvement from flat in 2010 and minus 1% in 2009.
Adjusted operating margin decreased 180 basis points which includes 140 basis points of intangible amortization impact and the inclusion of Hewitt results.
Finally EPS increased 5% driven by strong underlying performance and effective capital management.
Overall we finished the year with improved organic revenue across our business delivered cost savings took significant steps to strengthen our firm and are effectively allocating capital giving us both excitement and confidence in our ability to drive improved performance across our key metrics in 2012.
Turning to Slide 5 on the second topic of growth.
I'm going to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% with growth across all major businesses.
As market-related conditions continue to stabilize we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and leverage to an improving economy with management of our renewal books through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction; new business generation of nearly $280 million across our Retail business with solid growth across many markets including China Latin America New Zealand and The Netherlands just to name a few highlighting the strength of our global client serving capability; investments in new products and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP Aon Broking and Client Promise globally; and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 3 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on individual businesses in the Americas organic revenue growth was 3% as pricing and exposures are relatively flat.
We saw solid new business growth in both Canada and Latin America and strong management of the renewal book portfolio utilizing Client Promise in Latin America and the U.S.
Results reflect strong performance overcoming continued market weakness in the commercial construction sector.
On the international side organic revenue growth was 1% as pricing was flat to modestly down on average with firmer pricing in catastrophe-exposed regions really a strong performance given the plus 6% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets and across Asia-Pacific including double-digit growth in areas such as Thailand China Japan and Malaysia.
U.K.
and Continental Europe continue to be pressured as economic conditions remain fragile across many core markets in the region.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 4% an improvement from minus 1% in the prior quarter and a level of organic revenue performance not achieved since Q2 2009.
The results reflect strong growth in our capital markets and advisory business and modest growth in our global facultative placements.
In our core book of treaty reinsurance the impact of the market from pricing and cedent retentions were stable and the underlying strength of the book continues to improve as net new business won was positive for the third consecutive quarter.
This trend in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's strong value proposition for clients while strengthening operational performance reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability a central thesis in the Benfield acquisition we announced roughly 3 years ago.
Overall annual organic revenue was minus 3% in 2010 now flat in 2011 and we're firmly on track for growth in 2012.
Reflecting on HR Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% with growth in both businesses a solid improvement from minus 2% in the prior quarter.
Performance primarily reflects strong growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as investment consulting healthcare exchanges and HR BPO.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 4% compared to minus 2% in the prior quarter.
We saw growth from both new client wins in HR BPO and from our healthcare exchanges.
Results were partially offset by a modest decline in Benefits Administration due to price compression within expectations in client losses.
On the Consulting side organic revenue growth was 2% with improved growth across most major practices from the prior quarter overall a solid improvement from minus 2% in Q3.
We saw growth globally in Health and Benefits and in investment consulting and results were partially offset by a decline in demand for retirement consulting.
Overall in HR Solutions we're pleased with our growth performance in the fourth quarter and would expect modest growth in 2012 across both businesses.
And while encouraged that we're beginning to deliver growth from our investments our priorities for 2012 focus on driving improved profitability for our investments and improving the growth profile in our core Benefits Administration and retirement consulting businesses.
Slide 6 highlights the third topic further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong cash flow continues to enable substantial investments in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: In Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the Revenue Engine in EMEA and Asia-Pacific as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates across our client base.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as our Global Risk Insight Platform which is the world's leading global repository of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have 1.3 million trades more than 65 billion of bound premium and a growing list of 25 insurance carriers utilizing the platform's analytics and service capabilities.
We're driving our Aon Broking initiatives to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk resulting in better economics for all participants as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
And finally effective January 1 2012 we're aligning our global Health and Benefits platform under Risk Solutions to better leverage a broader global distribution channel and to strengthen the deep brokerage capability in data and analytics with clients and insurance carriers.
As we discussed previously we have proved the concept of these investments in 2011 and as we move into 2012 and 2013 we're going to continue to drive greater scale and increasing operating leverage as a result of these investments in our Risk Solutions business.
In HR Solutions we're expanding our international footprint as the workforce is increasingly becoming more global with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
We're continuing to invest in expanding our core HR BPO offerings through point solutions opportunities such as dependent eligibility audits and absence management diagnostics.
And we're expanding our industry-leading benefits services platform from large market to middle market.
Finally we continue to strengthen our industry-leading position in healthcare exchanges enabling clients to prepare for ultimate changes in healthcare legislation with design purchasing administration capability.
In summary of our fourth quarter and full year results we delivered organic revenue growth across both Risk and HR Solutions made significant investments in long-term growth opportunities and took important steps to strengthen our global firm.
Our fundamental client serving capability continues to strengthen substantially around the globe and the firm is positioned for increased growth in 2012.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thanks very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our fourth quarter and full year results reflect continued progress to strengthen our industry-leading platform and the firm is positioned to increase growth in 2012.
We are managing expenses through savings from our restructuring programs generating strong cash flow and effectively allocating capital as highlighted by the repurchase of $828 million of common stock in 2011.
Now let me turn to the financial results as highlighted on Page 7 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items was $0.97 per share for the fourth quarter up 15% from $0.84 in the prior-year quarter.
Strong underlying performance and effective capital management more than offset a $21 million increase in intangible amortization in the quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in core EPS performance are highlighted in the schedules of Page 14 on the press release.
In addition foreign currency translations had a favorably impact of $0.01.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a modest unfavorable translation impact to EPS in the first quarter of 2012.
Starting in the first quarter of 2012 and going forward the company will provide adjusted results that exclude the impact of noncash intangible amortization and certain onetime items.
We believe the exclusion of noncash intangible amortization will more closely align external audiences and the company around cash flow generation.
We drive capital management and shareholder value creation through cash-on-cash returns.
The schedule on Page 15 of the press release reflects this disclosure.
I would note that EPS in the fourth quarter excluding certain items and intangible amortization was $1.16 up 20% from $0.97 in the prior-year quarter.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% and we delivered an operating margin of 21.8% on an adjusted basis essentially flat with the prior-year quarter including a 20 basis point unfavorable impact for costs related to the integration of the Glenrand acquisition.
On an adjusted basis operating income increased 3% or $10 million to $397 million.
The year-over-year improvement was primarily driven by an increase in organic revenue and modest benefits related to the restructuring programs.
Let me spend a moment on each of the restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the 2007 restructuring program we have incurred 100% of the charges necessary to deliver savings.
Restructuring savings in the fourth quarter are estimated $134 million compared to $128 million in the prior-year quarter.
Approximately $113 million of savings were related to the Risk Solutions segment.
The program is now complete having delivered an estimated $536 million of cumulative savings in 2011.
With respect to the Aon Benfield restructuring program we incurred $21 million of charges in the fourth quarter and have now completed 96% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
The remaining charges of $7 million will be incurred in the first quarter which will complete the charges under this program.
Restructuring savings in the fourth quarter are estimated at $33 million compared to $27 million in the prior-year quarter.
The Aon Benfield restructuring program delivered $122 million of cumulative expense savings in 2011 and is expected to deliver cumulative expense savings of $144 million in 2012.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3%.
We delivered an adjusted operating margin of 12.4% down 120 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter including 190 basis point unfavorable impact related to intangible amortization.
On an adjusted basis operating income decreased 6% or $10 million to $147 million.
The year-over-year performance was primarily driven by $22 million increase in intangible amortization; significant investment in long-term growth opportunities including our healthcare exchange business; and an unfavorable revenue mix shift due to an organic revenue decline in Benefits Administration and retirement consulting.
Excluding the impact of noncash intangible amortization operating income increased 6% to $209 million in the quarter reflecting savings from the restructuring program.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $25 million of charges in the quarter primarily related to workforce reduction.
Cumulative savings related to restructuring program in the fourth quarter are estimated at $43 million compared to $4 million in the prior-year quarter with additional synergy savings of approximately $27 million achieved outside of the formal restructuring program.
For 2011 we achieved an estimated $233 million of cumulative restructuring and synergy savings compared to $4 million of savings in the prior year.
Of the achieved savings in 2011 we estimate approximately 75% were realized in operating income before intangible amortization.
Realized savings were less than 100% due to approximately $40 million of investment in long-term growth opportunities and weaker performance in certain core businesses.
We are not satisfied with this performance and as Greg noted our priorities for 2012 are centered on driving improved profitability for our investments and certain of our core businesses.
As we think about 2012 we would expect to deliver improved performance as we progress throughout the year.
Before any adjustments related to the transfer of the Health and Benefits business we'd expect to realize approximately 75% of incremental restructuring and synergy savings expect to invest an additional $35 million in long-term growth opportunities across HR BPO healthcare exchanges and additional talent to expand our distribution and would expect intangible amortization to increase approximately $63 million.
In short including intangible amortization we would expect operating income to be down modestly through 2011.
Excluding intangible amortization we would expect operating income to be up modestly.
Turning to the next slide on our long-term operating margin targets.
Effective January 1 2012 the company moved the global Aon Hewitt Health and Benefits business from the HR Solutions segment into the Risk Solutions segment.
This move will allow the business to benefit from broader global distribution channel and to promote the company's deep Health and Benefits capabilities with clients and insurance carriers.
Additionally as we noted last quarter and mentioned earlier the company will begin reporting adjusted results for Q1 that exclude the impact of intangible amortization and certain onetime benefits.
Historical selected financial information for the years 2009 2010 and 2011 that reflect financial reporting changes for both the Health and Benefits transfer and for intangible amortization are provided in the press release this morning.
This financial information will provide comparability to results reported in the first quarter of 2012.
We recognize there are significant changes this quarter but believe these reflect greater transparency and focus our results on cash flow growth which is how we run the company.
Adjusting for these reporting changes our new long-term operating margin target of 26% for Risk Solutions reflects significant opportunity for margin expansion in the following 5 ways: first remaining restructuring savings and other operational improvements; second continued rollout of the Revenue Engine internationally; third Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
These 3 are fully within our control.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external market.
Fourth increases in short-term interest rates; and fifth industry improvements driving higher insured values or insurance pricing.
Similarly for HR Solutions adjusting for these reporting changes our new long-term operating margin target of 22% reflects significant opportunity for margin improvement in the following 3 ways: first deliver $335 million of synergy savings in 2013; second growth in the core business and return on incremental investments; third improvement in HR BPO.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on the next slide.
Unallocated expenses increased $5 million to $43 million including costs for project-related work.
Interest income decreased $2 million to $4 million due to lower average interest rates.
Interest expense decreased $6 million to $59 million due primarily to a decline in the average rate on total debt outstanding.
Other income of $4 million in the fourth quarter includes gains on certain company-owned life insurance plans partially offset by losses on the company's ownership and certain private equity securities and other long-term investments.
Going forward we continue to expect a run rate of approximately $5 million per quarter of interest income $35 million to $40 million of unallocated expense and $60 million of interest expense per quarter.
Minority interest was $3 million compared to $10 million in the prior year due to lower performance of certain joint ventures and partnerships.
We would expect minority interest to be approximately $8 million to $10 million per quarter going forward.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations declined to 27% in the quarter compared to 32.8% in the prior-year quarter.
The prior-year quarter was impacted by certain deferred tax adjustments and the improvement in the current quarter was primarily due to certain discrete items.
The company anticipates an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of 29% to 2012.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 337.9 million in the fourth quarter compared to 346.7 million in the prior-year quarter due primarily to the company's share repurchase program throughout 2011.
The company was not able to repurchase shares in the fourth quarter due to the subsequent announcement of the headquarters relocation.
Actual common shares outstanding on December 31 were 324.4 million and there are approximately 14 million diluted stock equivalents.
The company has approximately $1.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2010.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At December 31 cash and short-term investments were $1.1 billion and total debt outstanding was $4.5 billion.
Overall debt to capital was 35.7% at December 31 2011 compared to 35.3% at December 31 2010.
Cash flow from operations for 2011 was $1 billion up 30% from $783 million in the prior year due primarily to an increase in net income resulting from the inclusion of Hewitt and improved operational performance partially offset by pension contributions and restructuring payments.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less capital expenditure was $777 million up 29% from $603 million in the prior year.
Strength of the firm's free cash flow generation enabled more than $1 billion of capital to be returned to shareholders in 2011 through $828 million of share repurchase and $200 million of dividends.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we are taking significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and de-risk certain plan assets.
In 2011 we contributed approximately $477 million to our plans and would expect to contribute approximately $541 million in 2012 before any discretionary contributions.
Higher contributions primarily reflect a decline in discount rates.
We would expect the contributions to decline annually beginning in 2013 resulting in fully funded plans on a GAAP basis in 2016.
Regarding noncash pension expense we incurred $87 million of expense in 2011 and would expect a modest decline in 2012.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $178 million in 2011.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $23 million to approximately $155 million in 2012 before declining further in 2013.
As our required uses of cash decline over the next several years and free cash flow increases we expect it to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
As an important step in unlocking that value for shareholders the company announced it will change its jurisdiction of incorporation from Delaware to the U.K.
and move its corporate headquarters to London.
The transaction requires a shareholder vote to approve and is on track to close in the second quarter of 2012.
We believe the relocation will help drive shareholder value through providing greater global access to expected increases in future cash flow enabling us to access approximately $300 million of excess capital held internationally on our balance sheet upon confirmation of the transaction and increased future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term.
In summary we delivered improved organic revenue in 2011 placing us firmly on track to increased growth in 2012.
We have significant leverage to an improving global economy.
We are managing expenses and fully on track to achieve our long-term operating margin targets.
Our balance sheet and strong cash flow continue to provide significant financial flexibility as we return more than $1 billion of capital to shareholders and took significant steps to increase long-term shareholder value in 2011 highlighting our belief in the underlying strength of the firm.
With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we'd be delighted to take your questions.
Our first question comes from Ray Iardella of Macquarie.
Just a quick question.
I think first surrounding Europe.
I know Greg you had mentioned in your commentary there was some weakness in the international Brokerage segment from that.
But I'm just curious was there any headwind on the Consulting or the HR Solutions side? Ray as we look at Europe overall again the natural expected sort of headwinds are there as you think about sort of how the economy's evolving.
But we've been able to actually fight through those reasonably well really across the board when you think of sort of where we are.
We've seen on the HR Solutions side consulting growth in multiple places across the region especially when you compare to the previous quarter.
So we feel pretty good about that.
The headwinds are real from an economic standpoint where we're fighting through those.
Same on the HR -- or the Risk side as well.
And when we reported 1% we think about sort of where we were in the same quarter of last year it was really an incredible almost unprecedented quarter in terms of sort of overall organic growth.
So net-net we're cautious about what's going on in the economy.
We feel good about our ability to kind of fight against that and serve our clients.
Great.
And then quickly on the reinsurance brokerage I mean I guess part of the growth there has been driven by the capital markets business.
And I know 4Q '10 was a pretty tough comp and certainly delivering 4% growth there was quite impressive.
But could you give a little bit more color on maybe -- was it cat bonds? I mean what else might be driving that growth there? Yes look I think as you reflect back on Aon Benfield overall we feel good about where we are.
The quarter specifically we highlighted was capital advisory and some facultative side but -- which by the way drove a good portion of the growth.
But if you reflect on kind of the evolution of Aon Benfield and reflect kind of back when we actually brought together Aon Benfield then in the fourth quarter of 2008 we essentially said "Look this business is going to -- because so much of the renewal was January 1 there wasn't going to be a lot of movement in 2009." And in fact overall growth was about 0.
For 2009 we're roughly flat.
We're down roughly 3% in 2010 when a lot of the adjustments occurred at some of the rebalancing happened.
And then now in 2011 for the year we're 0% overall and 4% as you reflect in the fourth quarter 2011.
As interesting to us is literally over the last 3 quarters when we looked at business won net new business versus business lost we've been strongly positive for the last 3 quarters.
And what this just highlights for us is exactly the thesis we had going into this transaction and this combination was that the client serving capability of Aon Benfield was just incredibly substantial to help clients improve operating performance strengthen balance sheets decrease volatility.
And we simply just have --  we have a greater array of analytic capability than anyone in the world out there at this point and that served us very well.
And after the adjustments that I've just described the platform is actually fully in place and established for long-term growth.
Next question Keith Walsh of Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question for Greg is just around Brokerage margins just maybe a broader question.
Since you arrived in '05 you've grown margins every year except 2011.
So I guess when we think about the things you can control such as GRIP Aon Broking why aren't they moving the needle now that the cost saves are winding down? We're a couple of years into those.
And then I've got a follow-up.
Sure Keith.
Listen from our standpoint we step back.
We feel very good about the program and the progress to sort of drive into what is a 25% margin as we described before increasing now that we're going to -- from a cash perspective of 26% margin.
And sort of the -- and as Christa described the specific investments we have in place have we believe described are really getting -- have been proven in 2011 are really able to be scaled up in 2012 2013 and that's working exceptionally -- that's working very well for us.
We'd highlight -- by the way as you described while we were able to improve margins over the last 5 years we did it against significant headwinds and we made significant investments in the business.
By the way we're doing the same thing on the HR Solutions side when we saw opportunities.
So things like GRIP and others sort of were drags from a margin standpoint but were very positive from kind of -- at a capability-building standpoint.
So we are confident as we proceed in '12 and '13 '14 in our ability to actually drive improved margin going forward.
I think there are some specific things for the quarter.
Maybe Christa you could comment on some of those that actually highlight some differences there as well.
Yes so if we look at 2011 Keith in terms of Risk Solutions margin there are obviously 2 big impacts.
One was leases which is a 50 basis point impact and the other was the integration cost from Glenrand which we believe is a fantastic investment for us in emerging markets and is going to generate a great return and that was a 20 basis point impact.
As we look forward to 2012 we do believe we'll expand Risk Solutions margin and the growth in Aon Benfield that we believe we'll deliver will certainly contribute to that.
So we feel very good about the progress for 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up to Christa on the HR business.
I guess going back to the July 2010 presentation you guys expected adjusted GAAP accretion of 1%-plus in '11 and 5.4% in 2012.
And now you're telling us GAAP earnings are going to be down in 2012.
I guess relative to the original targets what specifically is causing this deal to underperform the original metrics? Yes what we would say Keith actually is that we feel better about the long-term outlook for our HR Solutions business than we did when we originally did the transaction.
And evidence of that is the fact that we are investing significantly more than we had originally anticipated.
We did mention that we've done $40 million of investments in the business in 2011 and we will increase that by a further $35 million in 2012.
And those investments span healthcare exchanges and we believe the opportunity for growth in healthcare is just enormous; our HR BPO business which we are extremely pleased about; and areas like investment consulting.
So we feel very good about that.
And as we look at the performance in 2011 as we said there is some underperformance in certain core businesses which we aren't happy with.
And we would say there's economic pressure -- there's some economic pressure from Europe.
And then we have some work to do to continue to improve our performance.
Next question Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First one on the HR Solutions business you did mention that one of the reasons for the weaker growth had to do with some client losses.
What's that impact you think going to be for 2012? Was it significant or was it something that shouldn't cause all that much of an issue in '12? Brian this is really the natural progression of the business.
We feel good about the overall growth prospects for the business really across the board.
We're cautious about the economics and the economic environment I should say that Christa described.
We feel good about the fundamental client serving capability.
On the Consulting side and on the Outsourcing side as well really when you step back and think about Consulting in particular in this quarter we really had growth across the board on almost every category: Health and Benefits global comp investment consulting talent rewards.
The pressure a little bit was on the retirement side as expected but really across the board.
The net new news here is what Christa just described.
The net new news is really the investments we're making against the opportunities we see.
We just simply see greater opportunities than we anticipated on the healthcare exchange side the HR BPO side the investment consulting side and we'll make those investments as a way to build long-term value for the business.
And that's what we're going to look at and then work against the natural sort of characteristics and price compression characteristics on the Ben Admin side which we fully expected as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then next question given the pricing dynamics going on right now in the commercial insurance pricing environment do you expect that to potentially be a tailwind for you all from an organic revenue growth perspective going in 2012? Well listen we've seen as we described and we've been very careful on this and we look at it Brian as you know quite analytically here.
As we look at GRIP and literally this is sort of the kind of numeric reflection of exactly what's going on in the context of the overall marketplace and I'll just go back to -- maybe I'll give you 5 numbers here.
In Q4 2010 the overall market this is across Aon's placements across the globe minus 5.3%; Q1 it was minus 3.5%; Q2 it was minus 2.5%; Q3 minus 1.9%; and now flat in Q4.
So we're seeing progression and that's against -- across the overall system.
Some ups as you would expect in cat-exposed areas some downs in areas like D&amp;O et cetera.
But that's literally what's happening across the system.
And when we think about Aon overall again we've made significant investments to build the platform for growth long term.
If you think about where we were in '09 '10 and '11 we're at minus 1% 0 now plus 2% and we feel good about sort of continuing that trend moving into 2012.
Next question Michael Nannizzi Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes so just if you could talk a little bit about the move of the Benefits segment over to the Brokerage side.
I'm just trying to understand from a distribution perspective.
How does that work? Or do some of the same brokers distribute both insurance product as well as Health and Benefits? And just a follow-up.
Yes this is really for us.
We're quite excited about this.
It's an opportunity with great capability we have on the Health and Benefits side.
It really was proven both Aon Hewitt and Aon Risk Solutions to bring those together.
And really it is about much stronger greater access to clients around the world in essence the Health and Benefits capability now being brought to many Aon Risk Solutions clients.
And in some respects particularly in the middle market they are the same buyer so that's very much a CEO CFO and so it's a great opportunity there.
In addition to that it gives us the opportunity.
They continue to work.
As you think about sort of what we've done with GRIP on the Risk side now we're adding Health and Benefits into that context.
We've talked about a $60 billion overall flow across the Aon system.
Now it's closer to $78 billion almost $80 billion.
So the opportunity to take very prudent approaches on the Aon Broking market side now get amplified doing this and the access to clients gets amplified particularly in the middle market and smaller commercial.
We are by the way going to continue to keep investing behind the large corporate arena.
We're very strongly positioned there and we'll keep doing that.
But we see this as really an opportunity to serve clients more effectively and are excited about it.
Research Division</strong> But from a just kind of feet-on-the-ground perspective does that mean that you'll have a broker kind of going into his client as well as someone who will be representing Health and Benefits sitting down sort of 3 people instead of 2 people? I'm just wondering just kind of how does it work just from a feet-on-the-ground perspective? Yes the mechanics really don't quite work that way although I could see where you're coming from.
Literally the mechanics are -- at the end of the day this has to actually ultimately get designed and then placed broked and then placed.
And so a lot of our ARS colleagues sort of reach out for that capability.
Now they've got greater access to fully branded Aon Hewitt capability but they would have had access before and we just got a much much more introduction.
So literally it's like this.
We're in the middle market where we've got the strongest position in the world.
The largest portion of our book is middle market small commercial.
Our brokers are sitting across the table saying "Wow.
I'm doing everything for you on the risk side.
I know we've got people challenges and Health and Benefits challenges.
I see that that causes going up on your P&amp;L " which by the way is a big deal in the middle market big deal on large corporate too.
And said "Listen.
I'd love to introduce you to what we believe is the best client serving capability in the world in health and benefits if it's helpful." And that's really how it's taken off.
And again this is something we've seen work quite effectively in multiple regions around the world.
It's exactly by the way how it works in Latin America and has for many years.
It's exactly how it's worked in some of our offices in the U.S.
already.
And so this is again in many respects taking a proven approach which we've seen work and now scaling it quite substantially around the world.
And I would say and observe is we've actually made the transition already where we're beginning reporting in January as Christa described but we saw H and Benefit -- H&amp;B growth overall in Q4 even as we are going through the transition so we feel very good about it.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one.
Just you mentioned Europe before so I mean can you talk a little bit about pipeline? I mean you said you're kind of fighting through the headwinds there.
What is your base case for Europe as you think about your business there particularly on the Consulting side? And where do you see -- where's your pipeline for business now versus where it was maybe 3 or 6 months ago? Yes.
We're still seeing good strong robust demand on the pipeline side.
It's just you can imagine in Europe clients are cautious.
They're concerned about what's going to happen next.
They have -- they might delay some projects that they would otherwise actually have done if they had a little more confidence or a little more certainty about what was going to happen.
But in terms of sort of engaging with clients seeing activity that's remained quite robust.
It really is just how we're actually serving them.
Our sense is we're going to grow flat to low single digits in 2012.
Sort of in the European theater we're going to push that across both the Risk side and on the HR Solutions side.
You know our commitment is to grow organically.
And while there are headwinds out there whether they're in pricing or economics or anything else we're going to work hard to push against those and feel like we can do that in 2012.
Next question Dan Farrell of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit more about the HR BPO business.
This is a business that seemed like what it needed to do is get profitability fixed.
It was not making much on a margin perspective and now you're putting more into the business.
Clearly you must think of something that can be corrected very much on the margin but also grow and I'm just wondering if you could talk about what trends you're seeing there that give you the increased confidence to invest in it and then also sort of what stage are we in the turnaround of that business from a margin perspective.
Yes so we would say we are very pleased with the progress in this business.
New client wins are up significantly and the performance in this business is exceeding our expectations.
We would say that it is a low but positive margin business today and it will get to a mid-teens margin by 2015 and we are well on that path.
So it's growing organically as we saw in Q4 and we expect that trend to continue into 2012 and it's well on track to get to mid-teens margin by 2015.
I might just also add as you think about sort of the -- this is -- Christa's describing literally the core offering and that's progressing very very well as she described.
And we saw that we anticipated that.
We've seen that throughout the year and the team's done a very good job on that front.
But in addition to the core product you might imagine there are lots of additional ancillary offerings that come with core HR BPO on the Consulting side in particular and we're seeing that benefit as well which is why we feel good about this business and look forward to continuing to grow it.
Research Division</strong> Just one other quick question.
I apologize if you've mentioned this already Christa but the pension contributions on a cash basis are those even throughout next year? Are they more front-end loaded? They're fairly evenly throughout the year.
Next question Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Could you talk about uses of cash next year? Are share repurchases still the priority? And as cash increases do acquisitions significant acquisitions become a possibility again? Yes so the first thing I would say just to answer your M&amp;A question is we do not believe there's a significant acquisition on the horizon.
We believe M&amp;A is going to be in the $200 million to $250 million a year range.
It's traditionally smaller -- it's smaller acquisitions.
So that would be sort of the M&amp;A.
But as we think about uses of capital and you refer to Slide 12 of the slide deck we posted you can see that there are really sort of 6 main uses of capital: pension contributions which is going to be $541 million in 2012 before any discretionary contributions; the second one is restructuring cash which is $155 million in 2012; the third is CapEx which is $270 million; and then we have sort of M&amp;A which I talked about sort of $200 million to $250 million; which then leaves sort of return to shareholders of dividends and share repurchases.
And obviously we did over $1 billion this year.
And as we think about uses of capital return on capital on a cash-on-cash basis is the metric we use to allocate capital and we think that share buyback is the highest return on capital across the firm.
And frankly if we look at our long-term growth of the business and hitting our revenue growth and long-term margin targets and uses of capital decreasing over time substantially over the next 5 years we actually see that the cash characteristics of the firm are going to grow substantially and therefore share buyback is even more attractive.
As we think about sort of the right level of share buyback in 2012 it is going to remain our primary use of capital.
$150 million a quarter is probably the right number to think about with a lower number in Q1 because it's our lowest cash outflow quarter.
Next question Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> On the Retail Risk Solutions business as we get into a pricing environment here that moves into positive territory how will clients react to that? Will they buy less coverage? And within the Retail business how much of your revenue stream is commission-based rather than fee-based? So what we've seen Jay is -- and again we step back.
We solve the risk issues challenges of our clients really very holistically.
So we actually help them balance both the cost of that including the core pricing as well coverage all the different pieces that go with that.
And you'll see some adjustment.
Certainly it's a mitigating factor.
As prices increase clients think about it but so is the range of coverage that they're having to think about now when you sort of think about all the traditional risks that our clients have to deal with now adding to that kind of nontraditional risk and the impact of cyber risk and sustainability and all the different pieces that go with that.
So for us it's a pretty kind of holistic picture.
On the margins as prices change it does impact kind of what happens with our book of business and mitigated by things as you described like client retentions.
About 70% of our book is commission-based and about 30% is fee overall.
So if you think about that so it's -- the changes in price will have an impact.
But again we look at it from purely a client perspective on how we can serve them best.
Research Division</strong> And then on the reinsurance organic growth in the fourth quarter how much of that should we consider recurring? I mean it seems like a lot of these capital markets transactions are sort of onetime in nature.
Well as we described before listen the capital markets advisory businesses are lumpy.
They go up and down.
By the way help us in some quarters don't in other quarters.
We just have an exceptionally strong capability here.
When you think about what we're doing on the cat bond side and the capital advisory side it's exceptional.
We're the #1 player in the world leading the market.
We're very much at the forefront there.
Same on the advisory side so that helps us.
Facultative can be a bit lumpy too up and down.
What I do want to emphasize is we feel good about our growth prospects positive organic growth in 2012.
And most important as you reflect over the last few years in sort of the natural adjustment that occurs when you bring these 2 businesses together given our size 2011 we believe has set the stage very well in treaty in capital advisory and in fact for growth.
Next question Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about GRIP Aon Broking Client Promise? How should we think about quantification of those both in terms of top line and maybe the margin impact? Well if you step back and think a little bit Yaron about how we've talked about this overall when you think about sort of driving performance in the Risk Solutions arena the number of clients how we're doing on new business our wins losses et cetera so we've got a great deal of focus around that a lot of efforts around the Revenue Engine.
We think about share of wallet literally what's the cross-sell how many products are we selling how are we doing it in a way that again back to Jay's question is holistic and really represents the best interest of our clients.
And then we look at yield per dollar of premium paid.
Really that's really the other piece that's absolutely critical in the context of this.
And so all the initiatives you're describing kind of fit into that framework.
And this is really back to kind of Christa's point on getting to the 26% now margin and how that's fixed your play out over time.
And in our view the investments we've made which have been true investments they have been drags on margin are really starting to show what we thought they would and seeing progress on yield per dollar of premium placed on Aon Broking and on GRIP as well as kind of client wins and losses sort of on the Revenue Engine.
In Client Promise by the way it's been fantastic.
We've been very pleased with sort of the results.
When we do Client Promise surveys and really understand holistically how we performed our retention goes up substantially and our new business goes up substantially.
And again we're just systematically listening to clients and responding with the full capabilities of Aon.
And on the Aon Broking side and on GRIP side as I described before on the yield per dollar of premium paid we believe there's substantial potential here as we kind of organize our firm to deliver for clients.
One great example is over the past few months we've actually pulled out a kind of a the tranche of risk call it middle market D&amp;O for private companies and been able to bring that to market in a way that we've got clients a much better outcome in terms of additions et cetera and in the context of that also done well for Aon.
So we have a high expectation for where we think this is going to go and continue to improve Aon's performance.
All these things are in Christa's controllable categories the first 3 she talked about.
Those by themselves we believe can get us to our target margin over time.
And if we get helped by some tailwinds either on the investment return side or on the pricing or insured value side that actually accelerates it.
Research Division</strong> Just so I understand looking into 2012 would those be -- those initiatives would those be a drag or a boost to margins? Yes they're going to begin to drive up.
So as we said before through 2011 on the investments we've really made in kind of end of '09 '10 into '11 we said we'd really start to offer some potential in 2012 and we fully expect that to happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Benefits Administration business clearly you're still seeing some ongoing price compression and pressures there.
Is that kind of the new normal for that business or do you expect something to change there? And if so what do you see the catalyst has been? Well this has been as expected.
This is a business particularly on the large corporate side that continues to experience compression in line with what we thought as we came into the combination with Hewitt.
But important we take note of it.
We really spend time with our clients to make sure we're helping them understand the value we can bring to the table and we're getting paid for that and we're delivering value.
But we're looking for things evolving that capability into the middle market.
Imagine middle market companies now that actually have much more compliance-related activities they've got to come up to speed on et cetera.
We can actually help in the middle market.
So the compression is real and meaningful as we said before offset by growth in new areas that we're trying to bring to bear to kind of offset that.
But that really is what we're addressing as we go into 2012 and think about how we drive the business.
So it's project revenue what we're trying to do in the middle market thinking about how we actually can continue improve productivity things we call point solutions which are specific targeted areas where we can help clients get better Absence Management as an example of that.
And so things -- those are the things we're trying to do as we would always do to improve the performance of the business through helping clients succeed.
Next question Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could take a couple of minutes and talk about year-over-year benefit or year-over-year changes in Aon Benfield's 1/1 renewals performance? I'm just thinking that that's particularly important over the course of the year.
Just hoping to get some color on that.
Yes.
I would say Meyer we would describe it as -- we feel good about the program the progress for our clients on the 1/1 side.
You would I'd expect would have seen some movements particularly in the cat-exposed areas of the world around the globe in which we have significant shares.
What we're not doing now at this point is -- on the Aon Benfield side we believe that the capability we've got puts us in a pretty unique position to serve clients.
So we're actually not sharing detailed forecast in sort of what's happened in 2012.
Again cat-exposed zones are up around the world but the policy we adopted was really not giving our pricing forecast.
And the reason for this is our ability to deliver better prices per unit of cover is we believe unique in the industry.
And so we don't want to -- we're not sharing that with anybody except our clients and by the way we're sharing it with them in some detail.
But again you can imagine the overall trajectories particularly in the cat-exposed areas around the world.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I understand that.
I guess what I'm pushing for and may not get is performance for shareholders in other words how Aon Benfield felt it.
Aon Benfield itself I think the best way to grab that is looking at literally the win/loss.
So you think about sort of net new clients won versus clients lost and we're very pleased -- and as we expected we believe once the overall set of adjustments were made as people readjust their books which by the way in the insurance world would take 18 months in the context of that because it takes 12 months to flow through.
By the way we actually do the recording of this.
But our win/loss over the last 3 quarters has been up on a dollar basis and up on a client basis for 3 consecutive quarters as we're into 2011.
We feel very good about that for 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other question.
I know with the restriction of the outside wholesale brokers is there economic benefit that you expect in 2012 from that or is that already in the books? Well listen the U.S.
wholesale piece was really around serving clients more effectively focusing around some preferred wholesalers who are bringing value to our clients in a very specific way and we've got 2 who are in that category doing very very well from our standpoint.
And so it really is about how we serve clients more effectively and less about sort of the basic economics.
Our last question comes from Michael Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the share buyback authorization will you be waiting until the second half of the year when the headquarters change is completed to resume repurchases? And related the tax guidance of 29% doesn't appear to show a tax benefit.
Then I have a follow-up.
Right.
So on share buyback I could say that I think $150 million a quarter is probably the right level with a lower level in Q1 because it's a higher cash outflow quarter.
That does not assume the relocation of headquarters which would give us access to an additional $300 million sitting internationally on the balance sheet.
In terms of -- so to answer you question share buyback will continue throughout the calendar year with Q1 being lower because it's our seasonally highest cash outflow quarter.
Next on the tax rate we are giving guidance for 2012 of 29%.
As we mentioned the 27% we reported for 2011 had some onetime returns that will not continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly if I look at Slide 9 the Long-Term Operating Margin Targets and tell me if I'm thinking about this the wrong way if I strip out -- looking at the change in intangibles.
So I look at the Risk Solutions operating margin target of 26% and I take out the intangibles so it's still going to be 25%.
And if I look at HR Solutions it looks like it's 22% but if I take out intangibles it's 18%.
So I'm just kind of curious do the margin targets x intangibles go down incrementally all-in? No.
This is literally a math equation just to back out intangibles and to account for the transfer of Health and Benefits.
There's no change in our long-term margin targets.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
Yes thanks very much everybody for participating on the call.
We look forward to our next discussion.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it's important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our first quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review and would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
And third is continued areas of investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
Turning to Slide 3 in the first quarter organic revenue was 4% overall reflecting the strongest rate of organic revenue growth since the second quarter of 2007 and the strength of our industry-leading platform.
Operating margin decreased 80 basis points driven primarily by significant investments we're making across our businesses to increase long-term growth.
Finally EPS was $0.98 including $0.06 of unfavorable impact from foreign currency.
Overall our first quarter performance reflects improved organic revenue growth across our businesses as foreign currency movement and significant investments to drive greater long-term growth had an unfavorable impact on bottom line results.
While we're not satisfied with margin improvement and working capital management in the near term we fully anticipate improved performance in the second half of the year are on track with our long-term targets and have completed significant steps to position the firm for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility as highlighted by the completed redomestication to London in early April.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 4% with growth across every major business.
As market-related conditions continue to stabilize we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and leverage to an improving economy.
With management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation of over $220 million across our Retail Business with strong growth across many markets including China Latin America Italy and New Zealand just to name a few highlighting the strength of our global client-serving capability.
Investments in new product and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP and Aon Broking globally and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 4 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic revenue growth improved to 4% as the impact from pricing and exposures are relatively flat reflecting a continued modest pace of improvement from a year ago.
We saw strong management of the renewal book portfolio across all regions strengthened by the continued rollout of Client Promise.
We saw solid new business growth in Latin America.
Results reflect strong performance overcoming continued market weakness in the commercial construction sector.
In international.
Organic revenue growth improved to 4% against pricing which was flat to modestly down on average overall including firmer pricing in catastrophe-exposed regions.
We saw strong growth in New Zealand across many regions in Asia and in emerging markets including double-digit growth in many areas such as China Taiwan and Italy.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe market conditions remained soft and macroeconomic conditions remained fragile across many core markets.
With leadership positions across the U.K.
and Europe we saw strong retention rates and the management of the renewal book portfolio led to modest growth across almost every region a solid performance given industry and economic headwinds.
In reinsurance organic revenue growth improved to 5% a level of organic revenue performance not achieved since Q3 2006.
Results primarily reflect strong new business growth in global treaty placements.
The impact of the market from pricing internationally was modestly favorable partially offset by higher cedent retentions as clients retain more risk.
The underlying strength of the book continues to improve as net new business won was positive for the fourth consecutive quarter.
This level of performance and the strength of new business generation continues to reflect the Aon Benfield's value proposition for clients of strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth improved to 3% compared to minus 1% in the prior year quarter.
We saw a growth across both businesses despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in Continental Europe.
Performance primarily reflects strong growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business.
In areas such as HR BPO investment consulting pension risk management consulting and health care exchanges.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's deep understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients such as health care costs and associated financial risks that will continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
The clients are increasingly looking for a global benefit solution that support global organizations at a local level managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And last after working through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual HR Solutions businesses.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth improved to 3% compared to minus 3% in the prior quarter.
We saw a growth from both new client wins in HR BPO Absence Management and from the investments in our health care exchange business.
Results were partially offset by a modest decline in Benefits Administration as client wins were offset by anticipated price compression and client losses within expectations.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth is 1% compared to 2% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw strong growth across our businesses in Asia.
Increased demand for surveys and services in our Compensation Consulting Group and strong demand for delegated pension risk management and investment consulting services.
Results were partially offset by a decline in discretionary demand for actuarial services in our core Retirement Consulting business.
Overall in HR Solutions we're pleased with our organic revenue performance in the first quarter and are on track with previous expectations for delivering improved growth in both businesses in 2012.
And while encouraged that we're beginning to deliver results from the investments we are making in new growth opportunities our priorities for 2012 remained focused on delivering improved profitability from these investments and improving the growth profile in our core business administration and Retirement Consulting businesses.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capability around the globe.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the revenue engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates across our client base.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as GRIP which is the world's leading global repository of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have 1.4 million trades more than $75 billion of down premium and a growing client list of 25 insurance carriers utilizing the platform's analytics and services capabilities.
We're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and the facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
Effective January 1 we aligned our global Health and Benefits platform to broaden our global distribution channel and strengthen these deep brokerage capabilities.
And finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia and Latin America in specialty sectors and in our GRIP Services business.
In summary as we have noted previously we have proved the concept of these major investments in 2011.
As we move across 2012 and 2013 we will drive greater scale and increase operating leverage.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our leading position in health care exchanges enabling clients to begin the shift of their participants to a market-based defined contribution model for health care.
Later this year we plan to launch our first multi-carrier health exchange for active employees.
We're expanding our outsourcing offerings in high-growth areas such as dependent eligibility audits and absence management.
We continue to expand our industry-leading Benefits Administration platform from large market to middle market.
We're developing new delegated solutions in investment consulting and pension risk management that leverage our total capabilities across advisory and delivery services.
And finally we're increasing our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia and emerging markets.
In summary we delivered improved organic growth across both Risk and HR Solutions made significant investments that will drive greater long-term growth and took important steps to strengthen our global firm.
With that said I'm pleased now to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our first quarter results reflect improved organic revenue growth across both segments resulting in the highest level of organic growth in the last 15 quarters.
While we are not satisfied with margin performance and working capital management we continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance deliver savings from our formal restructuring programs generate strong cash flow and effectively allocate capital as highlighted by the repurchase of $100 million of common stock in the first quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results as highlighted on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items was $0.98 per share for the first quarter compared to $0.99 in the prior year quarter.
Strong organic growth and effective capital management in the quarter was offset by unfavorable foreign currency movement and investments to deliver increased long-term growth.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization restructuring charges related to the formal restructuring programs and $3 million of headquarter relocation costs.
In addition there were 2 unfavorable foreign currency impacts not adjusted for but it's helpful in understanding the core results.
First the company recognized an $18 million pretax or $0.04 per share loss due to the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in nonfunctional reporting currencies.
Secondly foreign currency translation had an unfavorable impact of $0.02 per share.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a modest unfavorable translation impact to EPS in the second quarter of 2012.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 4%.
Operating income increased 2% and operating margin decreased 20 basis points to 21.4%.
Excluding the $8 million impact of FX in the quarter operating income increased 4% and operating margin was essentially unchanged from the prior year quarter.
Solid organic revenue growth restructuring savings and lower lease termination costs contributed to operating income growth but operating margin improvement was offset by significant investments in key talent across Asia and in our GRIP platform as well as $11 million of costs or a 60 basis point unfavorable impact related to both the integration of Glenrand and to certain project-related work in Australia.
We would expect these costs and investments to have a modest impact in Q2 and Q3.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the Aon Benfield restructuring program we incurred $8 million of charges in the first quarter.
The company has closed and completed all restructuring activities and incurred 100% of the total charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Restructuring savings in the first quarter are estimated at $34 million compared to $29 million in the prior year quarter.
The Aon Benfield restructuring program is expected to deliver cumulative expense savings of $146 million in 2012 compared to cumulative savings of $122 million in 2011.
Further associated with the transfer of the Health and Benefits business at January 1 2012 an estimated $46 million of restructuring savings under the Aon Hewitt restructuring program will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $18 million of the $46 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program including an estimated $18 million of savings in the first quarter.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt restructuring program is detailed in the schedule on Page 13 of the press release.
As Greg noted in his commentary we are not satisfied with flat margin performance in the first quarter.
As we think about the remainder of the year we would expect a similar performance in Q2 and Q3.
Through return on our investments remaining restructuring savings and lower integration costs we would expect a strong Q4 resulting in Risk Solutions margin improvement for the full year 2012 and continued margin improvement towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% operating income decreased 7% and operating margin decreased 180 basis points to 16.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Included was a $1 million or 10 basis point unfavorable impact from FX.
Organic revenue growth of 3% and $26 million of incremental restructuring and synergy savings were more than offset by $20 million or a minus 210 basis point impact from significant investments in long-term growth initiatives an unfavorable revenue mix shift as core Benefits Administration and Retirement Consulting declined modestly and a $13 million impact from deferred costs in Outsourcing related to the timing of large client implementations.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $9 million of charges in the quarter.
Cumulative savings related to the restructuring program in the first quarter are estimated at $40 million compared to $24 million in the prior-year quarter with additional synergy savings of approximately $29 million achieved outside of the formal restructuring program compared to $19 million in the prior-year quarter.
As we noted in the fourth quarter we provided specific comments regarding the outlook for the HR business in 2012.
Number one we expect improved organic growth in both businesses for 2012.
Number two we would invest approximately $35 million in new growth opportunities primarily our health care exchanges HR BPO investment Consulting and pension risk management.
Number three approximately 75% of the restructuring savings will be realized in adjusted operating income.
Number four expected performance will improve in the second half of the year as investment spend decreases in the second half from the first half.
And lastly for the full year with the transfer of an additional $26 million of savings to the Risk segment related to Health and Benefits and a more conservative view on discretionary spend for project-related revenue we would now expect operating income to be down modestly year-over-year with Q2 and Q3 down from the prior-year quarter and flat in Q4 before growing in 2013.
While we are not satisfied with our results in the first quarter we are focused on delivering against our objectives we laid out for the full year.
And we'll continue to push against each of these objectives every quarter as we strengthen our industry-leading HR Solutions business for long-term operational excellence going forward.
Turning to the next slide on our long-term operating margin targets.
We continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance on an annual basis.
While we've improved operating margins 500 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 26% for Risk Solutions reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 5 ways: Number one deliver $47 million of remaining restructuring savings and deliver other operational improvements.
Number two continued rollout of the revenue engine globally.
Number three Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
These 3 are fully within our control.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant leverage based on improvements in external market.
Number four increase in short-term interest rates.
Number five industry improvements driving high-insured values or insurance pricing.
Similarly for HR Solutions while we've improved operating margins 1 200 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 22% reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 3 ways: Number one deliver $91 million of remaining restructuring savings after the transfer of savings to Health and Benefits.
Number two growth in core business and return on incremental investments.
Number three improvement in HR BPO.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on the next slide.
Unallocated expenses increased $2 million to $34 million excluding headquarter relocation costs.
Interest income decreased $3 million due to lower average interest rates and lower average cash balances.
Interest expense decreased $4 million to $59 million due primarily to a decline in the average rate on total debt outstanding.
Other income included an $18 million loss due to an unfavorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in nonfunctional currencies offset by a gain on certain company-owned life insurance plans and distributions from certain private equity securities.
Going forward we continue to expect a run rate of approximately $3 million to $5 million per quarter of interest income $35 million of unallocated expense and $60 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes the effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations declined to 28% in the first quarter compared to 29% due primarily to changes in the geographic distribution of income and certain deferred tax adjustments.
We would anticipate an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of 28% for 2012.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 336.6 million in the first quarter compared to 345.4 million in the prior-year quarter due primarily to the company's share repurchase program.
The company repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for approximately $100 million in the first quarter.
Actual common shares outstanding on March 31 were 326.4 million and there are approximately 11 million diluted stock equivalents.
Subsequent to the close of the first quarter in connection with the completed change in corporate domicile the Aon plc Board of Directors announced the authorization of a $5 billion share repurchase program which replaced and canceled the previously authorized program by the board of Aon Corporation.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At March 31 cash and short-term investments were $833 million and total debt outstanding was $4.5 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital was 34.8% at March 31 compared to 35.7% at December 31.
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was a use of $15 million compared to a source of $155 million in the prior-year quarter.
While the first quarter is historically our seasonally weakest quarter from a cash flow perspective due primarily to incentive compensation there are several key impacts I'd like to highlight.
First included is a use of $118 million as Hewitt colleagues were transitioned from a September fiscal year end to Aon's calendar year-end incentive compensation cycle.
Effectively creating a 15-month payout for 2011 in 2012.
Second cash pension contributions net of expense increased $31 million compared to the prior year.
And lastly we continue to operate with elevated levels of invoicing and cash collections approximately $400 million related to a temporary delay in invoicing in Aon Hewitt which began in the second half of 2011 with the conversion of certain audited cash systems.
We are making progress and expect this temporary increase to return to normalized levels by the end of 2012.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx was negative $86 million down from $99 million in the prior year due primarily to lower cash from operations and a $15 million increase in CapEx year-over-year.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and derisked certain client assets.
In 2011 we contributed approximately $477 million to our plans and would expect to contribute approximately $541 million in 2012 before any discretionary contributions.
Higher contributions primarily reflect the decline in discount rates.
We would expect contributions to decline annually beginning in 2013 resulting in fully funded plans on a GAAP basis in 2016.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $178 million in 2011.
Our restructuring plans continue to wind down.
We would expect cash payments to decline $31 million to approximately $147 million in 2012 before declining further in 2013.
As we continue to grow improving operating performance and our required uses of cash decline over the next several years we expect our strong free cash flow growth to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
As an important step in unlocking that value for shareholders on April 2 the company completed its change in jurisdiction of incorporation from Delaware to the U.K.
We believe the transaction will help drive shareholder value through number one providing greater global access to expected increases in future free cash flow; number two enable us to access approximately $300 million of excess capital held internationally on our balance sheet; and number three increase future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term.
In summary we are positioned for stronger growth in 2012.
We have significant leverage through an improving global economy.
While we are investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we have significant opportunities to continued long-term margin improvement.
Our balance sheet and strong cash flow will continue to provide significant financial flexibility.
And lastly we've positioned the firm to effectively manage capital through the announced $5 billion share repurchase program and the recent increase in our annual dividend highlighting our firm belief in the underlying value of Aon.
With that I'll turn the call back over to the operator and we'd be delighted to take your questions.
Our first question comes from Dan Farrell Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the margin? I think obviously coming in a bit lower than I would've thought.
And there's quite a bit of reinvestment going on in the business.
And while it's a constant practice to reinvest it seems that it's running at a higher turn.
I guess talk about how much longer you think that goes on.
And then maybe expand a bit more on the revenue opportunities and put maybe some numbers around where you think that starts to ramp and give you benefits.
Well I appreciate the question.
I think the area of investment is obviously an important one for the quarter and really for the next few quarters.
As Christa described it's important you really do understand what we're ramping up in 2012.
And if you step back and think about what we are accomplishing with our investments what we've done with the Aon Broking investment around GRIP and the overall GRIP platform we believe is actually quite unique.
I do want to emphasize as Christa described our view is the Risk Solutions margin will be positive in 2012.
So in the end when we think about these investments in the trade-offs as we look at margin overall we look at it on a year-to-year basis.
And this is going to get reflected in this year.
But step back and think about what we try to accomplish we want to grow organically increase margins increase earnings per share.
And we're not just focused on individual quarters.
We're going to focus on the year overall and we are going to take steps to improve the foundation of Aon to the extent we think it can improve operating leverage.
These are the kinds of investments we have been making.
There have been a number that have been on the traditional side that largely the entire industry has been doing around adding talent.
We continue to do that too.
That's affected the quarter.
Those will pay off over time.
But what's different about this quarter is a specific decision we made for 2012 to ramp up Aon Broking and to ramp up what we're doing with overall GRIP.
And this is a very important question.
When you think about what we've done we talked about GRIP really for the last couple of years.
And what we needed to do first of all is understand our flow.
So $60 billion plus of flow around the world.
We needed to do the analytics behind it drove that -- by the way that investment got no monetization so we didn't get a lot of benefit out of that.
Then we had to actually introduce that to our clients around the world and our markets to really prove the concept.
And on this call and some individual conversations we talked about proving concept of GRIP and Aon Broking in 2011.
And we believe we've absolutely done that.
We've got 25-plus carriers who have actually come online and actually are making use of the data.
We've been able to actually launch a D&amp;O program last summer that proves what we can do on behalf of clients.
So Dan we've made specific steps to truly prove the concept around what we've done with Aon Broking.
And now what we're doing is we've decided we're going scale it.
And scale up means we're going to make additional investments in technology.
By the way we're going to add the entire Health and Benefits flow which is another $24 billion of flow.
We're adding some geographies.
We're making it more automated and we're putting people around it.
So we've actually got dedicated teams who are representing the carriers as they come online.
So each of the 25 carriers we've got various versions of dedicated teams that help them do what they need to do to actually better match their capital with our clients.
And the reason I'm taking a bit of time to make the point is this is a fundamental difference in the type of investment that I think has been made across the industry.
We believe is very substantial for Aon and that it improves our operating leverage but it also strengthens our client-serving capability.
In many respects if you think about what we were able to accomplish in 2011 we got quite excited about what we were able to pull together and realize that in our order to actually roll that out we needed to ramp up.
And that's if fact what we've done.
It's important again -- a lot of times when people actually bring people online or brokers online they're talking about a multiyear payback.
We know what this payback looks like.
We know what the pipeline is we know the revenue potential we know the cost to ramp up and support.
By the way we know there's going to be headwind as we ramp up but we also know in the context of that there will be positive margin for the year.
And what we're going to have in the end is we're going to have positive margin but we're also going to have a platform in place that is best-in-class around data and analytics with now over $80 billion of flow.
We've got revenues from carriers who get great value to serve our clients.
And we're going to get higher yield per dollar premium play.
So for us this is an opportunity to ramp up something that we've actually been working on for quite some time and you'll see benefit in year.
We could basically absorb the kind of proof phase of this if you will for the last couple of years but we're not going to be able to absorb the ramp-up piece.
But we're quite confident about what the overall benefit's going to look like for us and what it's going to mean for you.
So that's the difference.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on the Consulting side and the amount of investment going in there.
Can you put a number around the revenue opportunity from the health care exchanges that you're making investment in because obviously there's probably not much if any revenue yet? Well I'd say and I would contrast by the way you asked the question quite appropriately on investments.
What we just described on GRIP is different than what we're doing from the health care exchange stand point.
That's actually got a bit more of a lead time.
We're putting in place a whole series of things that actually will launch these exchanges both looking at the corporate side and on the retirement side.
And so it's going to take a bit more time but we see this as a fundamental opportunity.
This again if you think about what's different around Aon Hewitt from when we actually brought the firms together one of them is a very explicit decision to invest the better part of $75 million over the course of the couple of years in these exchange arenas which we think are going to be quite beneficial for our clients and quite beneficial for our shareholders over time.
But the lead time is going to be longer.
And in terms of the revenue Dan I mean we will see revenue in this year on the retiree exchange and the corporate exchange will sort of ramp up.
But we see the return on this investment being one of the highest across the business which is why we've made such a large investment.
Next question Ray Iardella Macquarie.
A couple of questions here.
I guess first maybe you can talk about a little bit about investments in people.
I think you guys have called out key investments in talent in the past couple of releases.
And certainly you know with some of the initiatives like GRIP you certainly need additional talent.
And I know you pointed to Asia on the Brokerage side.
But when does that translate I guess the talent translate into more revenue growth? Well so a couple of aspects on that.
As you think about -- we've been investing in talent and we'll continue to do so over time particularly as described in Asia and Latin America and the high-growth areas around the world.
And we see opportunity with the talent investments on this coming end of 2012 and in 2013.
But I want to contrast that with the people investment we're making in GRIP.
Those investments we're making as we ramp up we see benefit in 2012 with very clear line of sight of where that's going to come from.
And again I contrast that.
And the reason I'm spending a bit of time on this it's important you understand the nature of that investment around building the technology platform putting it in place bringing it in front of carrier potential carriers having them actually buy into it and come online gives us very clear confidence in sort of what it means to ramp that up and get benefit out of that.
And we see that from a people investment in '12.
And then the others are the more traditional.
So it's essentially adding 300 400 500 people across Latin America and Asia because we see big opportunities and that's going to take a bit more of time to play out.
And we certainly see the revenue from these coming in Q4 and we see the investments ramping down in Q3.
Okay.
And then maybe on the HR Solutions side similar commentary.
I mean is it back half of 2012? Yes.
Well what we would say is and I did say that we expect that operating income is going to be down modestly year-over-year in Q2 and Q3 and flat in Q4 before growing in 2013.
And really the investments we said were going to be $40 million in 2011 and an additional $35 million in 2012.
And that $35 million is really front-half weighted because we do see revenues coming in the exchange business in Q4 because it ties with the annual enrollment cycle which is at that time period of the year.
It's almost as if you think about literally the series of investment ARS Aon Benfield are ahead of where Aon Hewitt is.
Aon Hewitt has come online we've actually now -- we've got a clear sight of what we think we want the portfolio to look like where we see the investment opportunities to be.
Those play out a bit longer term as Christa just described.
And the others are going to yield benefits much sooner because frankly they're in a -- we've actually had a bit more time to work with them over the last few years.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe going back to GRIP a little bit I guess one of the things that I struggle with I certainly understand the benefits of the GRIP platform but towards I guess larger insurance carriers.
But maybe can you talk about the value proposition that you offer towards smaller insurance carriers because I think that really makes up the majority I guess of the carriers around the world? Well this is again the opportunity really is it's carriers around the world it really is about how we align their capital and where they want to place it with our flow around the world.
So again obviously nothing's ever guaranteed.
But to be able to match their interest with our flow is an incredibly powerful thing.
So if you're a carrier virtually of any size around the world and you have a view on where you want to invest and how you want to invest what GRIP does is enable you to actually get access get exposure get true connection to our flow in a way that you can actually apply your capital and win business.
And we've actually as we talked about proving the concept we've actually worked with large carriers and medium-sized carriers both.
And just for reference proving the concept 25 carriers is what we talked about.
We work with over 2 000 carriers around the globe so this a very large percentage.
We absolutely don't believe that all of them are going to engage in this nor do we want them to nor do they need to.
But we believe the opportunity is substantial really if you're a large carrier a medium-sized carrier or small carrier.
Next question comes from Adam Klauber William Blair.
Research Division</strong> On the Consulting business for margins to turn around 2013 do you need more than flat to 2% revenue growth? No Adam.
What we're really looking at occurring 2012 to 2013 is the ramp-down of the investments and the ramp-up of the savings.
And those 2 things will put us to operating income growth in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as far as GRIP I mean from what I've been hearing it's actually been very successful.
Revenues which you haven't disclosed but from what I've heard they're at least north of $100 million and maybe materially more than that.
I'm not asking you to validate that but why isn't that more margin accretive if the revenues are becoming substantial? And then number two because it has been very successful at some point will you give us an idea what the revenues are? Yes.
I think as we said back again we wanted to be -- we want to first be very careful in terms of how we put items in place that will actually improve our ability to serve our clients which GRIP does.
Support our markets and our carriers which GRIP does.
And as we said before kind of proving the concept and making sure that we could provide value to both those constituents with very sophisticated large carriers medium-sized carriers and carriers around the world is exactly what we wanted to do.
Obviously for competitive reasons I know this is going to be pretty sensitive in terms of sort of how we think about this.
But over time we as we said before are doing this because we think it gives us a fundamentally better platform.
These analytics help our clients very substantially and the markets very substantially and it improves our operating leverage.
So in essence if you think about sort of our ability to improve margin as Christa described before on lower levels of growth we believe quite strongly that GRIP will help us do that.
And so why isn't it showing up in 2012 if that's the case? And this is really the ramp-up.
So this is a fundamental decision taken by Aon and its leadership team over the last couple of years to invest behind what we believe is a unique data set in the world today to operationalize it and actually get it in front of clients in a way that we can actually monetize it.
It's taken us a period of time to do that.
By the way I wish we would have -- I wish we could have done it faster and we could have done it in months instead of a couple of years but it's taken that time to actually pull all this together.
And what you see now is the ramp up and that's really the first 3 quarters.
But we also want to highlight maybe slightly different in most "investments" that are made sort of in the brokerage world in which you bring in a broker and talk about an 18- to 24-month payback.
We know what this looks like and we said we're going to have positive brokerage margin in 2012 which highlights sort of how this could be accretive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up question.
As far as organic growth in the Risk Solutions business Americas was up.
Is part of that driven by the U.S.
doing better with better rate and exposure? And given that rate and exposure seems to build would you continue -- would you expect that to continue to do better throughout the rest of the year? Yes.
I would say first of all Americas is up 4% international is up 4% and we feel good about -- we always want to grow more but we feel good about this from the standpoint.
When you think about our European book which is very very substantial for us disproportionately substantial -- and by the way the renewal for that is about 50% in the first quarter.
So that had a bit of a drag when you think about all the things that are going on in Europe.
Although our European colleagues did a remarkable job.
Then the Americas as you said up 4%.
U.S.
was not really impacted by the market.
We had minimal price impact in the U.S.
It was really management of the renewable book and what we've done with Client Promise and a number of other things that's really helped us.
We looked at something called rollover which is you keep the client literally what happens to the revenue in the context of that.
And that improved -- that's really what helped us.
New business was roughly flat across the board.
Retention was strong rollover was up and it was really driven by management actions here more than it was the overall market.
We think we've got a lot of leverage still out there to GDP pricing improvement if it shows up over time but we didn't see it as much in Q1.
Next question Jay Cohen BofA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess on the HR Solutions business so the guidance seems to have I guess come down a little bit for this year relative to what you've talked about last quarter.
And I'm wondering what changed in the last 3 months to cause that? Yes.
Jay there are really 2 things that changed.
We transferred $26 million of savings to the Risk Solutions segment related to Health and Benefits and we have a slightly more conservative view on discretionary spend for project-related revenue.
And so we'd now expect operating income to be down modestly year-over-year whereas -- I did say in Q4 that we thought it will be up modestly year-over-year.
And we certainly believe that it will grow in 2013 as the investments ramp down and the savings ramp up.
And we improved the core business performance.
Research Division</strong> But the transfer of the savings you kind of knew about before? Yes.
I mean I think as we sort of -- as we transfer that business and allocated the savings I think it's really sort of $26 million of the savings were delivered in Q1 and I think we've got an incremental $26 million of savings that are going to come through.
And so I think having seen the savings come through in Q1 I think it's just giving us a better clarity to the amount of savings that are going to happen related to the Health and Benefits business.
I would highlight Jay as Christa said the savings came over so I think they're going to show up throughout the year.
But this has not been a trivial exercise.
It's $720-plus million of revenue that moved over.
We weren't sure exactly sort of what specific pieces.
We now have much more clarity on exactly what it means to the penny that sort of bring this business over.
So that's really what we actually -- we upped.
I would reflect as you step back really I think to the core of your question is how are we feeling about the business long term? And I would say that remains unchanged.
We've got sort of timing and movement in the middle.
There have been some deal model changes around H and B in which we made a decision as Christa described core business we've talked about.
But long term we feel very positive about where we are with Aon Hewitt and how's it evolving over time.
And again this is -- you can look at the movie go back and look at what's happened in Aon Benfield go back and look what's happened -- and see what we're doing with GRIP now and what we're doing with Aon Risk Solutions.
Aon Hewitt's sort of the next in the line and we see that progressing.
There'll be puts and takes but we see it progressing very well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other topic is on the Risk side.
I guess what's a little frustrating is that you guys did a really great job of improving margins over many years in what was a horrendous environment.
And the environment certainly feels a lot better.
So of course the expectation has been you would see much more significant margin improvement when this environment has finally arrived.
But you've been investing all along.
Is [ph] the investment incrementally higher could you say you were under investing for a couple of years in retrospect? I guess can you address that frustration that people have? So I first of all Jay fully understand the frustration and sort of particularly quarter-to-quarter movement and margin improvement.
And I would ask you to do the following.
Step back think about sort of how this has worked over time sort of on the Risk Solutions side 320 basis point improvement from 2007 a 500 basis point improvement in 2005 against the headwinds that you described.
In that context we invested a lot.
By the way we also had a lot of restructuring savings that we could absolutely absorbed.
As those wound down we still have some left.
We took full advantage of that in our view invest more heavily in the business than we think probably anyone in the industry.
And in fact it didn't show up in quarter-to-quarter it shows up over time.
The biggest investment we've made sort of outside of the traditional adding talent is the investment in growth.
And what you're really starting to see is the confidence we've got to ramp that up.
And what we're essentially saying is that ramp-up happens in '12 and yet you're still going to see margin improvement in '12 even with that ramp-up and then you're going to see substantial operating leverage in '13.
So I understand your frustration quarter-to-quarter but I'd ask you to step back and say in the end when you get done with 2012 we're going to have GRIP basically ramped up; Aon Broking fully online a platform which is we believe fundamentally higher leverage platform from an operation standpoint than anything we've ever had before; client-serving capability that we think is going to be stronger; and our ability to connect with markets and generate revenue streams to support markets which is also stronger and unique.
And while we'd always love to produce quarter-to-quarter we will take that trade to get to that position for 2012 and establish 2013 to '14.
It's just something that we're going to do to build our firm long term.
And Jay I'd say as we allocate capital we think about return on capital as the right metric.
And as the growth prospects improve in our business the return on capital of these investments also improves.
And therefore we're actually investing more.
And so I think that's what you're really seeing in this calendar year.
Next question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions here for you.
First one Greg I was hoping -- or Christa you could talk a little bit about the impact of the price competition in the Benefits Administration business on your organic revenue growth.
Kind of what you expect it's going to be going forward as well as on margins? Kind of what's the headwind from that? Yes.
Brian we continue to see pricing competition in the Benefits Administration business.
It's exactly in line with what we originally modeled when we did the deal and it's been fairly consistent over the last 3 years.
It hasn't got materially better but it hasn't got materially worse.
And so what I would say is that is absolutely impacting core business performance and we continue to talk about that.
The other thing I would say though is project revenue which is high-margin revenue is not offsetting this.
And that was one of the things we had originally anticipated to offset this pricing competition.
And so I think that's really sort of the impact in this calendar year that's different from what we had originally modeled.
Research Division</strong> When do you anticipate project revenue to start picking up again? I think we would expect that it correlates with the economic growth it correlates with M&amp;A and we would expect that to occur Q4 and 2013.
In many respects Brian if you think about where we are this is no different than the question is there a competition in Aon Benfield for our treaty business? Is there competition in Aon Risk Solutions for large corporate arenas et cetera? These are the things we do every day.
There is definitely price competition it will always be there.
We're going to always come back and go to the market around Aon offering that we believe is highly value-oriented and highly value-based.
Our objective is to deliver more value per dollar than anyone else.
That means we should have a price premium.
We have to support that price premium with real value.
And that's really what we're working through with our team and they're doing a great job at sort of reacting to the market and coming back with different ideas and perspectives.
The good news about this sector just like it is on the Risk side is you step back and say fundamentally is there real client demand.
Our client -- do clients need to actually do something about health and benefits growth cost growth that shows up in their P&amp;L every year and the answer is yes.
Do they need to do something about pension and pension challenges? Yes.
Can you do something about the talent side and the rewards side? Yes.
So we see client demand high competition similar as we see across our businesses and it's our job to react to it and deal with it.
Research Division</strong> And then second question Christa can you talk about when should we start seeing the benefits in your tax rate from the redomestication? And maybe give us some numbers around potentially how much? Yes.
So Brian we've said we expect significant reduction in the global effective tax rate over the long term and we've said that is similar to what we've achieved over the last 5 years which is really a sort of a 500 basis point reduction and in line with certain global competitors.
And we do expect the global effective tax rate for calendar year 2012 to be 28%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- but the 500 basis points should be coming off of 2011 tax rate right? Correct.
And it will happen over the long term Brian.
Next question comes from Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to follow-up on Jay's question earlier on the Risk Solutions side.
So granted looking backwards there's a bit of a frustration which I'm sure you feel as well.
But frustration also sometimes breeds some concern.
Looking forward I understand that the investments in GRIP will slow down but clearly you're not going to rest on your laurels you're going to look for further improvements and further investment in the business.
So how should we think about margins as new initiatives come around? Should we still expect kind of the 26% target to be intact? Do you have any ideas as to how much time it would take to get there with continued investments? Yes.
Listen the 26% next step that we've described -- by the way in the next step of our evolution on the margin side is in full force and we have absolute focus on achieving it and aim to improve operating margin risk margin every year until we get to the 26%.
Then we'll come back and talk to you about sort of where we are from there.
But we Yaron see really the investments we're making this year and what we're able to do in GRIP actually in our view increases the probability substantially.
I think we're marching our way toward 26%.
And we've essentially said irrespective of market conditions irrespective of investments over time.
Repeat that market conditions and investments over time we're going to get to a 26% margin.
If you go back and look at our history what we've been able to achieve we'll see how 2012 plays out and where we are in 2013.
But I want to emphasize 26% is the next step in the journey.
And we think -- what we were able to achieve in 2011 we're actually quite excited about in terms of the opportunity and excited about how it's going to play out in '12 and set the stage for '13 and '14.
And we would say Yaron that on the journey's 26% the single biggest contributor to it is the Aon Broking initiative and the investments we're making in GRIP.
And so that's why we feel so confident about getting to the 26% margin.
I mean one of the things I would say is if we were -- one we're backing off.
You'd say we made these investments let's see what happens.
We essentially say we're ramping up these investments and we're going to get margin improvement in 2012.
The and there is quite important.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Consulting side clearly you're making a lot of investments in the health care exchanges as well.
What happens if in June the Supreme Court ends up repealing or deciding that the mandate is not constitutional or anything of that nature? Does that affect the timing of revenue ramp-up? Does it affect the magnitude of revenues that you expect coming in? Yes.
I think in the end -- you never know exactly how this is going to play out and what decisions are going to get made.
We come back to the fundamentals.
And the fundamentals here are literally is there going to be health care out there? Yes.
Is there going to be a need for companies to play a role in that in helping their employees? Yes.
And will there be a big need for advice to increase that we'll have to ramp up as employers are trying to navigate in the new world? And we think in almost every case the answer to that is yes.
That's going to be very very positive from that standpoint.
And we don't believe the Supreme Court ruling is going to have a material impact on the business overall.
It could affect the timing plus or minus.
But overall we think the majority of what we do for clients continues to stand irrespective of the outcome of the overall decision.
Next question comes from Matthew Heimermann JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of clarification questions.
One just on the -- thinking about buybacks for the year you gave guidance in 4Q when you reported 4Q in early February.
Previously you'd made a comment that once the deal closed you get access to $300 million of international cash and that could be used for buybacks.
I just wanted to make sure that in fact the plan still was to use that $300 million and just -- is it fair to think about kind of a 12-month time horizon in terms of potentially incrementally laying that into your buyback expectation? Yes.
So for 2012 we had said that we do approximately $100 million in Q1 and $150 million per quarter from Q2 to Q4 with potential for the $300 million of additional purchase using the excess capital in the balance sheet.
And there is no change to that guidance.
I don't think it's in our best interest to provide specific guidance on the timing.
But it is worthwhile saying that any incremental use of cash flow or excess capacity including the $300 million of cash held internationally will be evaluated and allocated on the highest return on invested capital.
And we continue to believe that share buyback is the highest return on capital across the firm because we look at the long-term growth prospects for Aon and we have an internal valuation which is substantially higher than where we're trading at today and we will be opportunistic about taking advantage of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well just I guess without telling I'm not looking for quarter per se but if the stock trades here let's say over the next 12 months is 12 months a reasonable time frame if that's your highest return on capital option? Yes.
I mean again we're not going to provide specific timing and guidance.
But of course if it's our highest return on capital then we will take advantage of any opportunities.
And history's a very good guide of future behavior.
Research Division</strong> Well it just kind of sound -- it sounded when you talked about it before like it was a no-brainer it would happen.
The way talked about it now makes it sound like it's a little bit more.
.
.
I would go back to what I said before which is there is no change in guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Other question I had was just in the reinsurance business.
Could you maybe give us a sense of what's happening in the treaty growth side property versus casualty? And I guess the reason I'm asking is you made a comment about retention cutbacks being a headwind and I'm just -- my suspicion would be that that might continue to be more of a casualty issue than a property issue but just any color there would be great.
And also just whether or not capital markets was incremental to the quarter or not? Yes.
So Aon Benfield as we described drove 5% organic for the quarter which is the best we've done in quite some time.
The real -- when you think about that overall impact market impact was a piece of it but it was relatively smaller very low single digits.
By the way it was a bit pricing but also by retention as we described before.
By far the biggest impact on the quarter was the treaty book.
So it wasn't fact [ph] and it wasn't capital markets it was the treaty book.
And it was really new business over lost business from that period of time.
And that's really what drove the growth of the quarter.
If you think about the property book for us about 70% of the book overall and the new business is really all from properties.
We've thought about sort of what we've done and the team's just done a great job.
Really as we brought the firms together and described before -- essentially the first year was sort of clients really couldn't react because we were so close to the renewal deadlines in 2009.
2010 they kind of did their adjustments.
2011 we really saw the beginning of the ramp up.
Where we were winning more and more new business.
And what you saw this quarter was not really market as much as it was new business generation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any -- on the loss side how are retention trends year-on-year? Yes.
Retention trends have been very very good year-on-year in fact increasing and really has been one of the issues we've had to deal with.
So as these prices gone up and retention has sort of burned back about half of that when you think about sort of what we're looking at for the quarter overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just can I get the ending common share count? Say again? Yes.
Share count hang on just a minute.
So share count as at March 31 was 326.4 million.
Next question Meyer Shields Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think the specificity that you're giving in terms of the expense is helpful in alleviating the frustration everyone's been talking about so I'm going to push for little bit more.
I guess over the past few years you've had the investment expenses associated with building GRIP.
In addition to the ramp up now should we expect that former category to ease up in 2013? Yes.
In fact great question.
Literally this has come online.
If you think about what you have to do you step back and basically realize you're running on top of the better part of $60 billion of flow didn't really know exactly how it'd come together and how it would fit and how you could actually bring it to the marketplace.
So there's a set of analytics that again you don't really get a chance to monetize as you pull that together you just absorb that.
That's substantial but not as substantial as the ramp up.
And then you actually take it to market.
You prove the concept for 25 markets and you prove the concept and being able to actually offer different panels and offerings in the market place which we did last summer.
And then you basically say then we need to ramp it up which is the final set of technology investments to broaden it.
By the way one of the reasons we brought the Health and Benefits business over is we literally give a chance to bring now the $24 billion of Health and Benefits flow into this fold which is fantastic.
And we're now working on doing that expanding it more globally and then adding the people around it.
But to your specific point once that's done we've got the platform in place.
And the costs associated is much more variable with the additional revenue that comes with that.
So again it's back to the opportunity here to both strengthen our client-serving capability strengthen how we link to the markets and very important and improve operating leverage in the business.
Obviously we don't give guidance here in terms of what this is going to be but we see real opportunity in terms of sort of what it's going to create for us overall.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any chance I could ask for -- not so much guidance but what the annual investment expense run rate has been? Well we said before we really -- it's really part of the overall program.
We don't give it out and break it out specifically.
What we would come back and say is the way you hold our feet to the fire is you look at brokerage margin year-over-year and that's we've got to include in our increase.
And margins have been up substantial.
If you think about sort of what we've been able to do over the last few years and we have very high expectations on what we're going to be able to do over the next few years with this one opportunity.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can drill down into one comment in the press release where you talked about reduced retirement discretionary spend in the quarter.
I guess that surprised me because I didn't know that pension deficits were getting better.
So if you could talk about what maybe macro factors are impacting the retirement revenues.
Yes.
So as we think about our retirement consulting business and the transition from DB to DC then there really is a decline in that sort of actuarial business which is being offset by the investments we're making in investment consulting.
And that is why we're making the investments in investment consulting because it's a very high area of growth to help clients navigate managing pension risk and thinking through their portfolio and their unfunded liabilities and managing that volatility correctly.
Our last question comes from Larry Greenberg Langen McAlenney.
Just to beat the GRIP questions into the ground.
Just curious is it a fair conclusion that you're saying your -- I know you're not giving any specific numbers but your 2013 risk margin will be higher than it otherwise would have been without this ramp up in investments? And then secondly does this accelerate the time at which you're going to reach your 26% target? Larry by the way happy to beat this one into the ground as long as you'd like to do because this is certainly something we focus a lot on and it's very important we think to the continued progression at Aon.
First of all it does accelerate the movement.
This is a step we wanted to take.
Again that improves our client-serving capability our market-facing capability and increases leverage in the business.
And as we said if you think about it we're not only going to make investments in '12 we're going to get the ramp-up investments we're going to get yield in '12.
So operating margin we said our Risk Solutions margin will increase in '12.
And then in '13 obviously it'll have a positive impact perhaps even a more positive impact in '13 than in '12 because you won't have the continued ramp-up costs.
Those will have stabilized and you'll have the benefit.
So yes to both of those I guess? Yes.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in Aon and look forward to our next discussion.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our second quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First our performance against key metrics we communicated to shareholders; second I'll cover overall organic growth performance; and third is continued areas of investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the second quarter organic revenue growth was 4% overall with solid growth across all major businesses in both Risk and HR Solutions.
Operating margin decreased 100 basis points driven primarily by significant investments we are making in new growth opportunities and in key talent across our businesses.
Finally EPS was $1.02 as growth and effective capital management primarily offset incremental investment spend.
Overall our second quarter results reflect improved organic revenue growth across all of our major businesses as we make significant investments to further strengthen our client-serving capabilities.
Our results were also very consistent with the plants we laid out in Q1 for the full year 2012 recognizing that Risk Solutions was a bit better than anticipated and HR Solutions was a bit lighter than anticipated due to higher investment spend and the timing of certain deferred costs.
While Christa will provide additional financial commentary in a few minutes we continue to anticipate improved performance in the second half of the year are on track with our long-term targets and have continued to take significant steps to further position the firm for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 4% with growth across every major business.
As market-related conditions continue to stabilize we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segments for long-term growth and leverage to an improving economy with management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation of approximately $250 million across our Retail business with strong growth across many markets including China New Zealand Benelux France U.S.
Retail Latin America and Affinity just to name a few highlighting the strength of our global client-serving capability; investments in new products and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP and Aon Broking globally; and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 5 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic revenue growth improved to 4% compared to 2% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures were relatively stable and the impact from pricing was modestly positive reflecting a continued modest pace of improvement from a year ago.
We saw solid management of the renewal book portfolio in U.S.
Retail and Affinity strengthened by the continued rollout of Client Promise.
We also saw solid new business growth in Latin America.
Overall results reflect strong performance overcoming continued market weakness in certain areas such as the commercial construction sector.
In International organic revenue growth was 3% against pricing which was flat on average overall with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions.
We saw strong growth in New Zealand across many regions in Asia and the emerging markets including double-digit growth in many areas such as China Thailand Hong Kong and New Zealand.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe macroeconomic conditions remain fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across the U.K.
and Europe we saw strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio would deliver modest growth overall a solid performance given economic headwinds.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth improved to 7% compared to a decline of 2% in the prior year quarter a level of organic revenue performance not achieved since Q3 2006.
Results primarily reflect strong new business growth in global treaty placements a modest portion of which is nonrecurring revenue.
The impact to the market from pricing was favorable in the near term primarily due to property cat-exposed regions.
The underlying strength of the book continues to improve as net new business won was positive for the fifth consecutive quarter.
This level of performance and strength in new business generation continues to reflect Aon Benfield's value proposition for clients of strengthening their operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth improved to 4% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
We saw the rate of organic growth improve across both businesses despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in Continental Europe.
Performance also reflects growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as HR BPO investment consulting and pension risk management consulting.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risks continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at a local level managing and transferring risk against pension plans that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after working through the worst economic recession in the last 7 years clients are just beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth improved to 6% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
We saw a strong growth in HR BPO from both new client wins and in discretionary products and services such as dependent eligibility audits.
Results were partially offset by a decline in benefits administration as anticipated price compression and lower project-related revenue were greater than net client wins.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 3% compared to 1% in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect increased demand for surveys and services in our Compensation Consulting Group; strong growth across our business in Asia primarily for talent rewards; and strong demand for delegated pension risk management and investment consulting services.
Results were partially offset by a decline in discretionary demand for actuarial services in core Retirement Consulting in Europe.
Overall in HR Solutions we delivered solid organic revenue performance in the second quarter and are fully on track with previous expectations of delivering improved growth in both businesses in 2012.
Our priorities for 2012 remains focused on driving growth delivering improved profitability from our strategic investments and improving the growth profile in our core benefits administration and Retirement Consulting businesses.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions: We're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the Revenue Engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater client retention and rollover rates across our client base.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as GRIP which is the world's leading global repository of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have 1.5 million trades more than $76 billion of bound premium and a growing client list of 25 insurance carriers utilizing the platform's analytics and service capabilities.
We're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
Effective January 1 we aligned our global health and benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep Brokerage capabilities.
Finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia in specialty sectors and in our GRIP services business.
In summary as we've previously noted we have proved the concept of these major investments in 2011.
And as we move across 2012 and 2013 we're fully on track to drive greater scale and increase operating leverage.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position in health care exchanges.
Health care exchanges enable clients to begin the shift of their participants to a market-based defined contribution model for health care while addressing unsustainable health care cost increases and decreasing population health.
As early as the fourth quarter we plan to launch our first multi-carrier health exchange for active employees.
We're expanding our Outsourcing offerings in high-growth areas such as dependent eligibility audits.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology from large market to middle market.
And we're developing new delegated solutions in investment consulting and pension risk management that leverage our total capabilities across advisory and delivery services.
And finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a more global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia and emerging markets.
In summary we delivered improved organic revenue growth across all of our major businesses in both Risk and HR Solutions made significant strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth and took important steps to strengthen our global firm.
With that context I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thanks very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our second quarter results reflect solid organic revenue growth and significant steps to strengthen our global firm.
Our results overall are also in line with previous expectations provided in the first quarter.
As our progress have measured over the course of the year we continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance deliver savings from our formal restructuring programs generate strong free cash flow and effectively allocate capital as highlighted by the repurchase of 250 million of ordinary shares in the second quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results as highlighted on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items was $1.02 per share for the second quarter compared to $1.03 in the prior year quarter.
Solid organic growth and effective capital management in the quarter was offset primarily by strategic investments to deliver increased long-term growth.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization restructuring charges and $14 million of re-domicile costs primarily for legal and advisory fees with a completed re-domicile on April 2.
In addition foreign currency translation had an unfavorable impact of $0.03 per share.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a modest unfavorable translation impact to EPS in both the third and fourth quarter of 2012.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 4% operating margin increased 80 basis points to 21.9% and operating income increased 3% versus the prior year quarter.
Included in operating income was a $17 million impact related to both unfavorable foreign currency translation and a decline in investment income from lower short-term interest rates globally.
Solid organic revenue growth restructuring savings and lower lease termination costs contributed to operating margin and operating income growth in the quarter absorbing the significant investments we're making in our GRIP platform and in key talent across Asia and Latin America.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the Aon Benfield program savings in the second quarter are estimated at $36 million compared to $30 million in the prior year quarter.
The Aon Benfield program is expected to deliver cumulative expense savings of $146 million in 2012 compared to cumulative savings of $122 million in 2011.
Further associated with the transfer of the Health and Benefits business at January 1 an estimated $46 million of restructuring savings under the Aon Hewitt program will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $26 million of the $46 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program including an estimated $8 million of incremental savings in the second quarter.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedule on Page 13 of the press release.
For the second half of 2012 operating margin is -- sorry for the first half of 2012 operating margin is up 30 basis points and operating income is up 2%.
For the second half of the year operating income and margin are expected to be up.
This is driven by operating income and margin down for the third quarter driven by lower investment income continued investment spend and normal seasonal weakness while the fourth quarter is expected to be up significantly driven by less investment spend and normal seasonal strength.
Therefore Risk Solutions operating income and margin will be up for the first half up for the second half and up for the full year as we discussed in the first quarter.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 4%.
Operating margin decreased 440 basis points to 15.4%.
And operating income decreased 20% compared to the prior year quarter.
Included was a $2 million or 20 basis point unfavorable impact from FX.
Organic revenue growth of 4% and $15 million of incremental restructuring savings were more than offset by a $23 million or minus 250 basis point impact from significant investments in long-term growth initiatives an unfavorable revenue mix as benefits administration and Retirement Consulting declined modestly and a $9 million impact from deferred costs in Outsourcing related to the timing of large client implementations.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $11 million of charges in the quarter.
Cumulative savings related to the formal restructuring program in the second quarter are estimated at $57 million compared to $34 million in the prior year quarter of which approximately $8 million of the incremental savings were achieved in the Risk segment.
As we discussed in the first quarter we provided specific comments regarding the outlook for HR Solutions in 2012: number one we expect improved organic growth in both businesses for 2012; number two we would invest approximately $35 million in new growth opportunities primarily in our health care exchanges HR BPO investment consulting and pension risk management; number three approximately 75% of the restructuring savings would be realized in adjusted operating income; number four expected performance would improve in the second half of the year as investment spend decreases in the second half from the first half.
As we think about operating margin and income for the second half of the year we now expect the third quarter to be relatively flat year-over-year compared to our previous expectation of down.
And we expect the fourth quarter to be modestly up year-over-year compared to the previous expectations of flat in the fourth quarter.
Our improved outlook for the second half reflects continued growth low investment spend less deferred project costs and additional synergy savings as we strengthen our industry-leading HR Solutions business for long-term operational excellence in 2013 and beyond.
Turning to the next slide on our long-term operating margin targets.
We continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance on an annual basis.
While we've improved operating margins 500 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 26% for Risk Solutions reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 5 ways: Number one deliver $33 million of remaining restructuring savings and other operational improvements.
Number two continued rollout of the revenue engine internationally.
Number three Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
These 3 are fully within our control.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external market.
Number four increases in short-term interest rates.
Number five industry improvements driving higher insured values or insurance pricing.
Similarly for HR Solutions while we've improved operating margins nearly 1 200 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 22% reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 3 ways: number one deliver $76 million of remaining restructuring savings after the transfer of savings to health and benefits; number two growth in the core business and return on incremental investments; number three improvement in the HR BPO business.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on the next slide.
Unallocated expenses increased $1 million to $34 million excluding re-domicile costs.
Interest income decreased $2 million due to lower average interest rates and lower average cash balances.
Interest expense decreased $6 million due primarily to a decline in the average rate on total debt outstanding.
Other income of $12 million included a gain due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in nonfunctional currencies partially offset by losses on certain company-owned life insurance plans and long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million to $3 million per quarter of interest income $35 million of unallocated expense and $60 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations increased to 27.5% in the second quarter compared to 24.7% in the prior year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2011 was favorably impacted by the resolution of an income tax audit and certain deferred tax adjustments.
The company continues to anticipate an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of approximately 28% in 2012.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 335.6 million in the second quarter compared to 342.7 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to the company share repurchase program.
The company repurchased 5.3 million ordinary shares for approximately $250 million in the second quarter.
Actual shares outstanding on June 30 were 322.4 million and there are approximately 11 million dilutive equivalents.
As part of a change in corporate domicile Aon plc's Board of Directors authorized a $5 billion share repurchase program on April 19 2012 that replaced the previously authorized share repurchase program by Aon Corporation's Board of Directors in January 2010.
The company has approximately $4.75 billion of remaining authorization.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At June 30 cash and short-term investments were $802 million.
And total debt outstanding was $4.5 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital was 35.5% at June 30 compared to 35.7% at December 31.
Cash flow from operations increased 8% to $284 million compared to $264 million in the prior year quarter.
Despite a high organic growth rate low working capital requirements more than offset an increase in cash taxes and cash contributions to the major pension plans in the quarter.
Furthermore we continue to operate with elevated levels of invoicing and cash collections approximately $375 million related to a temporary delay in invoicing at Aon Hewitt which began in the second half of 2011 with the conversion of certain orders to cash systems.
We continue to make progress and expect this temporary increase to return to normalized levels by the end of 2012.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 2% to $226 million compared to $221 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase in free cash flow reflects an 8% increase in cash from operations partially offset by a $15 million increase in CapEx.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain client assets.
In 2011 we contributed approximately $477 million to our plans and would expect to contribute approximately $541 million in 2012 before any discretionary contributions.
Higher contributions primarily reflect a decline in discount rates.
We would expect contributions to decline annually beginning in 2013 despite a decline in discount rates year-to-date resulting in fully funded plans on a GAAP basis in 2016.
Regarding our restructuring plans.
Cash payments were $178 million in 2011.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $32 million to approximately $146 million in 2012 before declining further in 2013.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash decline over the next several years we expect our strong free cash flow to be a significant source of value creation to shareholders.
As an important step in unlocking that value for shareholders on April 2 the company completed its change in jurisdiction of incorporation from Delaware to the U.K.
We believe the transaction will help drive shareholder value through: number one providing greater global access to expected increases in future free cash flow number two enable us to access roughly $300 million of excess capital held internationally on our balance sheet; and number three increase future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term similar to what we've done over the last 5 years which was approximately 500 basis points.
In summary we are positioned for stronger growth in 2012 and we have significant leverage through an improving global economy.
While we're investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we are focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute to substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years: first is continuing growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term targets; second declining uses of cash for pensions and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate resulting from our re-domicile to the U.K.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and greater financial flexibility we have positioned the firm to effectively manage capital through the announced $5 billion share repurchase program and the recent increase in our annual dividend highlighting our firm belief in the underlying value of Aon.
With that I'd like to hand the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Dan Farrell from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just on the guidance on the Consulting margin.
I mean you've laid out the case for how it improves through this year and next but the guidance on the margin is clearly better than it was previously.
Can you give a little more detail on what changed in the outlook if it's revenue driven or if there's less investment than you previously thought you had and maybe put more in this quarter? And then I just have a follow-up.
Yes and that's absolutely right Dan.
The guidance for HR Solutions margin in the second half of 2012 is improved from our previous guidance.
So previously we said we were down in Q3 and now we think we'll be flat year-over-year in Q3.
And previously we said we'd be flat in Q4 now we think we'd be up modestly in Q4.
The 2 things really driving -- there are 3 things really driving that difference: one is less investment spend; two is less deferred costs; and three is improved restructuring savings.
So they're sort of the 3 things that are just leading to that improvement from previous guidance.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the level of ramp in revenue that we could see from these investments? Because obviously that's a key driver to getting these businesses ultimately to a normalized margin.
And then can you talk a little bit about how long you think it takes to get to that level where these are operating at a normal margin? Yes so one of the things we would point out is that as we look at organic revenue growth in the HR Solutions segment in the first half of the year it's the highest it's been in several years.
So we are starting to see growth from these investments already.
What I would observe as you look at the margin impact is as these investments sort of ramp you're getting revenue growth which is slightly lower margin until the investments truly scale.
And so as the revenue growth continues to come through and the investments scale you'll see that become higher-margin revenue growth if that makes sense.
And I would just say Dan to add to that is the one investment we have called out over the last couple of quarters is that on the health care exchanges which we're very positive about.
We feel like we've made a great progress in the context of that.
As that comes online it's going to take the next 2 to 3 years before you really start to see the full impact of what that can bring to us both on the retirement side and on the employee side.
We're hopeful by the way in the fourth quarter we're going to be able to launch the first employee exchange to go with what we do on the retirement side.
But it's going to take 2 to 3 years to really get those fully ramped up.
Research Division</strong> In this quarter how much of the $23 million is the health care exchanges? And correct me if I'm wrong but there's 0 revenue right now on those investments correct? It's limited.
So the majority of the investments is health care exchange.
But we are generating revenue on the retirement exchange.
It's modest but it is -- we do have clients.
It's up and running.
It's working very well and progressing just as we had hoped it would.
Our next question comes from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the Brokerage margins.
If we adjust for the lease termination costs in 2Q '11 it seems margins were flattish that we had 4% revenue growth.
Can you just talk to -- is there an implied 4% expense run rate in the business going forward? And I've got a couple of follow-ups.
Yes.
So Keith I think one of the things we really highlighted on Risk Solutions margin for the first half of the year and we expect that to sort of to continue slightly into Q3 is we really are investing significantly in the GRIP platform and in talent in Latin America and Asia.
And so what we're really seeing is that organic revenue growth is offsetting substantial investment spend.
And what we did say in Risk Solutions is that margin's going to be up significantly in Q4 and therefore up for the full year.
And so we're going to see a return on that significant investment in that GRIP platform and that talent within the year.
So we talked about this quite substantially in the last call Keith.
From the standpoint of -- the investment particularly on the GRIP rollout is significant but it's also an investment unlike investment in -- classic investments in talent which take a year or 2 to really come online.
We see how the GRIP investment is going to actually pay back and that's why we have talked about improved margin in the year even with the investment we're making.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then a question on HR a couple.
Just want to clarify something on the guidance I guess for 2012.
It seems like -- has anything changed for your view of 2012? It just seems like maybe the investment's been front loaded a little bit.
But overall do you view 2012 differently than you did what you told us last quarter? I think that's fair Keith.
I think that's exactly right.
And we're just seeing positive momentum it continues to develop and we're just trying to reflect that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no change there.
And then just if you can just talk a little bit to the unfavor -- you mentioned Christa in your comments unfavorable revenue mix.
Can you just help me understand that a little bit better.
Is that more seasonality issue or is it a -- maybe some of the more profitable businesses of Hewitt declining since the deal has been done.
Can you just talk to that a little bit? Yes so what we would say is there is some unfavorable revenue mix in both benefits administration and in core Retirement Consulting as those high-margin businesses declined slightly.
It's a very minor decline in revenue and we love the business and are continuing to invest in it long term.
And we're just seeing really growth in some of the areas in HR BPO in particular in the exchanges which is just ramping up very very well.
And that really is the mix issue.
We love this portfolio overall.
We see lots of promise in terms of sort of where's it's going to go in fact more I would say even then when we actually brought on -- when we brought the 2 firms together Keith.
That's why we made -- we've made the investments and we're just seeing ramped -- we're seeing a greater ramp-up in some of the areas that are improving in margin a la our HR BPO and the exchanges which are driving the revenue mix issues that Christa talked about.
Our next question comes from Adam Klauber from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Growth in Risk Solutions Americas obviously picked up nicely.
If you have to the rank order between price and new business and exposure how would you rank the drivers of that growth? Really I would say it's really across the board.
We actually saw -- we saw movement on the pricing side and it's -- it was modest.
It was not substantial.
But we saw new business growth that was good; I think $250 million overall in new business as Christa highlighted.
What we really also saw is continued management on the existing book and retention increases particularly around some of the rollout of Client Promise and as we rolled it out across Europe and the rest of the world we think we're going to see like increases when we actually get Client Promise and place it to really drive movement and retention.
And we saw stability in insured values.
So there wasn't a significant increase there but it wasn't a decrease or a headwind as we've seen before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the same topic on Europe it sounds like you're still holding in okay.
Are you worried that that still can get worse from where it is right now? Well listen I think our colleagues really across the world just done a terrific job sort of on the client leadership front and certainly across Europe.
Everyone is struggling everyone is sort of fighting these set of headwinds but I would reflect we grew.
We had positive organic growth.
It was modest but we had positive organic growth.
And we're continuing to put in place as we've done in the U.S.
some proven approaches that we think will really continue to help drive retention of that book.
But we've got some just very privileged positions and platforms across the European theater and that's actually served us quite well.
And so we're certainly concerned as we reflect on the impact of our clients.
But so far we've held our own.
We just want to highlight obviously there's a lot of potential headwind there and we're fighting through it.
But we grew in the quarter and we've grown in the first half and we're going to work hard on that for the second half.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one final question also on organic.
Both Reinsurance and Outsourcing blipped up.
How much of that for this quarter is sort of more transactional in each segment? And again is that potential -- again a little variation because of transactional business in each of those segments? Yes I would separate the 2.
They're very -- they're quite different.
When you think about our Reinsurance business it's 85% treaty is our overall business.
And that's really the -- fundamentally it was really new business generation that drove the bulk of that revenue growth.
Two to 3 points was probably kind of onetime sorts of things some price impact and some of the things that sort of drove that.
But even if you took the 2 to 3 points out it's actually a very substantial increase and really just a reflection of the great work that's being done on the Reinsurance side really reflecting tremendous progress new business wins that have really driven that business.
So just really another quarter of progression for our reinsurance colleagues.
Then on the Outsourcing side really is -- remember these are long-term contracts multiyear contracts and it just reflects wins on those contracts as those come online in the building of that business.
And as Christa described before the context of that these are margin business our businesses we're building margin on over time.
And so that's why we had the revenue mix that Christa described but just really -- they're just classic wins here.
There's also about 10% of that which is project revenue which we've talked about before we've been under pressure on and continue to face some headwinds on.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess one big picture question and then a small one.
Christa you talked about being -- or really positioning the company to be more leveraged to an economic recovery.
Would you have done anything differently over the past couple of years if you expected let's say 2 or 3 years of global economic weakness? Would I expect anything different? I mean I think the big areas of upside Meyer really are global interest rates.
So 100 basis point increase in global interest rates has a sort of $35 million to $40 million impact on top line and bottom line.
And I would observe on that dimension that interest rates did decline during Q2 and so we're seeing sort of weakness there.
As we look at other areas of the global economy as Greg said exposures globally are roughly stable as we think about the underlying drivers of that which are really corporate revenues employment levels and asset values that's essentially stable.
But look the other key driver is inflation and we would say that if interest rates underlying drivers of GDP or inflation were to improve then we have a substantial leverage to all 3 of those.
Yes and there's -- Meyer one of the -- I think you asked if we had done anything differently as well if we'd anticipated it.
And for us remember we build our game plan not anticipating substantial rate movement.
We built our game plan not anticipating economic return.
And we built our game plan to grow our business and to drive cash flow which is really sort of the engine which sort of -- which really what we believe is just continuing to build and well over time.
And so for us that game plan has been put together not anticipating a change in some of the headwinds.
And so in many respects the plan we've had in place will be the game plan we're going to go forward with.
If we happen to get some benefits as Christa described that would be fantastic.
But it doesn't change anything structurally that we put in place.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Small question in HR Solutions.
There's a $9 million increase in deferred costs.
I was hoping you could explain what that is and how that plays out over the next few quarters? Yes so it's really -- it's related to the timing of implementations on large outsourcing contracts and it has been a headwind in Q1 and Q2.
We would expect that to reverse slightly in Q3 and Q4 hence the improved guidance year-over-year in Q3 and Q4.
It's literally just as we implement contracts and you have them go live then you'd defer less of this expense.
Our next question comes from Michael Annizzi (sic) [Nannizzi] from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So my question I guess is on Europe.
I mean what are you assuming as a baseline for Europe in your revenue and margin guidance in just both segments but in particular in the HR Solutions segment and just one follow-up.
Well as a baseline we're assuming that's going to -- at this point it's going to be flat overall in terms of sort of what's happened in the overall economy.
It's obviously struggling and fragile.
We're fighting against it.
We've grown the business and we anticipate we're going to continue to do that but it's going to be marginally positive going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your baseline kind of the revenue guidance and margin guidance in HR Solutions is that you'll continue to grow not just outside of Europe outside of the U.S.
but also in Europe as well? Yes that's what we've talked about which is literally -- as we've said before we got a set of game plans to add plans and add business to grow the business.
We anticipate we're going to continue to do that.
But we've highlighted that it's a struggle and it's a struggle for our clients first and foremost and a headwind for us.
But we've been able to actually succeed against that and we anticipate doing it.
But it's not going to be substantial at this point until things change.
And the only other point I'd make is as you look at the seasonality of our business Q1 is our strongest European quarter.
And so while the second half of the year is certainly important it's really Q1 next year that we'll be sort of focused on.
Research Division</strong> Got it got you great.
And then one question on kind of capital generation capital deployment.
So you've deployed $250 million through the buyback this quarter.
I mean if you were -- is your expectation to deploy kind of what you're generating after the dividend or should we think about deployment including more than that given the additional cash that you have for the re-domicile or -- how should we think about where you plan to deploy from here? Yes so the way we think about it it's really as we generate free cash flow we look at return on capital on a cash-on-cash basis to allocate any form of free cash flow.
And we've said that we had approximately $100 million in Q1 $250 million in Q2 and we had really previously given guidance of $150 million per quarter with the potential of $300 million of additional purchases using excess capital from the balance sheet.
Beyond that it's not really in our best interest to provide specific guidance.
And any uses of cash flow or excess capacity including the $300 million of cash held internationally will be evaluated and allocated based on the highest return on capital.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Europe.
Could you just give us the percentage of total revs it is for each of the divisions? And then I guess you'd mentioned Q1 is the biggest for the HR business.
So could you talk us through how big it is from a seasonality perspective? And really what I'm trying to get at as others are as well is sensitivity if things come in worse to the overall projections that you guys hope to achieve in the quarters and months and years ahead? Yes so as we think about the business overall about 15% of our overall revenue was Continental Europe.
Risk is a little bit more; HR is a little bit less.
As you think about patterning throughout the year Q1's the biggest quarter.
I mean I do sort of -- look we're very sensitive to Europe too.
I would note and reinforce as Greg described we've grown in Europe in the first half of the year.
We grew in Q2.
We're very conservative in our future forecast but it's not really the panic that everyone's currently worried about.
We're certainly tracking it extremely carefully and we're managing what we observe is a fragile economy.
But as Greg said we have industry-leading positions in most large European countries and we're very proud of the performance that we're delivering.
And remember it's difficult to grow on these context but clients need risk understanding.
They need risk leadership.
That absolutely can't go away.
And in some respects by the way some of the issues in Europe actually magnify those issues and potentially create opportunities.
And on the HR Solutions side same token everyone's got employees everybody's got to work and support those employees and in times of need sometimes those issues become even more acute.
So we're by no means trying to say this is a positive.
This a big headwind and a serious headwind for our clients.
But we've got a lot of tools and a lot of approaches that we think serve us well in this context and we're going to keep applying those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up on that.
If we sort of go back to the financial crisis '08 was a reasonable organic -- the world -- the financial markets came unglued in '08 but it wasn't really until '09 that you felt that in your organics in the HR business.
How is this any different? Why is next year going to be a good year for Europe for HR Solutions given what we know today? Well again we've been careful to say -- we haven't said it's going to be a good year.
We have essentially said we're going to continue to improve and build on our business.
But I think you've highlighted something pretty profound.
If you go back and look at 2008 as an example and look at our business overall as an example and sort of our growth rates even in the context of a very challenging 2008 and what's happened over time the worst we did was negative 1% sort of across the board if you think about sort of our -- the robustness of our business in 2009.
So against that backdrop we held [ph] serve on growth.
Our aspirations is to grow over time and we will do that.
But just for background that was the -- as you described sort of Greg the worst of the worst.
And from our standpoint we think this is different in some ways and offer some opportunities that are a bit unique.
I think I don't [ph] overstate it.
This is going to be a challenge continues to be a challenge.
But as Christa described we don't see this -- this is something we've again seen before and we're going to deal with and support our clients on it.
We think AON will benefit from that.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And one last one just M&amp;A.
Just want to take your temperature on how you're feeling on that front.
You were very explicit in cash plans but I just wanted to ask what you're thinking now.
Yes if you just -- if you take Christa's foundation on the cash side well I think the clearest execution plan you can imagine sort of M&amp;As from what Christa described from our standpoint we love the structure we've got.
We've got -- the portfolio we have on HR Solutions and Risk Solutions that we like a lot.
We'll always add to that from a standpoint of smaller tuck-in acquisitions and have historically spent $200 million to $300 million a year sort of in that context on things that truly add content and capability or geographic reach.
That really is the extent of our M&amp;A aspirations at this point.
We love the platform we've got.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here for you.
The first one on the Outsourcing business I wonder if you could talk about -- is the growth you're seeing there from just underlying employee growth or is it some of the special projects that you had stopped seeing back in 2011 that all of a sudden starting to come through? Really Brian this is really new client wins and as we bring on those new client wins particularly around HR BPO and on some of the comp consulting side it really is -- that's really where you're seeing a reflection of.
Just fundamental strength in the core part of the business.
And we have not seen the discretionary spend pick up.
So that 10% of the project spend that's been a pressure -- we continue to see as a pressure where you're really seeing all this rollout of new clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then next question on the health exchanges.
Do you have any new clients and how many clients have you kind of signed on so far? And kind of what are the enrollments looking like? Well again remember there are 2 types of exchanges here.
One is on the retirement side and we have an active exchange up and running multiple clients in the context of that and many lies in the context sort of what we're doing in that.
We're going to go through another roller period coming up so that's an active exchange which we're investing behind which we're building on.
And then we're very hopeful to actually launch what would be the first active employee exchange coming up in the fourth quarter of this year.
And in many respects we've got clients who are excited about that markets who are excited about that and look forward to doing that which means we would have 2 exchanges in place a retirement exchange and an employee -- active employee exchange both of which would be as Christa described before growth engines for us and opportunities to really build our business.
So we're excited about both of them.
Research Division</strong> And then when should we potentially see that in the revenue numbers? Well you're going to start to see -- you'll begin to see it meaningfully in the revenue numbers as I said before really into '13 but really in the '13 and '14.
You'll start to see it really in the profit numbers a bit after that I'd said 2 to 3 years thus far.
But that's kind of the overall profile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just overall on the pricing environment for property/casualty insurance your thoughts there and what impact is that having on your revenue growth organic revenue growth? Well sort of back overall on pricing again.
On the retail side we draw [ph] directly and specifically from the Global Risk Insight Platform.
As we said before we see continued improvement just for numbers if it's helpful.
Q2 -- go back to last year Q2 '11 we were minus 3%.
Q3 we were minus 2%.
Q4 we were roughly flat.
And in the first quarter we're kind of plus 1%.
That's roughly where we are now give or take.
So on the Retail side -- so it's positive.
It's trended positive.
You can start -- it seems like that's beginning to flatten out a bit in terms of where we are.
And really you're going to have to split that between new and renewal.
We're looking at both overall here as that's where we capture [ph] GRIP.
And then on the Reinsurance side we also saw a positive -- marginal positive movement sort of in that and that's reflected in the numbers as I've said before kind of a couple of points as it related to our book.
But if you look at the global reinsurance capital it's a story you know well Brian.
We ended 2011 about $455 billion in capital which was down 3% from 2010 from $470 billion.
By the way that absorbed over $100 billion worth of insured losses.
But if you look at the first quarter of 2012 we're back up to $470 billion.
So in terms of some overall pressure there are still kind of back to almost unprecedented levels of capital in the overall business at this point in time.
So for us it's been positive.
It's had an impact.
But when you think about kind of where we are you start to see that flatten out a little bit.
So marginally positive to flattening out.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to touch base on a couple of items: first on the Reinsurance organic revenue growth.
Do you expect that trend of improving organic revenue growth to continue in 3Q? Yes.
When we said Jay overall -- first of all we're just pleased with the progress overall the fundamentals of the business around sort of wins new wins net new wins and that's now been positive for 5 consecutive quarters just as we expected it would be once sort of the overall set of adjustments are made when we brought the 2 firms together.
The 7% I said before kind of had 200 to 300 basis points of pricing which is leveling out some kind of onetime discretionary spends which we think will probably go away.
But so you back that out you're kind of still at the 4% to 5% range and we see that kind of progress over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the -- Christa can you update us on the progress in improving the effective tax rate with the corporate move? So Jay we did say that the tax rate for the full year is going to remain 28%.
We did observe that the tax rate in the quarter 27.5% and so we continue to see the tax rate being 28%.
I would observe that's down 100 basis points from the 29% we had at the beginning of the year.
And as we think about the move to the U.K.
we have said that we expect a substantial reduction of global effective tax rate approximately 500 basis points over the long term.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then on the Risk Solutions where you just talked about the improving margins I just wanted to confirm that that also means improving adjusted operating profit? Yes that's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So can you help us -- so I guess that would mean improving revenue year-over-year as well? We definitely think organic revenue growth is going to be positive.
Our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So a couple -- first numbers questions.
Just the $23 million of incremental investment spend you highlighted in the Consulting segment can you break that up between comp and benefits and other expenses? No we can't.
But what we can say is that the majority of it is related to health care exchanges.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any just qualitative comment on how to allocate it? Yes as we think about what it is it is people and it's technology.
And the technology spend is both an ongoing expense and it's capital expenditure.
So as you think about scaling up a health care exchange a lot of it's about hiring people to process the placement and some of them are very experienced people like brokers.
Some of them are administrative people to place the business and then as a substantial investment in the technology platform to scale the business to the large clients that we're going to be scaling over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> But as we think about that ongoing administrative or people expenses aren't likely to be called out as investments so is it fair to think about that as either CapEx or any consulting on the -- any internal consultants or what-have-you on the implementation side? That is right.
So we would say from 2013 onwards we will absorb that in the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Then just curious one of the things you talked about when you originally acquired Hewitt was some of the cross-selling opportunities between Risk Solutions and HR Solutions.
And it feels like now that the office managers regional managers kind of have their marching orders and that's a priority.
Any early returns on that front? Let's start with one of the things that we saw enough promise and we actually -- we talked about some of the alignment around health and benefits.
We've actually moved the entire Health and Benefits business so $721 million for the revenue or thereabouts from Aon Hewitt over to Aon Risk Solutions sort of in the context of that and saw a very strong growth sort of in the quarter as a result of that.
So if one wanted kind of a very explicit underpinning sort of talk's cheap or what action are you taking there is very specific action that we took based on early returns that we saw that we think are really beginning to have impact on the business but will have much much more impact over time as we sort of take the capability we've got sort of in the context of where we are and deliver some of the Hewitt capability into the Risk client base and also in the middle market so we're seeing that quite substantially and that's one example.
What I'd also say on the health care exchanges one of the investments if you think about it we're involved in the design of those but also there's this [indiscernible] Brokerage involved in that and administration.
So very directly we're kind of connecting in terms of overall capabilities to serve our clients.
So we would say Matthew there's a lot of connection and it is at least are more than we anticipated coming into the overall merger and early returns are very good in terms of sort what we're doing but they're early.
We've got a long way to go and we're continuing to build but feel good about the progress.
Research Division</strong> How from an external perspective over the next couple of years you think we should -- how should we think about where we're going to see those benefits show up? I think you highlighted the easiest ones to get your arm around on the business that was transferred in the Brokerage but how should we monitor that? Well think you're going to look at -- you're going to see growth across the board.
In many respects you're going to hopefully see growth sort of in the Aon Hewitt side x Health and Benefits.
Literally what we're doing -- you just think about the capability we've got on the Outsourcing side the delivery capability we've got.
If you imagine that in the middle market I mean think about it Hewitt before was much more a U.S.- and U.K.-focused company had certainly operations around the world.
But Aon exceptionally strong around the world incredibly strong little markets so great capability in the context of that.
And it also as you sort of move up market the Hewitt capability sort of in the large corporate arena was just extraordinary.
So bringing risk capability to there we think could be very positive.
The exchanges we've talked about before.
So from our standpoint we actually see connectivity across the business.
We think you're going to see results sort of in multiple places.
Research Division</strong> And that's something that the mid-market the large global yang yang yang depending on the segment we're talking about that's something you all -- we can expect you to call out? Yes I think -- call out -- I don't know if we're going to sort of explicitly say this exactly was driven by client enrollment.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just meant qualitatively in the press release that kind of thing.
Yes sure.
And our last question comes from Alex Lopez from Portales Partners.
LLC</strong> Greg I just want to -- I actually have a couple of follow-up questions on pricing and then I have a quick question on capital management.
Greg I just want to confirm did you mention that about 2 to 3 points of the 7% Aon Benfield organic growth that [ph] contributed to pricing is that right? Yes.
What I said there are couple of things there.
One was pricing which was marginally positive.
And then there are a couple of kind of one-off sort of additions just really adjustments we made on behalf of clients that have impacted the quarter.
So I really said there was 2 to 3 points overall that included pricing as part of it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So there's a one-off.
That's the nonrecurring or favorable pricing impact right? Correct.
LLC</strong> Also can you provide some color on the pricing environment in Aon Hewitt.
We have some idea of the demand but the pricing.
I was wondering if you can talk about that? So the pricing environment we would say particularly on the Outsourcing side remains very competitive.
And it is absolutely a headwind we faced it's negative.
It has remained at a consistent negative level since we merged with Hewitt in 2010.
And we would say it's exactly in line with our expectations that we modeled when we acquired the company.
So it remains very consistent.
I think from a competitive standpoint all of our businesses are competitive.
All of them are -- sort of have prices sort of as one aspect of it.
We continue to compete on value which is helping our clients understand what we can do to help improve their operating performance or reduce their volatility or strengthen the balance sheets or really just help them improve performance.
And that's actually served us well on the Reinsurance side on the Retail side and in Aon Hewitt.
LLC</strong> So it's competitive in Outsourcing and somewhat negative on the Consulting practices within Aon Hewitt is that positive competitive or...
Yes.
I still think it's like the business has been over time there's lots of competition lots of competitors out there sort of talking to clients.
What we believe we've got is Alex a very unique way to sort of talk about the value we can bring to the market and whether it's on the advice side on the consulting side or it's on the delivery side.
And what we do on the outsourcing side we think we've got a very unique platform in which we can actually offer our client not only the diagnosis and sort of help understand what to do but also and how to do it and actually do it for them on the outsourcing side.
So we think the platform called Aon Hewitt is actually quite unique in the context of the HR Solutions world just like we believe the risk solutions platform we have with Aon Risk Solutions and Aon Benfield is very unique.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Christa quick question on capital management.
Can you remind us how much senior debt is maturing in Q4? I think you had a little bit.
And any thoughts on managing that or what were you going to do with it? Yes.
So we have in December 2012 about $225 million of debt that comes up for renewal.
You should expect us to renew that as we normally do it.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want to say thanks to everybody for joining the call this quarter.
We appreciate it and look forward to discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon's plc Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that the information to note that some the comments in today's call may constitute certain looking statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or for those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences as described in the press release covering our third quarter results as well as being posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Catherine and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Third Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
And we note there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders second is overall organic growth performance and third is continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic.
Our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: Grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the third quarter organic revenue growth was 4% overall driven by improved rate of organic growth in both Risk and HR Solutions.
Operating margin increased 30 basis points and savings related to our restructuring programs and operational discipline absorbed continued investments we are making in new growth opportunities and in key talents across our businesses.
Finally EPS increased 8% to $0.95 reflecting solid operating performance and effective capital management.
Overall the focus remains on annual performance and achieving these metrics over the course of the year.
However I would note that our third quarter reflects improvement in each of our 3 metrics for the first time since the beginning of 2009 that we delivered this result in a single quarter.
Christa will provide further and additional financial commentary in a few minutes reinforcing that we're on track with our long-term targets and has continued to take significant steps to further position the firm for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% compared to 2% in the prior-year quarter with growth across every major business.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation of more than $230 million across our Retail business with double-digit new business growth in many markets globally across Asia and Pacific regions.
Investments in new product and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP and Aon Broking globally.
And in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 6 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 2% similar to the prior-year quarter.
The exposures are relatively stable and the impact on pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting the steady pace of improvement over the last 12 months.
We saw strong growth in the renewal book portfolio in Latin America and in our Affinity business.
U.S.
Retail was stable as growth in Health and Benefits and property/casualty markets were offset by continued weakness in the commercial construction market.
In international organic revenue growth was 3% also similar to the prior-year quarter.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions.
We saw a strong growth in emerging markets New Zealand and in many regions across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as India and Taiwan.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe macroeconomic conditions remained fragile across many core markets.
However our leadership positions across this region where we saw strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio delivered modest growth.
Overall solid performance given the economic headwinds.
In reinsurance organic revenue growth improved to 7% compared to a decline of 1% in the prior-year quarter.
The results reflect solid growth across each business.
In treaty as mentioned before net new business won was positive for the sixth quarter in a row including unfavorable impact from market pricing in the near-term primarily due to losses incurred in the prior year from property cat-exposed regions.
Additionally we saw solid growth from facultative placements and capital markets transactions and advisory services which tend be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's compelling value proposition for clients of strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
I would note that our fourth quarter of 2011 in reinsurance benefited from significant level of capital markets transactions that we do not expect to repeat in Q4 this year as well as caution that excess capital continues to build in the industry and cedents continue to retain more risk.
Absent any events in the industry macro factors may return as a headwind that we're going to have to overcome as we move into 2013.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic growth improved to 4% compared to a decline of 1% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw the rate of organic growth improve across both consulting and outsourcing despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in Continental Europe.
Performance also reflects growth rates in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as investment consulting pension risk management consulting and HR BPO.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risk continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations that are delivered at a local level.
In addition managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 7 years clients are just beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for potential renewed growth long-term.
Turning to the individual businesses.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 5% compared to a decline of 1% in the prior-year quarter.
The results reflect strong demand for delegated pension risk management and investment consulting services strong growth in talent rewards and solid growth across our businesses in Asia.
The results are partially offset by a decline in discretionary spend for material [ph] services in core retirement consulting internationally.
In outsourcing organic revenue growth improved to 4% compared to a decline of 2% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw strong growth in HR BPO from both new client wins and in discretionary products and services such as dependent eligibility audits.
We also saw a modest growth in Benefits Administration driven by net client wins and an increase in project-related revenue partially offset by anticipated price compression.
Overall in HR Solutions we delivered solid organic revenue performance in the third quarter and continue to execute on strategic investments that will drive additional long-term growth across our industry-leading platform.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic.
Further areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position in health care exchanges both in the retiree and active markets.
Health care exchanges enable clients to begin the shift of their participants to a more market-based defined contribution model for health care while addressing unsustainable health care cost increases and decreasing population health.
While already a leader in the retiree market we recently announced the launch of the industry's first and only fully-insured multicarrier corporate health care exchange with more than 100 000 participants.
Really outstanding progress in this area as we look to scale it in 2013 and 2014.
We're expanding our outsourcing offerings in high-growth areas such as dependent eligibility audits.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology from large market to middle market.
And we're developing new delegated solutions in investment consulting and pension risk management that leverage our total capabilities across advisory and delivery services.
A great example in this area was our recent advisory work for a large client around pension settlement and derisking activities which led to one of the largest insured annuity settlement transactions in U.S.
history.
Finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support our global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia and emerging markets.
In Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the revenue engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have more than 1.5 million trades more than $76 billion of bound premium and a growing client list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and servicing capabilities.
In addition we're driving around broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
Effective January 1 we aligned our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep Brokerage capabilities.
Finally we're spending our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia in specialty sectors and in our GRIP services business.
Overall we've proved the concept of these major investments and begun to scale these opportunities in 2012.
And as we complete 2012 and move into 2013 we are on plan to deliver greater scale and increased operating leverage.
In summary we delivered improved organic revenue growth across both Risk and HR Solutions made significant strategic investments that will deliver greater long-term growth and took important steps to strengthen our global firm highlighted by the re-domicile from Chicago to London completed earlier this year.
With key numbers of the management team now fully reallocated to London and as a U.K.
headed multinational group we're seeing increased interaction with international and emerging market clients strengthening our relationship with the London markets increasing our international brand awareness and driving financial benefits related to the transaction.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our performance reflects solid organic revenue growth and significant steps to strengthen our global firm.
From a financial perspective our third quarter results overall exceeded our previous expectations.
We continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve our operating performance deliver savings from our formal restructuring programs and generate strong free cash flow growth.
We are effectively allocating capital as highlighted by the repurchase of 275 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
I would note this is more share repurchase than we've done in any quarter in the past year and is reflection in our belief in the strength of the firm.
Now let me turn to the financial results as highlighted on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 8% to $0.95 per share for the third quarter compared to $0.88 in the prior-year quarter.
Results reflect solid organic growth restructuring savings a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management in the quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization restructuring charges and $4 million of re-domicile costs primarily for legal and advisory fees with the completed re-domicile on April 2.
Foreign currency translation did not have a material impact on earnings per share in the quarter.
If currency would have remained stable at today's rates we would expect a very modest unfavorable translation impact to EPS in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% operating margin decreased 20 basis points to 20% and operating income decreased 1% versus the prior-year quarter.
Included in operating income was a $10 million impact related to both unfavorable foreign currency translation and a decline in investment income from lower short-term interest rates globally.
Organic revenue growth and restructuring savings primarily absorbed the significant investments we are making in our GRIP platform and in key talent across Asia and Latin America.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
With respect to the Aon Benfield program savings in the third quarter are estimated at $36 million compared to $30 million in the prior-year quarter.
The Aon Benfield program is expected to deliver cumulative expense savings of $146 million in 2012 compared to the cumulative savings of $122 million in 2011.
Further associated with the transfer of the Health and Benefits business at January 1 2012 an estimated $46 million of restructuring savings under the Aon Hewitt program will be achieved in Risks Solutions.
Approximately $33 million of the $46 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program including an estimated $7 million of incremental savings in the third quarter.
A breakout of restructuring charges is incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 13 of the press release.
For the first 9 months of 2012 Risk Solutions margin is up 10 basis points and Risk Solutions operating income is up 2% absorbing significant investments in the business lower investment income and unfavorable foreign currency translation.
We continue to expect strong operating performance in the fourth quarter driven by seasonal strength less investment spend and increased return on investments as we begin to scale long-term initiatives resulting in margin expansion for the full year and placing up on track to deliver our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 4%.
Operating margin increased 150 basis points to 17.5% and operating income increased 11% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Included was a $5 million favorable impact from FX.
Organic revenue growth of 4% $20 million of incremental restructuring savings and an increase in cost that were deferred related to the timing of large client implementations more than offset our significant investments in long-term growth initiatives and an unfavorable revenue mix shift.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $16 million of charges in the quarter.
Cumulative savings related to the formal restructuring program in the third quarter are estimated at $64 million compared to $37 million in the prior-year quarter of which approximately $7 million of the incremental savings were achieved in the Risk segment.
At the beginning of the year we provided specific comments regarding the outlook for HR Solutions in 2012: Number one we expect improved organic growth in both businesses in 2012; number two we would invest approximately $35 million in new growth opportunities primarily our health care exchanges HR BPO investment consulting and pension risk management; number three approximately 75% of the restructuring savings would be realized in adjusted operating income; number four expected performance would improve in the second half of the year primarily as investment spend decreases in the second half from the first half.
Overall our results reflect a solid performance in the third quarter and we are on track with the plans that we had laid out at the beginning of the year.
We are always cautious not to overplay the results of one quarter.
With the fourth quarter we expect continued organic growth to deliver on restructuring savings and make further progress against key investments resulting in operating income and margin up modestly similar to our previous guidance placing us on track for improved performance in 2013.
Turning to the next slide on our long-term operating margin targets.
We continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance on an annual basis.
While we've improved operating margins 500 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 26% for Risk Solutions reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 5 ways: Number one deliver $20 million of remaining restructuring savings and deliver other operational improvements; number two continued rollout of the revenue engine internationally; number three Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
These 3 are fully within our control.
In addition there were 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external markets; number four increases in short-term interest rates; and number five industry improvements driving higher insured values or insurance pricing.
Similarly for HR Solutions while we've improved operating margins nearly 1 200 basis points over the last 6 years our long-term operating margin target of 22% reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 3 ways: number one deliver $56 million of remaining restructuring savings after the transfer of savings for Health and Benefits; number two growth in the core business and return on incremental investments including health care exchanges; number three improvements in HR BPO.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on the next slide.
Unallocated expenses were $46 million including nonrecurring costs for certain employee benefit plans and increased operating expenses related to the re-domicile.
Interest income decreased $3 million due to lower average interest rates and average cash balances.
Interest expense decreased $3 million due primarily to a decline in the average rate on total debt outstanding.
Other expense had an unfavorable impact of $7 million including a $16 million loss on the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in nonfunctional currencies partially offset by gains on certain company-owned life insurance plans and other long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $40 million of unallocated expense and $60 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations decreased to 23.2% in the third quarter compared to 28.9% in the prior-year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2012 was favorably impacted by certain discrete tax adjustments.
We currently anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 26% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and going forward excluding any discrete tax adjustments.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 331 million in the third quarter compared to 336.9 million in the prior-year quarter due primarily to our share repurchase program.
The company repurchased 5.4 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $275 million in the third quarter and has approximately 4.5 billion of remaining authorization actual shares outstanding on September 30 were 318.7 million and there are approximately 10.4 million dilutive equivalents.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At September 30 cash and short-term investments were $1 billion and total debt outstanding was $4.4 billion.
Overall debt to capital was 34.6% at September 30 compared to 35.7% at December 31.
Cash flow from operations increased 63% to $598 million compared to $368 million in the prior-year quarter.
Despite a higher organic growth rate low working capital requirements more than offset an increase in cash taxes and cash contributions to the major pension plans in the quarter.
Furthermore we continue to operate with elevated levels of invoicing and cash collections approximately $375 million related to a delay in invoicing in Aon Hewitt which began in the second half of 2011 with the conversion of certain order to cash systems.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 66% to $526 million compared to $316 million in the prior-year quarter.
The increase in free cash flow reflects a 63% increase in cash flow from operations partially offset by a $20 million increase in CapEx.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continued to de-risk certain plan assets.
In 2011 we contributed approximately $477 million to our plans.
In prior quarters we had noted that 2012 contributions were expected to be $541 million before any discretionary contributions primarily reflecting a decline in discount rates from 2011.
On September 30 we completed a merger of 5 of the 7 legacy Aon and Hewitt U.K.
pension schemes into a single plan.
In addition to decreased management time and improved governance additional benefits are expected to be derived through improved operating efficiencies reduced adviser and asset management costs and a high level of control over investments.
In conjunction with this transaction we made a discretionary contribution of approximately $80 million.
As a result we now expect pension contributions to be $641 million in 2012 and would expect contributions to decline annually beginning in 2013 despite a decline in discount rates year-to-date resulting in fully funded plans on a GAAP basis in 2016.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $178 million in 2011.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $29 million to approximately $149 million in 2012 before declining further in 2013.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash decline over the next several years we expect our strong free cash flow to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
As an important step in unlocking that value for shareholders on April 2 the company completed its change in jurisdiction of incorporation from Delaware to the U.K  We believe the transaction will help drive shareholder value through: Number one providing greater global access to expected increases in future free cash flow; number two enable us to access roughly $300 million of excess capital held internationally on our balance sheet; number three increase future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term more than we've done over the last 5 years which is approximately 500 basis points.
In summary we are on track for stronger growth in 2012 and we have significant leverage through an improving global economy.
While we're investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we are focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute to substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years: First is continued growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term targets; second declining uses of cash to pension and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate resulting from our re-domicile to the U.K.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and greater financial flexibility we've positioned the firm to significant shareholder value creation.
With that I'd like to call -- turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us how much to date have you invested in the health care exchanges? And how much I guess total do you expect invest? And could you talk about -- I realize it's a very long-term process but what's the potential of ramp-up in clients in the different exchanges? Well as of -- on the health care exchange front as we've made a number of investments that we talked about and very excited about the overall platform.
To date we targeted as we said before about $75 million in the investment about $40 million which was last year and $35 million in this year in 2012.
And pleased to say we were able to launch our first-ever as I described before corporate exchange which is coming live in the fourth quarter.
It's the first time this ever occurred 100 000 lives.
Very excited about that.
And as you know we've got a very very strong retiree exchange as well and our Navigators exchange.
Just for context if you think about it there are 48 million eligible retirees out there.
And an additional context on the corporate side 122 million active employees today.
And all of those are in an environment in which sort of increasing health care costs are clearer everywhere employers are looking for ways to actually sort through that complexity.
Not only are costs going up but health is actually deteriorating.
So we see a substantial amount of opportunity in this is over the long term.
And that's why we made the investments and are very excited about these platforms and what they can mean for us.
As we said at the first quarter we see the real impact happening more in '14 '15 et cetera.
We're going to see impact in '13 but it's really going to happen in '14 and '15 so these are investments for the long term.
But I would say much like the overall story for Aon Hewitt we feel very good about these these are stable on track and actually progressing just as we thought they would and are excited about the overall investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up.
HR margins were clearly good.
Were there any sort of onetime or favorable items that helped the margins this quarter? What I would say is it was a little better than our expectations.
A lot of things moved in the right direction and we do believe that we're on track with previous guidance with operating income up modestly in Q4 and continued progress in 2013.
The next question is coming from Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess sticking with HR and the margins you did refer to some I guess deferred expenses which sounded like it helped the earnings.
Can you explain what that is? And if they're deferred does that mean higher expenses in later periods? Right.
Great question Jay.
So the third costs are really related to the timing of large client implementations and so when clients go live we defer those costs from the P&amp;L on to the balance sheet.
So that's essentially the way mechanics work.
And it's really just related to the timing of when clients go live.
And so that was a significant impact on the quarter and continues to be a part of the way we operate the economics of the business.
But I think about Jay [ph] overall about just how margin's going to progress Jay as we described before.
We intend to make progress year to year.
Third quarter is an indication that we step forward as we reflect on 2012.
When we finish Q4 we believe we'll have made a modest progress as Christa described.
And we believe we're well-positioned to make modest progress in '13 and continue on the march for the 22% target.
Just one other note Jay.
We are deferring revenue that's matching those deferred expenses so we're matching revenue and expense.
So you're not going to get some incremental expense going forward without the incremental revenue.
Research Division</strong> Got it now that make sense.
And then separately if you can give us an update on GRIP.
I don't know if you can talk about how many insurance companies you've got signed up to the platform and what your goals are for that product? Well as we've described before and if you think about GRIP in the context of what we're trying to accomplish on the overall Risk Solutions platform what we said before when you think about how we grow the business we can increase the number of clients increase the wallet share we've got with them or increase the yield per dollar of premium placed.
And that's exactly squarely where the GRIP world fits increasing yield per dollar premium placed.
And it really is -- it's -- for us it's about how we put the platform in place and how we build it over time.
And as you described Jay we made very good progress with it.
We've got as I described before almost $80 billion of premium sort of in the GRIP system.
We've talked before about multiple carriers who've signed on to this substantially proven the concept as we described before.
And what we see in '12 is we're really rolling that out.
And it's really having substantial impact not only with our carriers but with our clients this having a substantial impact in helping us really match capital with client need in a very substantial way and it's increased our level of service.
So we're very positive on the GRIP platform and it really is the reason.
As we said in Q1 we've seen so much progress with it we proved the concept and now we're scaling up the concept as we roll out the platform.
Research Division</strong> But no disclosure on how many insurance companies are on the platform at this point? Yes it's really not about the number.
It's really about what we're trying to do and how we're actually increasing the yield per dollar of premium placed.
So you're going to see the impact of GRIP show up in that yield show up in margin over time.
And it's much more -- it's much deeper than just literally market by market.
We're actually seeing benefits beyond just signing off insurance markets.
The next question is coming from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
First Christa is it possible to give us what the capital markets benefit was for the reinsurance organic revenue growth rate this quarter? Hang on.
Just looking for that.
I think it was like 100 basis points roughly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Excellent.
And then Christa another quick question here.
On the tax rate guidance the 26% for the remainder of the year is that -- when I think about your 500 basis points that you're going to get over -- or more than 500 basis points from the redomestication is that kind of the baseline I should be thinking about? So we did start -- before the transaction our effective tax rate was 29%.
And so you can see we're making progress on the benefits of the move to the U.K.
already with the tax rate decline from 29% to 26% this quarter.
And so and we did say this quarter the tax rate benefits from the transaction would be more than 500 basis points.
So what I would say in regards to that is we had an overall plan in place and as we continue to execute on that plan and we get more certainty on it we'll continue to update you.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then -- and just lastly I just want to follow-up on Jay's question.
Is there any way that you could actually qualify where the deferral in revenues and expenses were in the quarter with respect to the HR Solutions business? Just so we can kind of look at the different ratios and how they're really kind of working? Yes we did say it was significant.
We haven't revealed that number.
And look we would say it's related to the timing of large client implementations in both our BPO and benefits administration station business.
And it will be lumpy by quarter as client implementations phase in.
The next question is coming from Ray Iardella of Macquarie.
Just I guess 2 questions for me.
First maybe talk a little bit about the construction business.
You mentioned some weakness there I think in the U.S.
Just curious one of your competitors suggested it might be getting a little bit better.
Just curious what you guys are seeing? Yes it's -- as you know we've got a very very strong construction business not only across the U.S.
but really globally.
The most significant in the industry.
It is a sector which we like a lot for the long term.
In fact irrespective -- you kind of look at the analysis a lot of different ways but you're in the trillions when you think about sort of the infrastructure build that's going to be required around the globe we've estimates 10 trillion to 15 trillion over the course of the next couple of decades.
So we love the sector.
We love the space.
And we've simply made the most significant set of investments in this space.
But in that regard this has been a headwind for us for the last number of quarters.
With the headwind for us this quarter we definitely see some potential positive signs.
But for us this is a very very substantial bet bigger than anyone else's.
And as we start to see benefits we think they will be substantial but for now we see progress then we see good pipeline but we haven't seen it in the quarter yet.
And I just wanted to follow-up with Brian's question earlier on reinsurance revenues.
The capital markets impact in the quarter was closer to 200 basis points of organic revenue growth.
And I would want to note that Q4 2011 was a significant capital markets quarter.
And so as we think about Q4 2012 that will be a difficult comparable.
And one other follow-up if I could.
In terms of M&amp;A just curious I mean do you guys kind of see going out the pipeline still looking pretty good? And is that I believe you talked about in the past $200 million to $300 million of cash kind of allocated towards M&amp;A? That's exactly where we continue to be.
For us really is take a step back Ray.
This is -- we like the platform and the portfolio we've put in place.
It's taken us 6 to 7 years to get here.
As you think about sort of the addition of Benfield the addition of Hewitt to the mix and a number of acquisitions that have been really tucked in to build content and capability for us for us the M&amp;A strategy is not about size it's about adding true content capability that will support our clients.
And in that regard we really continue to see the $200 million to $300 million investments in these smaller tuck-in acquisitions around the world to really being part of the formal part of the strategy.
Your next question is coming from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly Christa on the reinsurance piece.
I imagine the guidance that you've kind of put out there contemplates the reinsurance trend that you're talking about is that right?  For 4Q? Yes it does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question was on the buybacks.
How much of the buyback in the third quarter was funded from the additional funds made available via redomestication? And kind of how much is left I guess? Yes.
Look as we think about buybacks for calendar year 2012 we are on track to buy back more in 2012 than 2011.
And obviously we gave guidance at the beginning of the year that was close to $150 million a quarter plus use of the international cash on the balance sheet.
And we just think about it as an overall pool including the cash flow of the company and the cash that's shored up in some [ph] investments on the balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then can you elaborate a bit on your comments? I mean Greg the -- in the press release about the Europe impact on discretionary consulting? And maybe also on a related note the increase in discretionary demand for BPO.
Just want to understand that of how that's fits with the macro in Europe.
Yes.
Really the overall macro point which is really the key one here you're raising Michael is really we see certainly pressure around the world as you read about everyday and we see it really from every corner of the world.
But it's different.
And right now as we look at the sort of the global landscape there's certainly pressure in the European quadrant.
It happens to be a place where we have substantial very strong and solid basis.
And it's just part of how Aon was built over time.
And in that context what we're seeing is essentially if you're client in that context if you've got something you can defer you can push back from a discretionary standpoint you're going to do that.
So that really is the comment on discretionary spend and sort of the pressure we're seeing in the context of that.
But having said that the platform we've got is exceptionally strong.
And this is not B2C business this is really B2B.
And at the end of the day at the heart of it clients have risk issues and people issues.
And that's why even in the context in the sort of the -- if you think about what's happened over the last number of years Aon has grown the business every year I mean except for one and that was we were I think down 1%.
So we've essentially been able to in the face of very strong economic headwinds continue to grow the business and build the business that's really one of the hallmarks of the overall platform of Aon and it's one of the things we build upon.
So there's a lot of pressure and it's had impact on the quarter but there's a lot number of things we can do sort of against that.
And then from a BPO standpoint this is really about the HR topic more broadly and just overall when you think about the things we are looking and taking the clients to sort of combat this sort of issue of discretionary spend are things that can really have impact for them in the near-term.
Things like dependent eligibility audits leave of absence reviews things like that.
Project revenues that we can really help them improve the operating performance of their business in the near term.
But these are the things we're actually bringing to them now that are  different.
So the mix has changed a bit the pressure is real but Aon's got a very strong platform to deal with it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly the retail U.S.
in Risk what happened there? I mean you mentioned a little bit about exposures and we've heard a lot about pressure on exposures in U.S.
risk.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing there and maybe the balance of that versus the other aspects of North America? Yes.
Let's step back.
As we talked about on the retail side 2% growth sort of in the Americas in the quarter and that really comes across all the Americas.
But we would reflect overall Michael 3% year-to-date.
So that's the number I'd sort of have you think about.
That's roughly where we expect sort  of the year to play out.
We obviously aspire for more across-the-board and we're making substantial investments to achieve that.
And those are starting to really make a difference a la the GRIP question from before.
But that's roughly how we're looking at it.
Remember we've got a few sectors on the -- and we talked about construction before and a few others that we've made particular investments in that we like a lot but have particular headwinds for us sort of in the near term and that really is what constrains us a bit.
But we feel like the growth profile that we've achieved year-to-date is meaningful and will continue going forward.
The next question is coming from Matthew Heimermann of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First just on the BPO business when you guys acquired Hewitt that was a business that basically had no margin whatsoever.
And I think one of the goals was to one reprice that business.
And as you put new business on that old business rolled off you get margin gains.
So I guess my question is at this point in the game have we seen any material margin contribution from that? Or is that to come when we think about some of the implementation revenues that you were talking about earlier? Yes.
Look we are very pleased with the improvement in that business.
It now does have positive margins so we continue to sort of improve margins over time.
We're working very hard to get them to a 15% margin by 2015 as we originally outlined as part of the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still more to go when we think 2013 versus '12 and '14 versus '13 '15 versus '14 et cetera? Absolutely yes.
It's continued improvement year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to the timing issue on margins right so there's some expenses that don't show up but there's also revenue that doesn't show up.
So when we think about the margins you reported in the quarter I mean you implied that was a positive.
If you had had both the expenses in the revenue show up should we have thought about margins differently than what we saw this quarter? Yes.
Look I think I wouldn't over induct too much from one quarter.
I'd look more at the year because things do move sort of -- and there were a few things that moves in our direction in Q3.
And so as you look at the overall year that's a good indication.
Deferred expenses and deferred revenue both happen and match you're right.
But deferred cost did have a positive impact on the quarterly results.
But again look at the overall year and we really think that our operating income and operating margins will continue to improve in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It just -- it seemed like when you first answered I just was following-up from the standpoint that when you first answered the question it sounded more negative then on the follow-up it sounded neutral and then it sounded a little negative again.
So the real takeaway is there's always noise quarter-to-quarter and so it might've been a little bit positive-negative but we shouldn't play that forward in any way shape or form.
That's exactly right Matthew.
Yes that's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question just on exchanges.
I mean the right way to track your progress in this business over the next couple of years I'm assuming is going to be more about the lives you have in the exchanges than the client wins? But obviously they are linked.
So I wanted to just one make sure that that was correct.
And two when we think about the -- obviously we need client wins to drive lives.
But give us a sense of how from the outside perspective what some of the data points on the client side we should kind of think about over the next couple of years to kind of measure progress here? So Matthew you're exactly right.
Again what we're doing here is we've launched 2 exchanges.
We have 2 businesses that one's been in place the Navigators on the retiree side against a pool of 48 million eligible retirees over time.
That's been in place for a number of years is tracking well and we are adding clients to that.
And then we've launched the corporate exchange.
As I described before this is different set against the set of 122 million active employees.
And you're exactly right.
What we want to able to do is these need to be up and running which they are.
Running well which they are.
Adding new clients which we are.
And you're tracking that over time and tracking the number of lives that we're actually able serve.
We're excited about as we said before with 100 000 lives in the corporate exchange we're truly proving a concept.
It's something that's never been done before that gives CFOs and heads of HR and business leaders the opportunity to really deal with the increasing health care costs but do it in a way that they can serve their employee base as well.
And we're quite excited about that.
So in many respects we've got 2 highly viable new businesses up and running that really are changing the shape and the foundation of how businesses think about health care coverage over time.
And so for us it is making sure we've solidly proven those concepts and then growing those overtime.
And you're exactly right for 2013 it's about how we add companies and clients to that list and then how we add lives to that list.
And that's exactly what we are on track to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- yes I'm sorry.
And as we think about the economic model of health care exchanges for us we're earning a commission on the premium placed which is a very attractive economic model.
And as we scale participants overtime that becomes more economic.
And that's really how the return comes in sort of 2014 onwards.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm assuming you also get some economics from the administration piece of it correct which was -- which is kind of an HR benefits administration-like service correct? A little bit yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to clarify one other issue.
I mean a lot of the conversations around us now with -- who knows what's going to happen with the election but obviously people are talking about possibilities that they didn't -- weren't talking about maybe a month ago.
But can you talk -- I mean I think there's a perception out there that this is -- your investment is basically a binary outcome on Obamacare.
Can you tell us why that's not the case? I have my own view but I'd like to hear yours.
Well I really appreciate you raising that because we don't see -- the election obviously of interest to everyone but doesn't really have a particular impact directly on the investments we're making here.
And again if you step back just think about the corporate exchange for a minute.
122 million active employees today when you think about the companies in their opinions.
We've actually surveyed -- if you remember we actually have access and connections to literally in top thousand companies around the world all their heads of HR and all their CFOs.
94% have committed to health care coverage.
So overwhelmingly saying we're going to provide some way.
We're going to make sure there's coverage available so no one's going to walk away here.
And only 1/3 really have a strategy to do that.
So there's a great opportunity for us to help them bring clarity to what that space looks like.
And we actually surveyed them and even without an exchange in place a full 43% of them have said they're willing to try an exchange.
So just think about that in the context sort of the overall corporate environment.
A tremendous opportunity of companies saying "My gosh we have a problem.
" And remember Obamacare or whatever you want to describe it health care coverage as it currently exists doesn't fundamentally address the issue of expense here at all nor does it address the issue of wellness.
So expense is going up and wellness is going down.
That is a fundamental reality and that's where we're really helping companies think through.
So it's really independent of political parties it's independent of policy it's a fundamental business set of reasons which are driving our investment in health care exchanges and that's why we're so excited about them.
Fundamentally we win when our clients win.
And in this case there is a massive massive issue for them that they've got to address and this is a very viable platform for them to address that issue.
The next question is coming from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I wanted to just clarify 2 things.
One for Christa.
You called out that the capital markets or the reinsurance comparables are a difficult one for the fourth quarter.
You also quantified the impact for this quarter.
Can you do the same for the fourth just give us the exact numbers? For the fourth quarter...
Research Division</strong> In terms of what it was last year so we can model accordingly.
Almost all of it what was capital markets in Q4 2011 is a good way to think about it.
It keeps...
Research Division</strong> Almost all the growth? [indiscernible] smallest quarter for reinsurance.
Yes.
It's both a combination really.
Q4 is the smallest quarter for us and we just had a very very -- it was a great client-to-client example for us but a very substantial win in Q4 last year.
And that's not going to be here this year.
So in that context that's really the market comparable.
And this is really just the fundamental issue around the lumpiness of our fact business and our capital markets business.
Be clear we expect to grow this business over time.
We expect modes growth in this business over time.
The Aon Benfield platform is just done wonderfully well.
As both Christa and I described 6 consecutive quarters of treaty net wins.
By the way we see treaty growth positive in the fourth quarter although as Christa described our smallest quarter but it's just going to be offset by a substantial substantial transaction that happened in Q4 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then again another clarifying question.
On Risk Solutions Greg you mentioned I guess macro headwinds macro concerns.
Is this -- was your commentary directed towards just be HR business? Just towards Risk Solutions or the entire corporation? Can you just expand a little as we think about the organic going forward especially for Risk Solutions? That's where I'm most focused.
Well let's say on Risk solutions.
I mean there is on Risk Solutions front we've seen positive pricing trends for the last number of quarters as we saw -- as we described sort of from the GRIP analytics that have -- a healthy overall industry.
Against that context you have an economy that creates the headwinds that come against that around discretionary spend and then all the pieces in the context of that.
We're not going to change our view.
It's basically -- it remains fragile.
We're going to work through it we're going to grow organically in the context of it.
But those are some the macro headwinds I was trying to describe.
And then underlying that is just the capital buildup that continues to happen in the overall insurance industry and we're always mindful of that.
But as we said before we have a name.
We're going to grow organically.
We're going to improve margins.
We're going to increase earnings per share.
And we're going to do it irrespective of the environment and we expect to do that in Risk Solutions in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up there and I know you've talked about this in the past but just can you remind us in Risk Solutions what's sort of your minimum organic that you need to grow the operating margins? Sounds like almost in any world you think you can do it.
But sort of how do we think about that sensitivity of whatever organic we come up with relative to your ability to drive the margins? Yes.
I would give you 2 ways to think about this Greg.
The first is in the depth of the economic recession where insurance rates were 5% to 10% down real and we had declines in insured values which were a much bigger impact on the firm the worst we saw in 2009 was minus 1% organic revenue growth.
So the investments we're making allow us to sort of outgrow that.
The other way I guess I would say is we have a natural if you think about sort of the margin expansion we have a natural inflationary portion in the expense base.
So let's call that sort of 2% that we need to sort of grow over to expand margins.
The next question is coming from Mike Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up on the exchange.
So one of your competitors recently acquired an active exchange.
So if we -- will the economics of your corporate exchange be similar to that one if we study the one that one that Towers Watson owns? Well remember the Extend Health that I believe you're talking about with Towers Watson is a retiree exchange.
So this is really analogous to our Aon Hewitt Navigators business.
So we have had that in place for a number of years.
And I said before love the platform love the progress that the teams made with it and that continues to build and grow.
And that would be more of a direct competitor from that standpoint.
We then would separate an additional platform we have that doesn't exist anywhere else and that's the corporate exchange.
So this is 2 separate businesses 2 separate initiatives we're taking sort of in the context of this and building both of those businesses.
And the corporate exchange as I described before is really the first of its kind.
And it really is the first of its kind that addresses the great -- the pool I described the 122 million-plus of active employee.
So it's really 2 separate businesses.
And in terms of the economics I would say obviously the Extend Health is a good proxy for our retirement exchange business.
As we think about our corporate exchange business it's leveraging the platform we already have in benefits administration and we're selling to the same client base and so we already have a scaled platform to operate that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay I know you guys are doing I think a mini-teach-in on this in a month.
So I will learn more there.
Okay.
Next on the pension.
I was just curious.
So given the drop in interest rates in both the U.S.
and Europe this year could your 2013 pension contribution cash flow projections change? And related I know there's been a couple large corporate pension plans solution transactions announced recently.
I think you guys were actually involved in the one with Verizon and Prudential.
Is Aon exploring a solution as well for its pension deficit? So what I would say is we've taken steps already over the last couple of years to mitigate volatility in the size and risk of our pension plans.
We've closed plans new entrants we've frozen the benefits and we've derisked the impulsion of the plans.
And I did note in my earlier comments that on September 30 we made a move to aggregate 5 of the 7 Aon and legacy Hewitt plans into one plan in the U.K.
And as a result of that we've substantially decreased the costs of running those plans.
And we made an additional contribution of $80 million that was discretionary.
And so our contributions in 2012 will be $641 million.
And they will decline in 2013 despite the decline in discount rates in 2012.
And the other thing I would note is that pension expense will also decline in 2013 as a result of the move we've made.
Our pension plans are much less volatile they're derisks.
And if rates go lower potentially there's also upside if they go higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That make sense.
In regards to a solution is that something you guys always are thinking about? Kind of a...
You should think we think of everything and we look at everything.
The next question is coming from Paul Newsome Sandler O'Neill.
The -- I missed what the description of the discrete benefits for the -- on the tax.
Could you give us a little color on that? As well as could you talk about prospectively is the decline in the effective tax rate that we are looking at principally do the elimination of extraterritorial taxation or is there other stuff going on there as well? So as we think about the overall sort of effective tax rate and the decline from 29% at the beginning of calendar year 2012 to the 26% we've announced to Q4 2012 and going forward we are making progress on the benefits of the move to the U.K.
with that effective tax rate decline.
We have an overall plan in place and as we continue to execute on that plan and get more certainty on it we'll continue to update you.
With respect to the quarter and the tax rate from continuing operations it's -- it declined to 23.2% and that was a result of certain discrete tax adjustments principally from our tax return in 2011.
As you think about your model going forward 26% is the right go forward rate.
Okay.
And separately I just -- more out of curiosity than anything the cash restructuring payments that you talked about go out in as far as of 2015.
What are the characteristics of those kind of cash restructuring charges that you'd see that far out from when you [indiscernible] Yes it's mostly lease payment.
As you think about restructuring leases and closing down activities if you refer to sort of Page 11 it gives you those restructuring cash payments out over time.
And it is mainly related to leases because the people costs happen fairly quickly.
And then finally the $300 million in cash that was going to be freed up from the change in domicile has that been moved up to the parent or we -- is that something possibly in the future we'll see...
Yes as -- we think about as I said earlier as one cash pool.
And we access that and we think about returning the returns on the cash pool maximized through return on capital measured on a cash-on-cash basis.
And we are disproportionately allocating it towards share buyback given we believe we're substantially undervalued hence the 275 million of share buyback you saw in Q3 which is the most significant we've done in the quarter over the last 12 months.
No further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Greg Case for closing remarks.
Well thanks Catherine.
And I just want to say to everybody thank you very much for your interest in Aon and we look forward to the next quarterly call.
Thanks very much.
This will conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our fourth quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
You may begin.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
And we note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
And third is continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 3 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins and increase earnings per share.
Additionally beginning this quarter and going forward we'll add free cash flow to our key metrics given its fundamental importance to the value of the firm and how we think about value creation for shareholders.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the fourth quarter organic revenue growth was 4% overall driven by solid growth across all businesses in both Risk Solutions and HR Solutions.
Operating margin was flat overall.
An increase in HR Solutions margin was offset by certain nonrecurring items of both risk and the unallocated section.
EPS increased 9% to $1.27 reflecting both solid operating performance and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow increased 243% to $484 million driven by strong working capital performance.
If we turn to the full year organic revenue growth was 4% overall a continued rate of improved organic revenue growth from 2% in 2011 flat in 2010 and minus 1% in 2009.
Operating margin declined 40 basis points driven predominantly by an increased level of investment spend in the first half of 2012.
EPS increased 4% to $4.21.
And finally free cash flow increased 48% to $1.2 billion driven by a record $1.4 billion cash flow from operations a truly incredible effort from the team.
Overall both a solid finish to a challenging year and a year of substantial progress to strengthen our industry-leading platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% compared to 2% in the prior-year quarter with growth across every major business.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of 90% or better on average highlighting strong client satisfaction.
New business generation of more than $300 million across our Retail business with record new business in U.S.
Retail and double-digit new business growth in many markets globally across the Asia and Pacific regions.
Investments in new products and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP and Aon Broking globally.
And in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 7 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth increased 4% compared to 3% in the prior-year quarter.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting the steady pace of change over the last 12 months.
We saw solid growth across all regions including Latin America U.S.
Retail and Canada.
In U.S.
Retail we delivered solid growth driven by a record level of new business including growth in property/casualty Health and Benefits construction and M&amp;A.
A really tremendous effort across the team given significant disruptions from Superstorm Sandy in Q4 supporting clients and dealing with personal tragedy all at the same time.
In International organic revenue growth increased 2% compared to 1% in the prior-year quarter.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions and softer pricing in regions across Europe.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets in New Zealand and in many regions across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as India China and Taiwan.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe macroeconomic conditions remained fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across this region we saw strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio delivered modest growth.
Overall a solid performance against economic and market headwinds.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 2% compared to 4% in the prior-year quarter.
The results reflect strong growth in our treaty business globally overcoming an anticipated decline given the challenging prior-year comparable quarter in the capital markets transactions and advisory business.
In treaty as mentioned before net new business won was positive for the seventh consecutive quarter and results benefited from favorable market pricing impact in the near term primarily due to losses incurred in the prior year from property cat-exposed regions.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's value proposition for clients of strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
As we noted last quarter record capacity continues to be available to meet demand and cedents are retaining more risk.
Absent any events in the industry macro factors may return as a headwind as we will have to overcome in 2013.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth improved to 6% compared to 4% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw the rate of organic growth improve across both Consulting and Outsourcing despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in Continental Europe.
Performance also reflects growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as health care exchanges investment consulting pension risk management consulting and HR BPO.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and associated financial risk continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at the local level managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are just beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic growth was 8% compared to 3% in the prior-year quarter.
Results reflect strong demand across our Retirement business for investment consulting and pension administration services including growth from certain nonrecurring product-related work primarily to help clients to think about derisking defined benefit plans.
We also saw strong growth in talent rewards primarily for compensation benchmarking.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth improved to 6% compared to 4% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw strong growth in health care exchanges and in HR BPO from new client wins partially offset by a decline in benefits administration.
Growth in health care exchanges was driven by renewals in our retiree exchange and the official launch of our corporate health care exchange in which the majority of the revenue related to the active participants is recognized in the fourth quarter from a normal enrollment cycle.
If you think about the corporate exchange the progress of the team has been a truly outstanding accomplishment.
From concept in 2011 to launch in Q4 of the industry's only active corporate exchange enrollment of roughly 100 000 employees plus eligible dependents.
All participating clients are referenceable with representation from both existing and new clients on the exchange for Aon.
It's really great progress on the team in the health care exchange area reflecting the strength of our industry-leading platform across employee benefits design brokerage and administration.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: In HR Solutions as mentioned before we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position in health care exchanges both in the retiree and active markets.
Health care exchanges enable clients to begin the shift of their participants to a market-based defined contribution model for health care while addressing unsustainable health care cost increases and decreasing population health.
While already a leader in the retiree market we launched the industry's first and only fully insured multi-carrier corporate exchange in Q4.
And we'll be focused on driving greater scale in 2013 and improve returns in 2014.
We're expanding our Outsourcing offerings in high-growth areas such as financial advisory services for retirement plan participants.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platform.
And we're developing new delegated solutions in investment consulting and pension risk management that leverage our total capabilities across advisory and delivery services.
A great example in this area was our recent advisory work for a large client around pension settlement and derisking activities which led to one of the largest insured annuity settlement transactions in U.S.
history.
Finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent capabilities across Asia and the emerging markets.
In Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the Revenue Engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have roughly 1.5 million trades and more than $80 billion of bound premium and a growing list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and service capabilities.
In addition we're driving and delivering our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
In 2012 we aligned our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
And finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia in specialty sectors and in our GRIP services business.
Overall we proved the concept through these major investments in 2012 and as we move across 2013 we're on plan to deliver greater scale and increased operating leverage.
In summary we delivered an improved rate of organic revenue growth across both Risk and HR Solutions made substantial and significant strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth delivered record cash flow and took important steps to strengthen our global firm highlighted by the re-domicile from Chicago to the U.K.
completed earlier this year.
With key members of the management team now fully relocated to London and as a U.K.
headquarter multinational group we're seeing increased interaction with international and emerging market clients reinforcing our relationships with London markets increasing our international brand awareness driving the financial benefits related to the transaction and appreciating the opportunities to strengthen our relationship with the U.K.
government.
And with that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our performance reflects solid organic revenue growth significant investments to strengthen our platform strong free cash flow and effective allocation of capital as highlighted by the repurchase of $500 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
I would note this is more share repurchase than we've done in any quarter since 2008 and is both the reflection of our belief in the underlying value of the firm and the record cash flow from operations we delivered in 2012.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter as highlighted on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 9% to $1.27 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $1.16 in the prior-year quarter.
Results reflect improved organic growth across both segments a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management in the quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in schedules on Page 13 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization restructuring charges and re-domicile costs primarily for legal and advisory fees.
Foreign currency exchange rates have no material impact on earnings per share in the quarter from a translation standpoint.
If currency would have remained stable at today's rates we would expect no material translation impact to EPS in the first quarter of 2013.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3% operating margin was flat at 23.2% and operating income increased 2% versus the prior-year quarter.
Included in operating income was an unfavorable impact from nonrecurring items and a $7 million or a 30 basis point decline in investment income from lower short-term interest rates globally.
Organic revenue growth and a modest benefit from restructuring savings in the quarter were primarily offset by these 2 items.
Let me spend a moment on formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
The Aon Benfield's restructuring program is now complete.
Savings in the fourth quarter are estimated at $36 million compared to $33 million in the prior-year quarter.
The Aon Benfield program delivered cumulative expense savings of $146 million in 2012 compared to $122 million in 2011.
Associated with the transfer of the Health and Benefits business at January 1 2012 an estimated $52 million of restructuring savings under the Aon Hewitt program will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $40 million of the $52 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program including an estimated $7 million of incremental savings in the fourth quarter.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 14 of the press release.
In 2012 we strengthened the Risk Solutions platform with significant investments in GRIP and key talents managed through continued economic uncertainty in Europe and absorbed an unfavorable impact from both investment income and foreign currency translation.
Against these challenges Risk Solutions margin increased 10 basis points to 21.7% and operating income increased 2% placing us on track for a stronger performance in 2013.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 6%.
Operating margin increased 50 basis points to 17% and operating income increased 11% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Strong organic revenue and $17 million of incremental restructuring savings more than offset our significant investments in long-term growth initiatives and an unfavorable revenue mix shift.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $41 million of charges in the quarter.
Cumulative savings related to the formal restructuring program in the fourth quarter are estimated at $67 million compared to $43 million in the prior-year quarter of which approximately $7 million of the incremental savings were achieved in the Risk segment.
While we are always cautious not to overplay the results of 1 quarter our results reflect a solid performance.
For the full year we are primarily on track with the plans that we laid out at the beginning of 2012 which included: number one improved organic growth in both businesses; number two investments in new growth opportunities; number three savings delivered related to the restructuring program; and number four performance that would improve in the second half of the year.
As we think about full year 2013 we expect to: number one deliver continued organic growth; number two drive greater scale from the investments we made in 2012; number three deliver additional savings related to the restructuring program; number four deliver performance modestly down in the first half and up in the second half of the year resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth and margin expansion for the year.
Our guidance is a reflection of the seasonality of our business being weighted more towards the second half similar to 2012.
This is due to revenue recognition from health care exchanges in Q4 the timing of cost savings initiatives plus investments in the business.
This is not a change in our long-term outlook and continues to reflect the path we laid out at the beginning of 2012 for improved operational performance in 2013.
Turning to the next slide on our long-term operating margin targets.
We continue to drive a set of initiatives to improve operating performance on an annual basis.
While we've improved operating margins 510 basis points over the last 7 years our long-term operating margin target of 26% for Risk Solutions reflects significant opportunity for further margin expansion in the following 5 ways: number one deliver $16 million of remaining restructuring savings and other operational improvements; number two continued rollout of Revenue Engine internationally; number three Aon Broking and GRIP-related initiatives.
These 3 are fully within our control.
In addition there are 2 additional macro drivers that provide significant operating leverage based on improvements in the external markets: number four increases in short-term interest rates; number five industry improvements driving higher insured values or insurance pricing.
Similarly for HR Solutions while we've improved operating margins over 1 000 basis points over the last 7 years our long-term operating margin target of 22% reflects significant opportunity for further margin improvement in the following 3 ways: number one deliver $32 million of remaining restructuring savings after the transfer of savings for Health and Benefits; number two growth in the core business and return on incremental investments including health care exchanges; number three improvements in HR BPO.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on the next slide.
Unallocated expenses were $48 million including $3 million of nonrecurring costs related to the debt exchange offer completed in December and certain expenses related to the re-domicile.
Interest income was flat at $4 million.
Interest expense decreased $4 million to $55 million due to a decline in the average rate and the total debt -- amount of debt outstanding in the quarter.
Other income had no impact in the quarter.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $40 million of unallocated expense and $57 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations decreased to 25.2% in the fourth quarter compared to 27% in the prior-year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2012 was favorably impacted by certain discrete tax adjustments.
We currently anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 26% in 2013.
Minority interest was $2 million roughly similar to $3 million in the prior-year quarter.
With consolidation of one of our major joint ventures in Asia into consolidated results we would now expect minority interest to be approximately $7 million per quarter going forward.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased 327.5 million in the fourth quarter compared to 337.9 million in the prior-year quarter due primarily to our share repurchase program.
The company repurchased 8.9 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $500 million in the fourth quarter and has approximately $4 billion of remaining authorization.
Actual shares outstanding on December 31 were 310.9 million and there are approximately 11.5 million of additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q1 2013 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 322.4 million.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At December 31 cash and short-term investments were $637 million and total debt outstanding was $4.2 billion.
Cash and short-term investments declined due to the use of excess capital held internationally on the balance sheet.
Overall debt-to-capital was 34.9% at December 31 compared to 34.6% at September 30.
As Greg mentioned we've added free cash flow as our fourth key metric to measure performance each year given its fundamental importance to both the value of the firm and how we think about value creation for shareholders.
Cash flow from operations increased 139% to $552 million in the fourth quarter compared to $231 million in the prior-year quarter.
Cash flow from operations for 2012 increased 39% to a record $1.4 billion compared to 1.1 -- sorry $1 billion in 2011.
Improved working capital performance more than offset cash contributions to the major pension plans that increased $106 million in the fourth quarter and increased $186 million for the year.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 243% to $484 million in the fourth quarter compared to $141 million in the prior-year quarter reflecting a significant increase in cash flow from operations and a $22 million decrease in CapEx.
Free cash flow for 2012 was $1.2 billion up 48% from $777 million in 2011.
Strong free cash flow generation enabled the return of more than $1.3 billion of capital to shareholders in 2012 through share repurchase and dividends.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
As you can see from the chart we've now laid out the major uses of cash including pension contributions and restructuring cash.
Based on the current assumptions we expect these 2 uses of cash to substantially decline over the next 5 years resulting in a greater financial flexibility and significantly increased free cash flow.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans' new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
In 2012 we contributed approximately $638 million to our plans.
Combined with these steps we've undertaken over the last several years our overall funding status improved to 82% from 78% despite an increase in the overall liability from lower discount rate assumptions.
We currently expect contributions to decline $90 million to $548 million in 2013 and continue the decline thereafter resulting in fully funded qualified plans on a GAAP basis by the end of 2016.
Additionally noncash pension expense was roughly $53 million in 2012 and we expect a modest decline in 2013.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $143 million in 2012.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $49 million to approximately $94 million in 2013 before declining further each year thereafter.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash decline we expect our strong free cash flow to continue to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
In 2012 we took significant steps to unlock that value for shareholders by increasing our strategic position and financial flexibility with the re-domicile to the U.K.
The company completed its change in jurisdiction of incorporation on April 2 2012.
And we believe the transaction will help drive shareholder value through: number one greater global access to expected increases in future free cash flow; number two an increase in future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term more than what we've done over the last 5 years which is approximately 500 basis points; number three enabled us to access $300 million of excess cash held internationally on our balance sheet during 2012.
In summary we delivered improved growth in 2012 and we have significant leverage to an improving global economy.
While we're investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we are focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute to substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years: first continued growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term targets; second declining uses of cash for pension and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate resulting from our re-domicile to the U.K.
Combined with a stronger balance sheet and greater financial flexibility we've positioned the firm to significant shareholder value creation.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Michael Nannizzi.
Research Division</strong> Christa so did you say -- you said mid-single digits improvement in Consulting earnings is that correct? Yes so HR Solutions operating income will grow mid-single digits in 2013.
And we also said that we would expect margin expansion in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean in order to have double-digit earnings per share growth in the company what do you need from brokerage or deployment to get there? Michael we're not giving that level of guidance.
Really we've invested significantly in 2012 and we expect that free cash flow growth is really going to be driven by improved growth and operating margin expansion decreased uses of cash and significant improvements in cash flow from our reduced tax rate.
As we think about EPS growth it's really improvement in operating margin in both Risk and HR it's effective deployment of capital as you've seen during 2012 with share buyback and continued improvements in effective tax rate.
And I'll just add Michael as you think about our portfolios come together the Risk Solutions part of the business ARS first Aon Benfield are kind -- a little ahead of where Aon Hewitt is and HR Solutions is which has sort of come together in terms of overall growth and development of the business and that's what you're seeing develop here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess if I remember right in the second quarter I thought Christa maybe you had said that the expectations were for margin improvement on a year-over-year basis in Risk in the fourth quarter.
Is that right or did I not have my notes right? We did originally anticipate that and what we would say now is there were 2 specific items in the fourth quarter 2012 in Risk Solutions.
One was a $7 million impact related to investment income so a 30-basis-point decline related to that.
We did have interest rates decline even further in Australia and Europe which is hard to believe but true.
And then we had a onetime item related to Denmark of $7 million or a 30-basis-point impact.
So 60 basis points between those 2 items.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the deployment.
I mean do you feel like you're going to be providing free cash flow I guess from now it sounds like on a quarterly basis? How should we think about the fourth quarter in context? Is that -- are we assuming that that was facilitated by some of the capital that was freed up during the repatriation? Or is there kind of an increased factor as far as the ability to deploy capital based on what you had given us in the past for expectations in 2012? Yes Michael it is exactly cash freed up from repatriation.
If you look at share repurchase during the course of 2012 we repurchased $1.1 billion.
Included in that was $300 million freed up from international cash held on our balance sheet.
So $800 million is the underlying amount of share repurchase.
And if you think about share repurchases for 2013 we would say it will be similar to 2012.
And similarly patterned a la back-half weighted given that's where our seasonality in our business and cash generation occurs.
The next question is from Dan Farrell from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a follow-up on the Brokerage business.
So I know you grew margins if you adjust Denmark.
And then even if you look at the change in the fiduciary income I think you would've expected that it would be down versus the 14 a year ago.
So there is improvement but it still feels like it didn't come through as much as you might have thought it would.
And I'm wondering if there's anything else from an expense or revenue issue that we should be thinking about as we think about earnings power for next year? Dan we don't think there is.
In fact if you step back and think about how the margin evolved Christa highlighted a few one-timers for Q4 which you're always going to have back and forth.
As we think about margins for the year we put it in context of we're up slightly.
But what was more important for us from an operating margin leverage standpoint is the investments we were able to make in 2012 and how we were able to absorb them completely and still have positive margins for the year.
When you think about our investment in GRIP which we talked about in the first second and third quarter it was really at an unprecedented level as we've rolled that out with investments in Aon Benfield analytics Aon Broking et cetera.
So we were able to make a series of investments that we think are fundamentally strengthening the operating leverage of the company and still absorb all that in the year.
So from our standpoint as we reflect on '12 we feel very good about the prospects for '13 and '14 from a margin expansion standpoint.
And in many respects when we think about sort of how those investments have actually played out and you couldn't have made them in a year and still recovered margin unless they were really starting to pay dividends we feel actually quite good about progress toward the 26% as Christa described.
And then if you combine that with sort of the engine of the firm around record or substantial growth certainly greater than any time over the last number of years the cash flow generation in that engine is now just kicking in in the way Christa described and then the re-domicile of the headquarters to the U.K which is principally going to help the Risk Solutions business more than any other we feel good about operating leverage through '13 and '14 in fact probably stronger now than we did at the beginning of '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question just on balance sheet cash.
Of the $600 million roughly of unrestricted at the end of the quarter how much of that do you feel is usable? And then also there's the $350 million of higher invoicing that's dragging cash.
If I recall at the beginning of the year it was closer to $400 million so you've had a little unwind.
But I thought the beginning of the year felt like most of that would resolve through 2012.
And it doesn't seem like that much has.
So I'm just wondering on the timing of when the rest of that $350 million actually comes back into the balance sheet cash.
Right.
So we do -- we have made progress during this quarter approximately $25 million.
So at the end of Q3 it was $375 million at the end of Q4 it was $350 million.
We do expect the remaining $350 million to reverse itself during 2013 so that will be a sort of improvement in working capital during the course of 2013.
The next question is from Adam Klauber from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> How much did -- what was the investment level in health -- HR Solutions in 2012? And would you expect that investment level to be around the same in 2013 higher or lower? Yes.
So we originally said Adam that would spend $35 million in 2011 an additional $40 million in '12 and that that would decline in '13 with getting a return on that investment in sort of '14 onwards.
We expect that still to be the case.
We still will be in investment mode in '13 but we will absorb that investment to generate as I said mid-single digit operating income growth for the year.
And the way that investment will pattern itself is it will be investing through the first 3 quarters of 2013 and revenue is recognized in Q4.
And that's really why as I described operating income growth of mid-single digits for the year will be down modestly in the first half and up in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as far as the health care exchanges how big is the retiree exchange number one? And number two maybe if you could give some color on the implementation of the active exchanges? From what I've heard it was a little bumpy on the retiree side originally.
Could you contrast how the implementation has been on the active compared to the retiree would be helpful? Well start overall I remember describing sort of the opportunities we see as substantial on both the retiree side and on the active side.
We watched this market the potential for this market evolve over the last few years and we're probably as positive on it as we've ever been with 48 million eligible retirees out there and 122 million active employees with employer-sponsored plans there's just tremendous opportunity here.
The retiree exchange Navigators who has about 100 000 retirees on it it's the leading platform in the industry it's done very very well.
As we started up last year we progressed through the normal set of beginnings that one would expect but have really come through this cycle exceptionally well.
Our team couldn't be more pleased with where we stand right now on that platform on our retiree side.
And we're investing as Christa described before to even strengthen that platform.
So we fully believe we've got an industry -- the industry-leading platform on the retiree side with Navigators and going exceptionally well with very very high interest.
And then we're also quite excited about the corporate exchange.
There's been a lot of talk out there around exchanges.
And we were the first to actually launch it we made it real.
And we brought 3 companies in.
We now have over 100 000 enrolled employees plus dependents.
And it's just went exceptionally well the employee response has been very good the company response has been very good.
And what we're most excited about is the pipeline for 2013.
Because as companies have come online and actually seen the concept proven they're quite excited about the potential to think through how they can both begin to get a bit of a handle on health care cost but do it in a way that really works for their employees which is very very important in the process.
So we're positive about these investments feel very very good about it.
The team has done a great job.
I've put them in context this is part of a $3.9 billion $4 billion HR Solutions business with lots of other things going on on the retiree side and elsewhere just exceptional platforms there.
But on this specific piece around health care exchanges feel very good about both the retiree and the corporate exchanges.
The next question is from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First Greg I wonder if you could talk a little bit about Europe and what's going on in Europe with respect to your business kind of exposures any headwinds that you foresee from economic activity? Yes I would -- Brian as you know we've got very very strong businesses across Europe and really exceptional platforms.
And while it's been variable in different countries Europe has long been I think a fiction of the U.S.'s imagination.
This is a whole series of individual countries driving a set of agendas and focus.
And we react locally to each one of those situations and the team has done a very good job which is why we've been able to grow in Europe in spite of the headwinds.
But we're seeing if you think about characterizing the world probably a bit more instability and volatility in Europe than maybe anyplace in the world right now.
I'd remind you by the way this has been the -- this would have been the conversation we've been having about the U.S.
a few years ago and we managed through that.
We'll do the same on the European front.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that's terrific.
And then I was wondering if  you could talk a little more about GRIP here? Is there more investment plans here in 2013 or we're pretty much done with that? And should we start to see the benefits in '13? Yes was what we said back to the margin question from before we made substantial investments in GRIP as we really watched it evolve and at the beginning of 2012 realized the potential.
And really we're able to absorb those in year so not only do we make the investments we're able to absorb and increase margin in year.
We'll always continue to invest to build on it.
We now are going to move to Health and Benefits in GRIP as well so there's lots of different opportunities.
But I would say the return profile moving into '13 and '14 is exactly what we hoped it would be.
And the proof of concept there is we were able to achieve as we said before positive margin in '12 even though we made a significant investment.
So just start to see that dynamic shift a bit in '13 and '14 we think that bodes very well.
The next question is from Meyer Shields from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Christa I just want to clarify your comments.
When you talked about the low -- I'm sorry the mid-single digit growth was that just in the HR Solutions business or is that for Aon as a whole? That was just the mid solutions -- that was just the HR Solutions business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I wrote that down wrong.
When we look at the planned use of cash the cash expenditures anticipated for restructuring in 2013 went up and I was wondering if you could talk about that? No they went down.
So if you look at the slide deck that we released let me just get the page for you.
It is -- Page 11 of the deck shows that restructuring cash in 2012 is $143 million and restructuring cash in 2013 is $94 million.
Therefore your question CapEx? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No the question was the $94 million.
I think in the third quarter the slide showed $77 million for 2013.
Yes look the timing of these amounts will change slightly.
So obviously we're forecasting at any particular point in time.
As we complete plans and implement them over time the numbers will change slightly.
But it is -- the long-term amount is declining as each year passes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it reasonable to expect to continue -- I know you might be describing derisking of the defined benefit plans revenues as nonrecurring.
Is that something that's nonrecurring for the long term? Or even in the short term we don't expect a lot of similar revenue? All we're doing Meyer now is pointing out that we had a lot of activity in Q4.
It was actually for the team it was extraordinary to see.
We were in fact privileged to work on some of the most significant situations out there as companies with underfunded pensions are really taking steps and actions to deal with those.
You can imagine in many respects this is like our M&amp;A advisory business or our cap on business that literally it's going to be lumpy it's going to be transaction-oriented.
We said onetime because you're going to do it and you're going to that advice with the company in one time but you can imagine there are going to be many many companies over time actually wanting to think about doing this.
So we see the potential as quite substantial and all we were doing is just highlighting in Q4 that there was a lot of activity as really we begin the journey to really take action against this very very important issue.
The next question is from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just one I guess clarification.
Greg in your initial responses you talked about still seeing some macro headwinds or the reemergence of macro headwinds in 2013.
Was that a European comment or was there other things involved with that? Yes what I was really referring to was on the Reinsurance side just an observation.
And if you think about where we are sort of in the reinsurance world the capacity really has emerged at an all-time high.
So we're at give or take around $500  billion right now.
And it references $455 billion in 2011 so there's a substantial increase people with lots of different activity.
There are new sources of capital that want to come in so whether it's in pension funds or life insurers or high net worth individuals and by the way Aon Benfield is incredibly well positioned to help facilitate the entrance of that capital and at the same time cedents are increasing retentions.
All I was just highlighting is when you think about the headwinds around market impact you can imagine that could reemerge in '13 at some point and it's just something we have to deal with which we've done before.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one more quick question then.
Some of the pension work has closed out things that you worked on.
The margin associated with those types of projects tend to be higher or lower than your normal margin? I mean we don't reveal specific margins in our pension business.
What I would say is we have an industry-leading platform and we are doing some of the world's most innovative work.
And we're very proud of the work we've done during the course of 2012.
And we believe more of that type of derisking and buyout-type activity will occur in 2013.
Jay this is fundamentally advice on some of the most important topics that affect our clients' balance sheets and operating statements and the work reflects that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could squeeze in one more  question.
Capital usage clearly you've signaled and you've shown that buybacks for you is the way you're using your excess capital.
Why the strong desire to buy back stock versus dividends? Jay we allocate capital as we've described before on a return on capital basis cash on cash.
And as we look at the discounted cash-flow view of our own business and valuation we think we are substantially undervalued today.
And on that basis we think the return on capital share buyback is in excess of dividends.
And so we're allocating capital that way.
Having said that we did increase the dividend in 2012.
And over time we'll continue to think about the dividend more.
The next question is from Matthew Heimermann from JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I need a little bit of help with Consulting side.
And the reason is that in 2012 in the first half you characterized about $33 million of investments in health care exchanges as onetime.
And if you simply just reverse those you assume that doesn't recur in 2013 that would get you to the mid-single digit operating income growth which would kind of imply that there's no growth coming from anywhere else.
So I'm just -- that doesn't sound quite right to me.
So I'm wondering what I'm missing in that thought process? Yes let me help clarify for you Matthew.
The health care exchanges' investment is not a onetime investment it's in people and IT and I would say...
Research Division</strong> But Christa in the first half you specifically called out $33 million of investment which you -- which were incremental to what the kind of ongoing expenses are.
So I completely understand that those expenses run ahead of the revenue.
But that's what I'm addressing.
Yes and what we said Matthew for the full year was that we would invest about $35 million in 2011 an incremental $40 million in the course of 2012.
And as I said in my comments we're investing in 2013 as well but we're absorbing that investment to deliver mid-single digit operating income growth.
And the expense the way the expense patterns during the course of the year because revenue is recognized in that business only in Q4 is that you get expense Q1 through Q3 then you get revenue recognized in Q4 which therefore gets sort of improved returns.
And that's why you see the patterning that we saw in the first half of '12 versus the second half of '12.
Research Division</strong> I think the issue then is and maybe it was just me but I don't think I'm alone in this is that I think most people perceive those to be incremental to the run rate or perceive them to be characterized as such.
So I think when people are kind of asking the question on mid-single digit that's where the confusion is coming from.
Because mid-single digit like-for-like doesn't seem unreasonable but I think most people were thinking you would -- you had some one-offs that likely weren't going to recur.
And that's kind of building on kind of how things have been characterized in 4Q.
But anyways just...
Matthew we continue to say that we think we'll get a return on this health care exchange business in 2014 onwards.
It is a long-term investment.
It takes quite some time.
We described the economics and why the economics take time to scale.
We feel very good about the opportunity in the return that's going to be substantially above our average margin in our HR Solutions business and therefore help us materially contribute to hitting our 22% long-term target.
Research Division</strong> I don't disagree with the outlook for exchanges just noting that.
The -- with respect to the growth in 4Q I was wondering if you could help put that growth in annual -- kind of on an annualized context? Specifically I mean is that kind of -- I know disproportionally will be a 4Q revenue recognition but if I look at kind of the delta relative to what I was looking for it kind of implies about 100 basis-point kind of annualized benefit for this year.
Is that in the ballpark of how you would characterize it? As we think about -- and you're talking about the HR Solutions business? Research Division</strong> Yes just the health care exchange benefit to growth yes.
Yes the health care again put in perspective overall we're around $3.9 billion $4 billion top-line business.
Of which -- a portion of which about 40% or so is on sort of in the category around health.
And in that context we're talking about a much smaller investment in the health care exchanges.
It will have an impact on top line and -- but it's going to be marginal.
The engine you're seeing here on the growth side is really driven around the Consulting business the admin business and HR BPO and the fundamental the core businesses we've got.
Health care exchanges are again for us a very exciting significant opportunity.
As Christa described we took the position we needed to make significant investments to do that and pull it off and we did.
We're gratified as to where they've come out both on the retiree side and on the corporate side.
We think we're exceptionally well positioned but we want to be really clear that the big impacts are going to be in '14 and beyond.
And we'll see some in '13 in the fourth quarter but really the major impacts are going to come there which are going to be very important to the business overall but we want to put them in context.
It's -- this is an area in the context of a much bigger business.
Research Division</strong> What's -- given you called it out in the press release I guess I'm surprised to hear you characterize that as marginal for 4Q.
Well what we wanted to highlight in the press release really more than anything else is we launched the first-ever corporate exchange.
So it's never been done before.
It's 100 000 lives sort of enrollees on it with their dependents.
And literally it's been something that's been talked about for quite some time by multiple competitors and even by our government in the world of exchanges.
And Aon Hewitt our colleagues in Aon Hewitt were literally for the first time ever were able to actually pull that off.
So we actually aligned markets which was a challenge to do.
We aligned clients.
We actually pulled together this exchange multi-carrier exchange and actually proved the concept to really the rest of corporate America that it could be done.
As a result of that by the way you've seen many of our competitors all jump on board everybody talking about their own corporate exchange now and we now have a pipeline of companies who are interested in the corporate exchange which are very very substantial.
So that's why we called it out.
We think actually it's a very -- it's a fundamental crossroad that we were able to get through in a various positive way but we also don't want to overstep with the impact it's going to have in the near term.
Long term substantial.
The near term less so.
The next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking to follow up on Risk Solutions.
If -- I'm sort of backing into this if HR Solutions earnings growth is going to be mid-single digits in 2013 it seems to -- that for Aon to kind of hit expectations Risk Solutions earnings growth in 2013 will need to be probably 10% or maybe even a little higher.
And I mean I know you haven't really wanted to drill into that level of detail but it would really be helpful for us in terms of understanding expectations for the rest of the year.
Jay we appreciate that it would be helpful for you.
And obviously it would be even more helpful if we gave guidance but we really don't do that.
And the reason we have given specific sort of information around HR Solutions is we have been in an investment year.
We did have some unfavorable revenue mix shift during the course of '12 and therefore we wanted to be specific both around the magnitude of that growth in '13 and the patterning of it.
What I would say is if you think about 2013 we expect Risk Solutions operating margin expansion we expect HR Solutions operating margin expansion we expect share count to decline.
And there are some other miscellaneous items interest expense to be lower and minority interest to be lower as we've guided.
And your point is correct though if you think about sort of we alluded this before where our businesses are as they evolve.
And Risk Solutions including ARS and Aon Benfield are at a -- are literally a few more years along than we are on Aon Hewitt so you can certainly expect from a growth standpoint as the investments kick in in a way we believe and we think in '12 we've proven they will it gives us a substantial operating leverage in '13.
And that's we think you're going to see on the Risk Solutions side.
And if you can imagine this conversation we'll have exactly the same one a year from now 1.5 years 2 years from now on the Aon Hewitt side.
But right now Risk Solutions is a little ahead from a growth standpoint operating income growth standpoint than Aon Hewitt.
and that's -- you're exactly right in terms of sort of how the math is going to come together.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a real detail question for Christa.
The share dilution should we be using 11 million going forward? Or is that sensitive to other factors besides the share price obviously? So for Q4 obviously we finished actual shares outstanding at 310.9 million or 11.5 million dilutive share equivalents.
So that means you're dilutive share count start point for 1/1/2013 is 322.4 million.
And as you think about sort of going forward 2013 we issue about 5 million to 6 million shares a year.
And then obviously you should think about what sort of share buyback you plug in there's sort of the input variables.
The next question is from Mike Zaremski from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping to revisit GRIP because frankly I feel investors have been really unable to measure the impact the initiative is having.
So I guess investment in GRIP was cited as having a negative impact in Risk Solutions within the slide deck.
If there's a way to quantify that that would be helpful.
And related I know you've talked about GRIP increasing the yield per dollar of premium placed.
So how could we translate that into how it's impacted the margin how you expect that to trend going forward? So if you step back and think about what GRIP is about and what it enables us to do so because we can -- we're able to now track the premium placement across our overall network with roughly $80 billion of ground [ph] premium we can look at we're actually able to have conversations with insurance partners around how and where they want to apply capital and in different places around our network and around the world.
And that's actually quite advantageous for our clients first and foremost and most important but also for the insurance carriers.
And in that context we have been literally able to offer opportunities contracts to insurance carriers and literally they've come online and actually been able to improve their performance and strengthen what we actually give to clients.
So fundamentally that's one area that GRIP allows us to attack in a way that really we don't think very few if anyone out there can do.
And in that context that's literally what the investment in '12 was about.
It was literally how we rolled that on brought people on around that completed the technology pieces around that and really really advanced and ramped up the expense.
That's why it had a negative impact on margin.
But if we invested all that in GRIP in '12 you have to imagine we've got some revenue too which is why we literally were able to invest a huge amount in '12 and keep margins flat/up a little bit for the year.
So if you think about sort of how that's going to evolve in '13 that investment starts to ramp down a bit as we've got that in place and the proven revenue against that which we now have seen actually comes to the fore.
And that's why we believe there's real operating leverage we didn't have before in '13 and '14 that actually emerge out of these investments over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> And so how can we size up the rev? Does it produce $20 million $50 million $80 million of revenue like any numbers behind the initiative? So from our view we think one of the advantages -- we know one of the advantages we have that's really unique is our ability to understand and apply data in a way that changes carrier performance and actions and benefits our clients.
That is a fundamental substantial competitive advantage.
So we're not going to quantify the GRIP outcome.
We're not going to quantify the investments.
We think they'll both be substantial.
The thing we'd ask you to look at and come back to is Brokerage margin.
So flat out Risk Solutions Brokerage margin really is the metric that we think at the end of the day is your '13 measure around do we have the operating leverage.
From our standpoint this story around Aon has not changed over the last 5 6 years.
Exact same strategy exact same progression.
We drove a lot of coordination around expense and improved margin as Christa described 300 400 basis points over the last few years 500 basis points since '05.
And by the way we now shifted and say we've got to invest to literally build capability to take the next step.
We've now done that over the last couple of years.
We think we've proven that in '12 and for ourselves in terms of what the economic leverage is and we think you'll see that going forward.
But the play side I'd ask you to look as a proof point the only proof point is going to be Risk Brokerage margin which we think is a very compelling one for you guys.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly Christa in regards to the tax rate guidance of 26% next -- this year I think that's flat with 2012.
So why shouldn't that rate go lower given the re-domicile benefits? And I believe for example the U.K.
corporate tax rate will continue to fall in 2013 2014? Yes.
So it's not about the U.K.
and what we would say is our estimate at this point in time is 26%.
We have said that we would achieve benefits of approximately 500 -- or more than 500 basis points over the long term.
And it's not going to be sort of neatly patterned.
And as we make progress and complete activities we will update you in future periods.
Research Division</strong> But the U.K.
matters because you do generate 15% plus of your revenues in the U.K.
right? It actually doesn't have an impact on our global effective tax rate.
I will now turn the call back over to Greg Case.
Terrific.
Just wanted to say to everybody thank you very much for participating we appreciate it and look forward to the next call.
Thanks very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 (sic) [Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995].
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our first quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
And we note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is overall organic growth performance; and third is continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 4 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the first quarter organic revenue growth was 2% overall driven by strong growth in Retail Brokerage.
Operating margin was essentially flat as a significant increase in Risk Solutions margin was offset by a decline in HR Solutions and the unallocated section.
EPS increased 13% to $1.11 reflecting both solid operating performance and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow increased $80 million in our seasonally weakest quarter driven by strong working capital performance.
Overall a solid start to the year as we strengthen our industry-leading platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 3% compared to 4% in the prior year quarter with growth across every major business.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates more than 90% on average our record level of performance highlighting strong client satisfaction in Retail Brokerage; new business generation of approximately $240 million across our Retail business with double-digit new business growth in many markets globally across the Americas Asia and Pacific regions; investments in new product and service capabilities with the rollout of GRIP and Aon Broking globally; and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 8 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 6% compared to 4% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting a steady pace of change over the last 12 months.
We saw solid growth across all regions including Latin America U.S.
Retail and Canada.
In U.S.
Retail we delivered solid growth driven by double-digit new business growth including growth in property/casualty health and benefits construction and Affinity as well as strong management of the renewal book portfolio with improved retention and rollover rates.
In international organic revenue growth increased 3% compared to 4% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions and softer pricing in most regions across Europe.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets New Zealand and many markets across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as Korea Philippines and Singapore.
In the U.K.
and continental Europe macroeconomic conditions remained fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across this region we saw strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio delivered modest growth.
Overall a solid performance against economic and market headwinds.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 1% compared to 5% in the prior year quarter.
As we noted last quarter record capacity continues to be available to meet demand and cedents are retaining more risk driving an unfavorable market impact in the quarter.
Results reflect growth in our capital markets advisory and transaction business as well as facultative placements.
In treaty as mentioned before net new business won was positive for the eighth consecutive quarter.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's value proposition for clients while strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Finally we would observe that absent an event in the industry macro factors will continue to be a headwind in 2013.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth was 1% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter.
We saw modest organic growth across both Consulting and Outsourcing despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in continental Europe.
Underlying performance also reflects growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as healthcare exchanges investment consulting pension and risk management consulting and HR BPO.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as healthcare reform healthcare costs and the associated financial risk continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for a global benefit solution that supports their global organizations delivered at the local level managing and transferring risk across pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are just beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 1% compared to 1% in the prior year quarter.
Underlying results reflect growth in communications consulting and strong demand across our retirement businesses for investment consulting pension administration services and talent rewards.
And despite continued pressure on discretionary services and overall economic weakness in continental Europe for the full year we continue to expect low- to mid-single-digit organic growth across the Consulting Services business.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 1% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter.
Organic growth reflects net new client wins and demand for HR BPO healthcare exchanges and discretionary services partially offset by a modest decline in benefits administration.
As we noted last quarter we continue to make progress in our healthcare exchanges and the pipeline for growth during the fourth quarter of 2013 enrollment period continues to grow.
If you think about the corporate exchange the progress of the team has been a truly outstanding accomplishment from concept in 2011 to launch last quarter of the industry's only active corporate exchange; enrollment of roughly 100 000 employees plus eligible dependents; and all participating clients are referenceable with representation for both existing and new clients on the exchange.
Great progress from the team in healthcare exchange area reflecting the strength of our industry-leading platform across employee benefits design brokerage and administration.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the Revenue Engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have roughly 1.6 million trades more than $83 billion of bound premium and a growing client list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and service capabilities.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
A great example of this is a sidecar facility agreement we announced with Berkshire Hathaway providing clients efficient access to AA+-rated capacity for eligible business placed by Aon Risk Solutions.
Clients are expressing considerable interest in this facility especially in traditionally capacity-challenged sectors as a way to augment capacity for products within those sectors.
We're also investing in continued alignment of our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
And we continue substantial investment in further development of data and analytics capabilities at Aon Benfield to strengthen already industry-leading client servicing capability.
And finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capacity to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia in specialty sectors and in our GRIP solutions business.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position in healthcare exchanges both in retiree and active markets.
Healthcare exchanges enable clients to begin the shift of their participants to a market-based defined contribution model for healthcare while addressing unsustainable healthcare cost increases and decreasing population health.
While already a growing leader in the retiree market we launched the industry's first and only fully insured multi-carrier corporate exchange in Q4 and will be focused on driving greater scale in 2013 and improved returns in 2014.
We're also expanding in high-growth areas for both current clients and new markets.
Innovative solutions to de-risk pension plans are in high demand with our existing retirement client base.
And our delegated pension solutions are opening relationships in new markets.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions.
And finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent capabilities across Asia and emerging markets.
Overall we've proved the concept for these major investments in 2012 and we're on plan to drive greater scale and increased operating leverage in 2013.
In summary we delivered organic revenue growth across both Risk and HR Solutions continued to ramp up significant strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth and operating leverage delivered double-digit earnings and strong free cash flow growth.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our performance reflects a solid start to the year with double-digit earnings growth.
We continue to position Aon for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility as highlighted by the repurchase of $300 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter as highlighted on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 13% to $1.11 per share for the first quarter compared to $0.98 in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect the strong performance in our Risk Solutions segment a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management in the quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 13 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization restructuring charges and redomicile costs primarily for legal and advisory fees to complete the transaction.
Foreign currency translation had a $0.02 favorable impact on EPS in the quarter.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect no material translation impact to EPS in the second quarter of 2013.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic growth was 3%.
Operating margin increased 110 basis points to 22.5% and operating income increased 9% versus the prior year quarter.
Organic growth restructuring savings and a 40-basis-point favorable impact from foreign currency translation more than offset a minus 20-basis-point unfavorable impact from a significant decline in investment income due to lower short-term interest rates globally.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs' key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
Associated with the transfer of the Health and Benefits business at Jan 1 2012 an estimated $52 million of restructuring savings under the Aon Hewitt program will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $45 million of the $52 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program including an estimated $5 million of incremental savings in the first quarter.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 14 of the press release.
In the first quarter we delivered strong operating performance in Risk Solutions despite continued economic uncertainty in Europe and an unfavorable impact from decline in investment income placing us firmly on track for margin improvement for the full year and continued progress towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 1% operating margin decreased 220 basis points to 14.3% and operating income decreased 13% compared to the prior year quarter.
An unfavorable impact from legacy litigation and the timing of certain expenses of $10 million or minus 100 basis points continued investment in long-term growth opportunities and an unfavorable revenue mix shift more than offset organic revenue and incremental restructuring savings in the quarter.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program we incurred $26 million of charges in the quarter.
Cumulative savings related to the formal restructuring program in the first quarter are estimated at $69 million compared to $48 million in the prior year quarter of which approximately $5 million of the incremental savings were achieved in the Risk segment.
Excluding the $10 million of legacy litigation and the timing of certain expenses that negatively impacted the quarter our results are exactly in line with expectations and guidance previously provided for the HR Solutions business.
As we noted in the previous quarter we provided commentary regarding the outlook for the HR segment in 2013 and that outlook is unchanged.
We expect to number one deliver continued organic growth; number two drive greater scale from the investments made in 2012; number three deliver additional savings related to the restructuring program; number four deliver performance down in the first half and up in the second half resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth and margin expansion for the year.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses were $41 million including certain expenses related to the company's redomicile to the U.K.
Interest income decreased $2 million to $1 million due to lower average interest rates and lower average cash balances; interest expense decreased $7 million to $52 million due to a decline in the average rate and the total amount of debt outstanding during the quarter; other income of $9 million includes a net gain due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies and net gains related to certain long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $55 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations decreased to 26.1% in the first quarter compared to 28% in the prior year quarter due primarily to changes in geographic distribution of income.
We currently anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 26% in 2013.
Minority interest was $11 million similar to the prior year quarter.
Based on performance we expect minority interest to be approximately $11 million per quarter going forward.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to $320 million -- sorry 320 million in the first quarter compared to 336.6 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to our share repurchase program.
The company repurchased 5 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $300 million in the first quarter and has approximately $3.7 billion of remaining authorization.
Actual shares outstanding on March 31 was 309 million and there are approximately 10 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q2 2013 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 319 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At March 31 cash and short-term investments was $760 million and total debt outstanding was $4.6 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital was 37.6% at March 31 compared to 34.9% at December 31.
The increase is primarily driven by the timing for certain long-term debt placements between the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
Cash flow from operations increased by $69 million to $54 million in the first quarter compared to a use of $15 million in the prior year quarter.
The first quarter is historically our seasonally weakest quarter from a cash flow perspective due primarily to incentive compensation payouts.
Significantly improved working capital performance more than offset a $106 million increase in cash taxes and a 40 -- sorry an $86 million increase in cash contributions to the major pension plans in the first quarter.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 93% or $80 million reflecting a significant increase in cash flow from operations and an $11 million decline in CapEx.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
As you can see from this chart based on current assumptions we expect free cash flow to increase by over $500 million over the next 5 years simply due to a reduction in cash used in pensions and restructuring.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline $90 million to $548 million in 2013 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were $143 million in 2012.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $26 million to approximately $117 million in 2013 before declining further each year thereafter.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash decline we expect our strong free cash flow to continue to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
In 2012 we took significant steps to unlock that value for shareholders by increasing our strategic position and financial flexibility with the redomicile to the U.K.
The company completed its change of jurisdiction of incorporation on April 2 2012 and we believe the transaction will help drive shareholder value through number one greater global access to expected increases in future free cash flow; number two an increase in future cash flows through a significant reduction in our global tax rate over the long term more than what we've done over the last 5 years which was approximately 500 basis points; number three enabled us to access $300 million of excess capital held internationally on our balance sheet during 2012.
In summary we delivered double-digit earnings and strong free cash flow growth and are firmly on track to deliver improved performance in 2013.
While we're investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we're focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute to substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years: first continued growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term targets; second declining uses of cash primarily for pension and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate resulting from our redomicile to the U.K.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and increased financial flexibility we have positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Our first question comes from Adam Klauber William Blair.
Research Division</strong> In the Consulting segment it sounded like Europe was somewhat weak.
What was the growth in the -- just the U.S.? We don't talk overall Adam sort of a specific region but as we would describe is net-net expectations for the year continue to be exactly where they were as we left off last year kind of low mid-single digits across the board for the year.
U.S.
was stronger than Europe for obvious reasons when you think about discretionary spend and how clients are reacting under the current situations they're in.
But the underlying programs we've put in place to build client retention and obtain new clients strong in the U.S.
strong in Europe and obviously the headwinds are a bit stronger in Europe than the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as the healthcare exchange you mentioned that the pipeline for new potential clients is looking good.
After you signed up several large clients at the end of the year did that really raise perception I guess number one? And number two as we think about the year-end 2013 enrollment season any -- I know you can't set a number on it but is it possible to sign up materially more clients than you did at the end of 2012? Yes if you step back and think about the exchanges overall remember we've got a retiree exchange.
Navigators has actually been in place and is working very very well with a pipeline that's growing.
You're referring to the corporate exchange and you're exactly right.
We were the first to put a multi-carrier exchange in place and actually bring it live.
And we brought it live with clients in the last renewal period.
And as you just described having done that successfully all those clients are referenceable very positive reaction.
As you might expect with a proven concept that has tremendous benefits for companies and even for employees over time you're getting a lot more demand in the context than we saw last year.
Exactly what we expected.
Let's say from our standpoint what we want to do is continue to grow and build out that -- the exchanges on the corporate side.
The team's done a terrific job in doing that.
We've got a very robust pipeline going into this renewal season and we expect to continue to see that grow and see the return from that investment.
So from our standpoint it's going exactly as we had expected with probably even a little more robust demand than we thought.
And certainly as you look at the competitive environment you're seeing a lot of other folks think about this space as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question on HR Solutions margin.
Clearly first quarter is a slower seasonal quarter and you had some expenses.
Without putting a number on it do you think the margin goes up from 1Q from here? Yes we do.
What we would say is it's going to improve sequentially each quarter during the year.
And as we gave guidance we still think we're exactly on track for mid-single-digit operating improvements for 2013 down in the first half and up in the second half.
And due to the seasonality you described you're exactly right that Q4 will be seasonally higher than it has been historically primarily due to healthcare exchanges.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Brian Meredith UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple quick questions here for you.
First Christa on the guidance in the HR Solutions business for income for the year did that include the $10 million of litigation or should we strip that out when we're thinking about growth for the year? No it's exactly in line with what we said at the end of Q4 Brian so we do think we're going to get the $10 million back.
Research Division</strong> So you'll get the $10 million back also.
Okay great.
Second question Greg more for you.
On this Berkshire deal that you all did.
I guess the question I have there is what has the Lloyd's market kind of reaction been from your perspective? And is there any risk kind of from a revenue perspective perhaps Reinsurance or something where some of the Lloyd's syndicates may not be too happy about it? Yes Brian as we've looked at this this really is a client solution first and foremost.
It's a client solution as we've described it that brings AA+ rated capacity into the market in a way it's never been brought into the market before.
I would also say as I know you know RIMS is just concluding now on the West Coast and the client reaction from the announcement has actually been quite positive.
If you think about it if you're a client in an area of constrained capital this is now another area of capacity that just wasn't there before.
As we've described so it's truly a focus on kind of client need and client benefit.
As we've also talked with Lloyd's about is currently is linked to Lloyd's.
So it really we think will actually provide some positive momentum into the Lloyd's marketplace overall and we're going to continue to discuss it with them.
Lloyd's is obviously a very important partner and we're going to continue to work with our partners to serve our clients.
But at its coal face [ph] this is truly a client-focused effort and it's beginning to play out exactly like that.
Next question is Meyer Shields KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg you've mentioned the client interest in the acceptance of the Berkshire deal.
Is there going to be any negative impact on Reinsurance revenues from let's say other Lloyd's participants that feel like they're getting squeezed out? Well listen again back to -- here our focus really is on the client-serving capability of this.
And by the way Lloyd's is also a very client service-focused partner as well in the context of what we do.
So from our standpoint we see this as a net positive overall.
We're obviously in active conversations as we are with Lloyd's.
We're roughly 22% 23% of Lloyd's business overall so I think probably the single largest partner with Lloyd's.
So it's a very very important partner.
But in the context of that we think this initiative is going to be very -- it has already been extremely client-friendly and beneficial.
And in that context it really reflects the strength of our data and analytics and our approach to the overall market that we can bring to bear on behalf of clients that others haven't been able to do.
So that's how we've looked at it that's how it's playing out and we're going to keep focused on client benefit.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And Christa you mentioned that unallocated expenses were high in the quarter because of the redomicile.
Is that a run rate or this just a set of expenses associated with the move that should wind down pretty quickly? No it is going to be run rate so we've now reforecasted the unallocated expenses to be $45 million a quarter going forward.
Next question is Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
The first is the organic growth in the HR Solutions business really fell pretty significantly from the fourth quarter which may have been overstated.
And I'm wondering if -- what the change was between the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
So Jay as we -- if you step back and think about the year overall don't overplay in any single quarter too much our view is exactly as we left off in the fourth quarter of last year.
And really it's true for top line and bottom line.
We think it's going to be mid-single digits for the year across -- from a growth standpoint both in the Consulting side and in the Outsourcing side.
We saw a little more pressure than expected in the first quarter.
There are -- there's a couple things that were timing a couple things that were sort of client discretionary pressure in Europe as we described before.
But the takeaway we want you to have from this call is that we really expect low-single digits for the year overall and that's fully online.
And as Christa described as well we expect the same on the operating income growth side too low-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the timing so when you have a timing issue you're losing revenue either from future quarters so it will come in future quarters or you earned it earlier.
How does the timing work here? Is this stuff that will come in later in the year that you didn't see in the first quarter? Yes it's a little bit of stuff that will come in later as we described before but it's also a little bit more on the seasonality side as we've pushed on the healthcare exchanges and those are going to be more of a fourth quarter event than they are a first quarter event.
But net-net as we look at the years as I said we expect low single-digit growth on the top line both on the Consulting side and the Outsourcing side and that hasn't changed at all.
Next question is Greg Locraft Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just again to sit on the European slowdown and the impact in HR.
If I go back to my notes in the second quarter of last year you all mentioned that the first quarter is seasonally the most important quarter for Europe.
What I'm wondering is is was that commentary based on the overall corporation was it an HR Solutions comment or was it a risk management comment? No the -- as you think about the patterning of revenue across Aon this is really what you're describing is truly focused on Risk and not on HR Solutions.
So if you think about our Risk business overall the first quarter is very important from a European standpoint.
The fourth quarter is very important from an Americas and a U.S.
Retail standpoint.
So that's how the Risk business plays out.
So that commentary was directly focused on Risk and not HR Solutions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then I guess just a follow-up then.
The organic and the international division of Risk actually was fine.
I'm assuming Europe is sitting in there.
And so therefore there's no slowdown there.
You sort of hit it seasonally well.
I'm sort of scratching my head as to why the miss out of Europe in HR Solutions but I'm also appreciating that maybe it wasn't a miss relative to what you guys thought you were going to do this year anyway because the guidance remains the same.
Yes and if -- you're exactly right.
If you parse the two stay on risk for a second 3% we feel good about across international always like it to be stronger.
International also includes Asia and Pacific.
Those are particularly strong.
I want to be clear there is real headwind in Europe.
Our colleagues are doing a great job fighting through that with very very strong positions we have in the marketplace managing the renewal book.
So there's real pressure there.
There's certainly less pricing benefit if any in that theater.
So there's real pressure there and our colleagues have done a good job sort of overcoming that to kind of get to the 3% outcome.
And as I said before certainly positively impacted by Asia and Pacific.
And then as we've said on HR Solutions we are exactly as we expect to be for the year mid-single-digit growth across the board on Consulting and Outsourcing.
A little more pressure than we thought in the first quarter but it'll play out the same over time.
Next question is Mike Nannizzi Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg could you talk a little bit more about the trends that you're seeing in the domestic risk book and in particular kind of on the renewals side? What do you think is contributing other than some exclusive actions you're taking? What is contributing to the fact that renewals are -- the profile of the renewal book is improving? And I have just one follow-up.
So this really starts back to the investments we've made over a period of time which we're rolling out globally started in the U.S.
and are now rolling out around the world.
And as we have talked over the last number of quarters we've invested heavily to put those in place.
By the way in the context of doing that it's cost us some margin.
And as those have come to fruition we feel like we're going to get operating leverage and that's really what you're starting to see.
And that shows up in areas like Client Promise that we've rolled out and the Revenue Engine also areas as we've rolled out GRIP in the U.S.
and now around the world.
So these are fundamental investments that we believe are strengthening the business and strengthening our ability to both bring new clients in but also improve the value proposition to existing clients.
And in doing so you're going to increase retention and increase rollover.
And that's really what we're seeing in the U.S.
and we anticipate seeing around the world.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell me just in terms of like your relationship with clients and we've had a couple years of rate gains here are you able to secure better rates for your clients than the market overall? And is that a factor as people become a little bit -- maybe a little bit more bristled about further rate gains? Is that a relevant dynamic? Yes what I would say is so against -- we're not going to speak to specific competitors.
But Aon is fundamentally built and has made what we believe to be unprecedented investment in content and capability that enable us to actually understand the market measure risk and then bring the market to bear on behalf of our clients respectfully better than anyone else in the world.
That's really the focus of the firm.
You think about Aon Benfield.
Aon Benfield spends in excess of $120 million a year on content and capability to help clients understand how to understand measure risk reduce risk change volatility reduce volatility.
And in that regard these are truly industry-leading investments.
The purpose of these investments is to help drive better value for clients and that shows up in multiple ways terms conditions price et cetera.
And the same is true on the Retail side when you think about what we've done with the Global Risk Insight Platform.
The Risk Insight platform literally is the single biggest database of risk information in the world.
And as we mine that on behalf of our clients and better match carrier capital to client needs we believe they benefit substantially.
And if clients understand value they'll pay for value.
And that's what we're starting to see.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up if I could for Christa.
I was trying to understand just the math on HR operating income.
Let me know if this is wrong but I think with kind of low-single-digit growth on the organic side it would seem like you would need a couple hundred basis points of improvement year-over-year in the back half of the year to hit that mid-single-digit operating income increase year-over-year.
Is that right or -- and if so is that kind of what you're expecting? Yes we are.
And what we would say is as we think about the year we originally gave guidance to say that we would be down in the first half and up in the second half.
We still believe that's right.
And in terms of operating income patterning it's really essentially down in Q1 essentially flat in Q2 and 3 and up in Q4.
And the up in Q4 is substantial as you described really driven by seasonality healthcare exchanges and restructuring savings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's further back-loaded.
So it's not really not back half it's really fourth quarter? Yes it's mostly fourth quarter that's right.
Really primarily driven by the seasonality because the healthcare exchange investment and the revenue from healthcare exchange is really just showing up in Q4 makes Q4 sort of much more seasonally acute than it's previously been.
Last question is Mike Zaremski Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Christa could you update us on the client invoicing issue that took place last year and whether we should still expect a $350 million benefit to free cash flow this year? And I had a follow-up.
Yes we do expect to receive that benefit this year.
We are continuing to make progress every quarter.
And so we feel good about that progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in regards to the Aon Hewitt restructuring plan the 2012 10-K cites expected personnel reductions of 2 000.
I noticed that number was up from 1 500 to 1 800 in the prior guidance or 10-K.
So should the increased reduction result in eventual -- eventually additional cost saves? Look as we continue to implement the plans we continue to update the numbers.
And you see the numbers move slightly as we update the most accurate numbers in the press release as you can see and we'll have them in the Q this quarter.
Overall we are on track to receive the $355 million of savings.
So exactly where they come from does shift slightly between workforce reduction and leases on a quarterly basis as we complete the activities.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
Thanks.
I want to thank everybody for being part of the call this morning.
We appreciate your interest in Aon and look forward to the conversation next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our second quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
If anyone has any objection you may disconnect your line at this time.
Now it is my pleasure to turn your call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
And we note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is overall organic growth performance; and third continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 4 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the second quarter organic revenue growth was 3% overall driven by strong growth in Consulting and Retail Brokerage.
Operating margin was essentially flat as an increase in Risk Solutions margin was offset by a decline in HR Solutions and the unallocated section.
EPS increased 9% to $1.11 reflecting effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow increased 20% driven by strong working capital performance.
Overall a solid performance against our key metrics as we strengthen our industry-leading platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 3% with growth across every major business.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage.
With management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average a record level of performance highlighting strong client satisfaction in Retail Brokerage; new business generation of approximately $270 million across our Retail business with double-digit new business growth in many markets globally across the Americas Asia and Pacific regions; investments in new product and service capabilities with the growth of GRIP and Aon Broking globally delivering increased operating leverage; and in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 9 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 5%.
Exposures are relatively stable the impact from pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting a steady pace of increase over the last 12 months.
We saw solid growth across all regions including Latin America U.S.
Retail and Canada.
In U.S.
Retail we delivered solid growth driven by strong new business growth including growth in property/casualty Health and Benefits and Affinity as well as strong management of renewal book portfolio with record levels of retention.
In international organic revenue growth was 3%.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average with firmer pricing in cat-exposed regions and softer pricing in most regions across Europe.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets New Zealand and many regions across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as China Philippines and Taiwan.
In the U.K.
and continental Europe macroeconomic conditions remained fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across this region we saw solid new business growth strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio delivered modest growth.
Overall a solid performance against economic and market headwinds.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 2%.
As we've noted over the last few quarters record capacity continues to be available to meet demand.
And cedents are retaining more risk driving unfavorable market impact in the quarter.
Absent an event in the industry macro factors will continue to be a headwind in 2013.
Against those headwinds results reflect modest growth across all businesses.
In treaty as mentioned before net new business won was positive for the ninth consecutive quarter.
And we did deliver solid growth in our industry-leading capital markets transactions and advisory business.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's unmatched level of investment and long-term value proposition for clients while strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth was 2%.
We saw strong growth in Consulting Services despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in continental Europe.
Underlying performance also reflects growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as health care exchanges investment consulting pension and risk management consulting and HR BPO.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding the market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risks continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at a local level; managing and transferring risk across pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development and engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 6% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter.
Underlying results reflect solid growth across our retirement businesses for investment consulting and pension administrative services as well as communications consulting.
Despite weak demand for discretionary services and overall economic weakness in continental Europe for the full year we continue to expect low- to mid-single-digit organic growth across the Consulting Services business.
In Outsourcing organic revenue was flat.
Organic growth reflects net new client wins and demand for HR BPO health care exchanges and discretionary services partially offset by a modest decline in benefits administration.
As we noted last quarter we continue to make great progress in our health care exchanges and interest in the Aon Hewitt corporate exchange continues to be particularly strong.
In Q2 we had excellent sales which will drive strong growth in enrollments for 2014.
And the client base represents a broad range of both new logos and existing clients across a broad range of industries.
If you think about the corporate exchange the progress of the team has been truly an outstanding accomplishment.
We went from concept in 2011 to active enrollment of the industry's only active multi-carrier corporate exchange for large employers.
Enrollment of roughly 100 000 employees plus eligible dependents.
All participating clients are referenceable with representation from both existing clients and new logos.
Great progress from the team in serving existing clients on the exchange and building the pipeline reflecting the strength of our industry-leading platform across employee benefits design brokerage and administration.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership to drive greater productivity and efficiency with the rollout of the Revenue Engine internationally as well as the rollout of Client Promise which is driving greater retention and rollover rates.
We continue to invest in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information.
We now have roughly 1.7 million trades more than $88 billion of bound premium and a growing list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and service capabilities.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
A great example of this among many is our structured portfolio solutions effort in Health and Benefits.
Another example is the continued alignment of our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
Further we have substantial investment in the development of data and analytics capabilities at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading client-serving capability.
Finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients as well as adding key talent across Asia in specialty sectors and in our GRIP solutions business.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position in health care exchanges.
Health care exchanges enable clients to begin transitioning their participants to a market-based defined contribution model for health care that gives participants more choice while addressing unsustainable health care cost increases and decreasing population health.
As a growing leader in the private health care exchange market for post-65 retirees and the leader in the private exchange market for active employees we're focused on driving greater scale in 2013 and improved returns in 2014.
We're expanding in high-growth areas for our current clients and new markets.
Innovative solutions to de-risk pension plans are in high demand with our existing retirement client base.
Our delegated pension solutions are opening relationships in new markets.
And finally we're providing a broader set of advisory and advocacy solutions to our clients' employees to better enable greater choice and improve decision-making on their retirement and health care options.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions.
And finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across Asia and emerging markets.
Overall we proved the concept of these major investments in 2012 and we're fully on track to deliver greater scale and increased operating leverage in 2013 and 2014.
In summary we delivered organic revenue growth across both Risk and HR Solutions continued to ramp up significant strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth and operating leverage delivered solid earnings and strong double-digit free cash flow growth.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted we continue to position Aon for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility.
Our performance in the quarter reflects continued progress against our key financial metrics with solid earnings and 20% free cash flow growth highlighted by the repurchase of $225 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 9% to $1.11 per share for the second quarter compared to $1.02 in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect the strong performance in our Risk Solutions segment a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management in the quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 of the press release include: noncash intangible asset amortization redomicile costs primarily for legal and advisory fees to complete the transaction; and restructuring charges related to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
We expect that all remaining charges for the formal restructuring programs will be complete and final in 2013.
Foreign currency translation had a $0.02 unfavorable impact on EPS in the quarter due primarily to a stronger dollar versus the Aussie dollar and Japanese yen.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a similar impact in both the third and fourth quarters.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3%.
Operating margin increased 60 basis points to 22.5% and operating income increased 5% versus the prior year quarter.
Organic growth including benefits from our investments in GRIP and Aon Broking as well as $6 million of estimated restructuring savings were partially offset by a minus 20 basis-point unfavorable impact from a decline in investment income and unfavorable foreign currency translation.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
Under the Aon Hewitt program approximately $90 million of estimated savings will be achieved in the Risk Solutions segment primarily related to workforce and lease consolidation within the Health and Benefits business that was transferred in 2012.
Approximately $51 million of the $90 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with approximately $39 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 13 of the press release.
Overall in the second quarter we delivered solid operating performance in Risk Solutions despite continued economic uncertainty in Europe an unfavorable impact from foreign currency and a decline in investment income.
For the first 6 months Risk Solutions margins were up 90 basis points placing us firmly on track for margin improvement for the full year and continued progress towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 2% operating margin decreased minus 50 basis points to 14.9% and operating income was essentially flat to the prior year quarter in line with expectations we provided at the beginning of 2013.
Overall modest growth and $15 million of incremental restructuring savings were offset by investments in long-term growth opportunities and an unfavorable revenue mix shift.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program approximately $288 million of estimated savings will be achieved in HR Solutions primarily relating to workforce and lease consolidations.
Approximately $227 million of the $288 million in cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with the remaining $61 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
Incremental savings opportunities were identified as we completed the final analysis of the Aon Hewitt program.
These savings will: number one overcome the onetime impacts in the first quarter; number two optimize our significant investments in long-term growth opportunities such as health care exchanges and investment consulting; and number three strengthen our outlook for higher operating income growth in 2014.
As discussed in the previous quarter we provided commentary regarding the outlook for the HR segment in 2013 and that outlook is unchanged as results continue to be in line with expectations.
We expect to: number one deliver continued organic growth; number two drive greater scale and improve return from the investments; number three deliver savings related to the restructuring program; number four deliver performance modestly down in the first half and up in the second half of the year resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth and margin expansion for the year.
Now let me discuss a few other line items outside of the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses were $44 million including certain expenses related to the company's redomicile.
Interest income was similar at $2 million.
Interest expense decreased $9 million due to a decline in both the average rate and the total amount of debt outstanding in the quarter.
Other income of $6 million includes a net gain due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on remeasurement of assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies and net gains related to long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $45 million per quarter of unallocated expense and $55 million per quarter of interest expense.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 26.4% in the second quarter.
The company currently expects that its full year effective tax rate for 2013 will be approximately 26%.
But the tax rate for 2013 may change depending on discrete tax adjustments and the geographic distribution of income.
The company currently expects that over time the reduction in its effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations will be greater than previously anticipated.
The actual effective tax rate in any particular period will depend on discrete tax adjustments and changes in the geographic distribution of income.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 317.1 million in the second quarter compared to 335.6 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased 3.5 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $225 million in the second quarter.
The company has $3.5 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on June 30 were 307.5 million and there are approximately 9 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q3 2013 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 316.5 million subject to share price movements share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At June 30 cash and short-term investments were $573 million and total debt outstanding was $4.4 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital was 37% at June 30 compared to 37.6% at March 31.
The decrease is primarily driven by a reduction in total debt outstanding.
Cash flow from operations increased 17% or $49 million to $333 million in the second quarter due primarily to improved working capital and a $43.5 million favorable impact from the settlement of a non-recurring onetime legal matter partially offset by a $41 million increase in cash taxes.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 20% or $45 million to $271 million in the second quarter driven by improved cash flow from operations.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
As you can see from this chart based on current assumptions we expect free cash flow to increase by over $500 million over the next 6 years based only on a reduction in cash used in pensions and restructuring.
Growth in the core business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate would generate additional free cash flow growth.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans.
We've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continued to do de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by $85 million to $463 million in 2014 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring plans.
Cash payments are anticipated to be $158 million in 2013.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we expect cash payments to decline by $83 million to approximately $75 million in 2014 before declining further each year thereafter.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash decline we expect our strong free cash flow growth to continue to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
In summary we delivered solid earnings and strong free cash flow growth and are firmly on track to deliver improved performance in 2013.
While we're investing to further strengthen our industry-leading portfolio we're focused on 3 primary areas that will each contribute to substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years: first continued growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term targets; second declining uses of cash primarily for pensions and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and increased financial flexibility we've positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you're getting good momentum on the company health care exchanges.
I realize selling season probably isn't over yet but could you guys I guess give us some idea if you had 2 clients last year how many clients or what the range of potential clients you could have this year? And if you had 100 000 lives -- just any ranges would be helpful.
Yes I'm happy to do that Adam.
As you would expect we're going to always protect our clients and this will come out over time and be clearer over time.
But this has just been for us an extraordinary selling season.
We've been very excited about it.
We had 3 clients by the way last year at 100 000-plus lives recognizing one was Aon but 2 others Sears and Darton our public information earn-on went exceptionally well and I feel very good about it.
This year we're going to have a significant number of new clients very significant multiples of new participants new logos.
You're also going to see a real mix across industries as well as we were going forward looking at.
And also more carriers who are now participating in the overall exchange.
So for us it's just really been a very positive enrollment cycle this time.
And we have a pipeline that's actually even more substantial for the coming year.
So the investment from our standpoint it has really picked up and we're quite excited about it.
And the last thing I would just say on this it's really the employee experience that's really driving this.
As we've tracked and watched how employees have engaged in the exchange over the last cycle it's really been a powerful tool to talk to future companies about -- thinking about this because not only are they able to actually control costs more effectively now and manage their health care cost situation more effectively they're also able to provide an enhanced experience for their employee which is obviously quite important as well.
So you'll see this evolve over the coming months but it's just been an exceptionally strong cycle for us and we're quite excited about this.
Research Division</strong> Okay great to hear.
On -- with the employer mandate being pushed off did that push off some of the decisions of potential clients? It really hasn't had that much impact.
Overall if anything it raises the specter and clients want more insight and advice in terms of sort of how to deal with the evolving health care world.
As we've said before the Affordable Care Act fundamentally doesn't address employee health and it doesn't address unit cost of health care.
And what the exchanges do is give companies the chance to sort of at least get a handle on how to think about that more effectively for their company.
And so for us it hasn't had a huge impact.
And as I've said before it had just been a very robust season and we expect it to continue in the next season as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally on the topic you signed a joint venture with eHealth if I understand that correctly to help with potentially temporary or lower paid employees and also potentially early retirees.
Do you think that that joint venture will have visibility at the end of this year? Or is that more of a long-term-type venture? Yes it's going to come in over the long term.
But it's just another example of -- one of the things we want to try to do is really try to communicate the opportunities on how to think about this very important choice at the company level and at the employee level and eHealth helps us do that.
And it's a great solution for clients but also for individuals as they think about trying to evaluate a very complex space.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First a quick one here.
Christa just curious why will interest expense go back up since you reduced your debt? Yes there was a onetime item in the quarter and it's also just the timing of our debt in terms of when we brought the new debt on which happened during the quarter.
And so as you sort of when you get to run rate numbers it will increase.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Greg I wonder if you could talk about what you think the impact right now on organic revenue growth is from the weak European economy? Let's assume we can go back to some kind of a normalized 3% nominal GDP how would that impact organic growth in the international as well as the HR Solutions business? Well as you -- firstly you saw Brian in the end I want to emphasize that it is uneven it has been a challenge.
But it really is -- Europe was really -- not Europe but say a series of individual countries with individual situations.
And we've got very positive we've got very strong franchises in each of those.
As you saw we had 3% growth on the Retail side in Europe outside international this quarter as well.
And roughly kind of 20% of our revenues overall if you think about it there's obviously upside as the economy strengthens over time.
But we've been able to actually weather the storm quite well and we anticipate continuing to be able to do it to the extent it exists and continues.
At its core clients need what we're providing.
They need to understand how to measure and mitigate risks.
They need to understand how to deal with these important issues around their people on retention -- or on retirements pensions and health care.
So all these issues remain fundamental and for us it's -- we believe we've got real growth opportunities that are both domestically and around the globe.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you did say in your opening comments that the weaker economy is actually having an issue on organic growth? You're absolutely right and it is.
And as you know from us before we're not going to use that as an excuse.
We're going to grow organically irrespective of that.
In terms of that to the extent they become any kind of a tailwind -- and we haven't seen it in a while obviously adds substantial positive economic impact on us.
But in the meantime clients have needs we're going to address them and we're going to grow organically irrespective of the economic situation.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just quickly lastly could you break out your comments or give a little more detail on the health care exchanges and kind of break it out between how the retirement exchange is going versus the corporate exchange? Yes both have actually progressed well.
The retirement exchange navigators have been in place a little bit longer.
Strong programs series of investments there really love the platform and really getting strong reception from companies around the world.
The newer one Brian on the corporate exchange the first-ever multi-carrier fully insured exchange with 3 companies last cycle.
Now we have many many this cycle as I've said before.
Both going very very well.
And again we are -- we love the value proposition for companies and for their individual employees.
We think it's going to have a lot of power going forward.
And we just want to be able to build it in a very incremental straightforward way that let's us really build a sustainable business long term.
And this year has really been a great step forward in that.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And this is a simplistic question.
But if all of your traditional health care clients renewed on the exchanges instead of the older systems can you talk generally about what the impact would be on revenues and margins? They would both improve.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second this is completely unrelated the capital expenditures that you provided seems to be increasing about 5% a year.
I was just hoping you could talk us through where that number comes from? Yes I mean the largest area for capital expenditures for us is IT.
And if you think about our business we're increasingly differentiating through data and analytics.
Whether that's GRIP on the Retail Brokerage side it's the incredible series of data and analytics we have in Aon Benfield where we spend over $100 million a year or it's health care exchanges or pension de-risking or investment consulting.
So there's significant investments in data and analytics across all of our businesses.
And it's a little bit less than organic growth is the way we think about CapEx growth.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the corporate health care exchanges you mentioned there were some new carriers that you put on the platform.
Have any of the major carriers decided to leave the platform because of their experience in 2013? We didn't have anybody exit and we added multiple as I said before Jay.
No one exited.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question you had mentioned the benefits administration revenues were feeling some pressure.
If you could go into more detail on what's happening in that business? Just as you think about sort of the overall business it's a competitive business and as it continues to evolve we've experienced some price compression historically.
We continue to do that although that's mitigated quite a bit of late.
And that's been a headwind for us as we face 2013 and we think about 2014 offset by the investments we're making to grow in other areas.
And that's going to mitigate that over time but that's been a headwind.
Research Division</strong> Mostly pricing pressure then? Well it's pricing but it's also -- kind of terms conditions things you're doing servicing et cetera and sort of the common apply [ph].
But overall it's been a headwind.
It's something we're mitigating against and it's as I said it has decreased but it's been a meaningful headwind which is why I wanted to call it out.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill Partners.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions not related but the first one should be easy.
You mentioned that you thought that the tax rate would be lower than expected.
Is that purely a function of the geographic location of where you think earnings will be and that's changed over time? Or is there something else there? It is exactly that Paul.
It's related to improved visibility around the geographic distribution of income and discrete tax adjustments.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So simply more earnings in lower-taxed countries? That's right.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then I wanted to ask sort of more of a philosophical question on the property/casualty brokerage side and get your perspective on it.
I'm curious about whether or not -- there's a lot of conversation here about pricing and whether or not we're seeing a deceleration in the hard market at least in North America.
And I was wondering if you think that the traditional linkages between Reinsurance and E&amp;S and some other lines that tend to lead the cycle have changed if we have more of a de-linkage between those types of markets or if we should be paying a lot of attention to what could happen to primary because of what's going on with Reinsurance? Paul as we said before I alluded to it in my comments at the beginning we look very factually on kind of what's happening on the Retail side in pricing against what is our GRIP platform $80 billion of premium.
So we're -- this is not concept this is literally looking exactly what Aon has done and has in place.
And there hasn't been that much change since the prior quarter up slightly but stabilizing.
As you highlight on the Reinsurance side more pressure and it's coming from clients increasing the amount of retention that they keep and also pressure from outside sources of capital.
We see that continuing and absent some significant event will be a headwind on the Reinsurance side.
And that's just how we see it it will evolve over time.
And we're obviously quite active in both marketplaces.
But generally the story on pricing hasn't changed much since the first quarter it's really continued at the same trends into the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question HR Solutions segments I noticed there was some commentary in the slide deck about unfavorable revenue mix shift.
Could you elaborate because I thought Consulting was the higher-margin contributor within the segment? And I guess related as well Consulting organic growth picked up and I was just curious if you think Aon is taking share there or growing at the market's organic pace? Yes.
So in terms of the unfavorable revenue mix shift it's really about getting revenue growth in areas in which we are investing.
And so if you think about the areas in which we're investing we're investing in BPO through the partnership with OmniPoint.
We're investing in health care exchanges and those are lower-margin businesses right now which we expect to get to a much higher margin over time.
But what you're seeing is substantial revenue growth in lower-margin businesses hence the unfavorable revenue mix shift.
And then I think Greg is going to take the second part of your question.
Yes on the point on share the way we think about the overall market now we've got a set of platforms that are unique.
And we're investing behind those in ways that are actually have never been done before.
So we're investing more in content capability on the risk side both Retail and in Reinsurance.
And we're doing the same obviously on the Hewitt side in Consulting and in Outsourcing.
And we think this gives us a very strong platform to develop clients.
You're seeing it in new business generation in Risk you're seeing it as well on the Consulting side now as you raised.
So it's for us it's not about just taking share it's winning for clients everyday it's doing a very systematic thoughtful approach.
It's creating new demand as well helping clients understand issues they might not have seen before and help them to address those productively.
So for us we want to just keep investing behind value propositions that are understandable and valued by clients things that they will pay for.
That will benefit our shareholders as well as our clients.
And doing it in a systematic thoughtful way.
And that's what you're seeing evolve really across the businesses on the Risk side and on the Consulting side.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Lastly in terms of our leverage levels I see the debt-to-cap up a couple of points quarter-over-quarter.
I was curious if you can refresh us on how Aon thinks about its leverage tolerance levels? And I believe the rating agencies might also be a factor and they make a number of adjustments when calculating their own ratings.
Yes.
So debt-to-capital was actually down slightly.
It's 37% at the end of Q2 whereas it was 37.6% at the end of Q1.
And that's really just because debt came down slightly during the quarter.
As we think about overall leverage levels we definitely look at the amount of our unfunded pension liability and leases to your point on how the credit rating agencies look at this.
And we're very comfortable with our leverage levels as they are today.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk a little bit about Lloyd's.
And maybe it's just coincidental this quarter but there's some chatter out there that there's some syndicates who are your clients who were disappointed with the quarter share range with Berkshire and might not want to use Aon Re as their broker next year.
And I noticed that Reinsurance volumes obviously are a little bit soft than they were a year ago.
I'm wondering if it's related and if you have a response to that rumor in the market? Yes we haven't seen that Josh at all.
In fact if you step back as we said before we've seen now 9 consecutive quarters of net new business growth on the Reinsurance side and really strong across the board in traditional as well as on the cat bond side for many of these clients.
So we've seen very very positive from that standpoint.
And I would just say on the transaction you're referring to pleased with the overall progress seen positive results for clients.
They've shown interest in really 75% to 90% of the situations depending on the line of business.
Interestingly enough by the way for the -- basically 1 of 3 orders both existing and new clients have increased their share in the London market or Lloyd's as a result of this overall joint venture.
So it's actually been positive from that standpoint.
And I would say quite the contrary to what you're I think it sounds like you're picking up -- Steve McGill and team have had very positive conversations with the senior leadership of Lloyd's and many of the syndicates around frankly how we can continue to work together to strengthen the value proposition for clients.
Because in the end that's really what this is all about how do we help clients succeed.
And in that regard I think it will actually be a catalyst to help Lloyd's really meet their Vision 2025 mission which is a very aspirational set of objectives for Lloyd's overall.
So from our standpoint we see good progress here.
Research Division</strong> And do you think there's a positive outcome for Reinsurance-buying clients? Yes absolutely.
In the end -- by the way these Reinsurance-buying clients are also the primary clients as well in terms of what we're doing.
And overall we're strengthening relationships across Lloyd's as well as which is really the 87 syndicates within Lloyd's.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And looking at -- maybe I can get some scale here of course Consulting up very strong 6%; Outsourcing revenue is flat.
And it's interesting because in the commentary you talked about doing well on -- in discretionary services but -- and the health care exchange but offset by benefits.
So when I think about the size of contribution from each of those areas HR BPO and health care quite small and benefits quite large.
I know we talked about the health care exchange is a large part of the story here but it's suggested it would be a number of years before it was a meaningful contributor to results.
Can you sort of parse the size of the opportunity now versus maybe 3 years from now to help us understand where it is in terms of the arsenal of what Aon has to offer in the future? Well basically if you think about the overall portfolio of investments that we're making they're not only in health care exchanges they're in some real wheelhouses in the investment side of the business and the Retirement side of the business on investment consulting and other areas.
So there's a whole range there's a whole portfolio of areas that we've invested heavily in that are impacting performance.
In 2013 the exchanges as we said before are going to be more like 14 and 15 from a bottom line standpoint closer to 15 but they're certainly going to impact top line overall.
And we feel very good about the progress on these investments.
And net-net I would come back to where Christa was which is if you think about what we committed to as we can here mid-single-digit growth.
And by the way absorbing all of the investments we described before on the health care exchanges and the investment side we feel very good about achieving that exact commitment mid-single-digit growth and stronger in 2014.
So that's the progress.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about benefits administration -- I'm asking about benefits administration persisting would that be a drag on that outlook? No it doesn't change the outlook at all we're essentially absorbing the outlook.
All we want to do is as we always do fully transparent call out sort of the puts and takes.
Ben admin has been a headwind.
It's diminished it's mitigating but it's been a headwind offset by other areas of the business and by the way fully absorbing across the business all the investments we're making too.
So we are absolutely where we started the year which is a mid-single-digit growth and that's what we're going to -- that's where we're going to end up.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the HR segment.
You mentioned in the last response several times mid-single-digit growth is where you're confident.
And you did show a surge in profitability in the division last year.
So there's -- what I'm wrestling with is because of the decline in op income in the first half it's a big bogey for the back half and yet you're obviously very confident.
Where is that confidence coming from? Is this because -- I mean what do you see that we can't? And is it expense management is it compensation is it other expenses is it accelerating organic? Because it implies a very big back half on the profitability line.
We patterned the year that way from the beginning and the guidance we originally gave in Q4 2012 was that we were going to deliver performance modestly down in the first half and up in the second half resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth and a margin expansion for the year.
One of the things that's driving the patterning much more towards Q4 for us is health care exchanges where revenue recognition means that when you place the policy which really happens all in Q4 you recognize the revenue entirely in Q4.
And so we do have sort of revenue patterning and therefore profitability patterning of that investment towards Q4.
We also have savings flowing through throughout the year and that continued to improve during the course of the year.
And we have improvement in our core performance.
So as Greg described we do have some headwinds in benefits administration which impacted more the first half than the second half.
And so that's improving during the course of the year.
They're really sort of the 3 big things that leads to patterning in the second half.
And all of those things will also lead to improved performance in 2014.
But that line of sight that Christa just described was the exact line of sight we described Q4 last year for the year and that's exactly what's progressed through the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> My only -- I guess my pushback is that the Outsourcing division the organics coming out of the Outsourcing are just not -- I mean you might have been sitting in the fourth quarter thinking they'd be a bit better than they are right now.
So I mean I believe you it sounds like you guys are going to hit the guidance.
It's just it seems like the revenue isn't coming in like you might've thought 6 months ago or am I wrong? Is it actually coming in exactly where you thought on the organic line when you first...
It is actually it's coming in exactly as we thought and I think one of the things we have with our Outsourcing business is very long contract terms.
And it allows us to get very good visibility to revenue and therefore profitability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last just on this.
It looks to me like the math unless the organic just is going to come in incredibly bigger just raw dollars you're going to spend less dollars year-over-year in the back half 2013 than you did in 2012.
Is that correct? In this division? It's that you get a return on the investments and in particular the revenue shows up in the fourth quarter.
And so you could describe it as less expenses you could also describe it as the revenue or the return of that investment shows up particularly in health care exchanges that's really the phenomenon that's occurring.
And yes we're getting reduced expenses through savings improving so there is some of that going on as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my apologies last on this it sounds like then Christa the fourth quarter is when we're going to get the biggest bang in the margins.
Third quarter should be better and then fourth quarter is really where we're going to see as we're modeling is that how we should be doing it? That's exactly right.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One question Greg if you could on the capital coming into the Reinsurance market can you talk a little bit about the fees that you're generating from those types of placements? And kind of what the growth has been like from a structuring perspective as you guys engage in those activities? And then and I'm also just curious generally what are the fees to you to Aon look like on a -- from a traditional reinsurer versus one of these structures? And then just lastly another carrier mentioned that they were seeing a lot of growth in the traditional market from sort of pent-up wins.
And then but the capital markets were there and opportunities were potentially coming but that was not a big net change for them so far.
I'm just curious if I could get your thoughts on those things? Well I'll try to answer this and we can come back if I'm missing anything.
Back up Aon Benfield roughly 85% treaty overall 10% fac about 5% on the investment banking or the capital market side that you were describing before.
And we really -- while you can break it out in these categories what we're really looking at is how do we help clients improve their capital efficiency? How do we actually help them think about improving return on invested capital and driving value from the standpoint of improved operating performance a stronger balance sheet or reducing their volatility.
That really is the fundamental sort of thesis behind what we do and we actually bring a range of solutions in each of these categories to actually help clients do that.
And in the context of doing that you can imagine if you can sit across the table from a client look them in the eye and tell them you can increase their return on invested capital the remuneration to Aon Benfield takes care of itself.
And that's really fundamentally how we built the business.
And it turns out we are in the #1 position in each one of these categories: #1 in treaty #1 in fac and #1 in capital markets.
And just from the standpoint of just the sort of the insurance length securities piece this is something we've been involved in for a long time.
Everyone talks about kind of data and analytics and it's kind of the nouveau for most people it's not for Aon Benfield.
We've been doing this for 10 years.
We invest over $120 million a year hard dollars and content capability.
And ILS is an example it's something that's -- we focus on and we do very very well.
If you think about all the transactions since 2010 we've been involved in about almost 50% of them 47% of them.
So 29 transactions that's 10 more transactions than #2 or #3 who happen to be investment banks.
If you think about year-to-date in 2013 I think we've done 9 deals which probably it's half of the deals.
So this is something that we're very very involved in.
It's still a modest part of overall business but something that's very very important in sort of what we do.
And we don't think necessarily about the economics one-off.
We think about it for a client when you think about the treaty complement the ILS complement and the fac complement how do we improve return on invested capital for them.
So for us it really is a broad-based complement and a suite of capabilities being brought to the table with the horsepower of data and analytics that is very unique in the industry today.
So I know that it didn't answer exactly what you asked but I really want you to understand philosophically how we think about the business and why we see the opportunity here so positive over time.
Research Division</strong> Does a growing sort of alternative capital base coming in make your position -- do you think it makes your position more relevant as kind of a market leader in that market? Well again we've got the strongest platform of anyone in the world in that category already and philosophically what we're essentially saying is to our clients "Hey there are other sources of capital that can actually help you improve your efficiency on your balance sheet." And so we're in an excellent position -- I would argue the best position to sort of help clients continue to take advantage of other sources of capital to help them improve their business.
So for us this is not about a diminished opportunity or an increased opportunity it's about a changing opportunity that we're in a very good position to take advantage of on behalf of our clients.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Christa if I could really quickly -- it looked like there are some changes to the restructuring math in that last slide of the presentation before the appendix.
It looks like restructuring spend a little bit higher and then but when I did the math on the -- increase is about 90-ish million but the increase in total operating cash over cumulative operating cash was just about $7 million.
So I was just trying to square those two? Yes.
So we have increased savings by $100 million through the end of 2014.
We've increased the total cost by -- and actually I think what you're seeing is just the timing of the actual cash payout that's changed slightly.
So you've seen the cash payout increase slightly in 2013 and it's flowing through future years as well.
Research Division</strong> Because when I just -- and maybe this is wrong I just added up all of the restructuring cash and that was about $100 million -- $90 million more through 2018.
But the change in the cash -- the incoming cash the free cash flow cumulative went from $513 million to $506 million -- I'm not exactly sure what it was but I was just trying to -- I would think that more spending would lead to the more savings down the road.
Yes.
So this is just -- the cash is just a charge and the savings are showing up in the P&amp;L.
So it's actually sort of slightly -- so you're seeing the restructuring cash is really related to the charge or the expense and it's not netting the savings here on Page 11.
Our last question comes from Charles Sebaski with BMO.
Two questions.
One I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the organic growth in the Brokerage or the Risk services segment.
How much is coming from rate versus how much is coming from new client activity? So we've said before overall rates had a modestly positive impact across our overall book very low-single digits very low.
And roughly the same story as we had in the first quarter so it's a very modest impact.
And substantial impact as we said before on the retention renewal and new business.
I mean the retention rates we've been able to achieve are truly -- they've been extraordinary record highs and the team's done an exceptionally strong job there as well as new business generation with $270 million in new business across the firm in this quarter.
Just a very strong performance up substantially from the same quarter last year.
That's really been the driver.
I know you don't disclose specifically but how does conceptually Aon GRIP and Broking playing into that new business? And any kind of color on how does that affect that business and just towards of opening doors or anything else? Well at the end of the day what we've essentially said is what we're trying to do with Aon Broking -- GRIP fits into that context is essentially it's really about yield on per dollar of premium placed across the system.
So as we think about sort of the -- each dollar that we're able to place what is our remuneration against that.
And Aon Broking in particular helps us sort of understand the yield across the book and do things that by the way help strengthen the value proposition for clients.
And in doing so we get increased yield.
That really is the story of GRIP as well which is really helping carriers match capital with client need very very effectively around world.
And so in essence that -- when you put all that together that actually increases yield per dollar of premium placed.
So that really is how it shows up in the P&amp;L.
Okay.
Christa one follow-up I think for you on a balance sheet question.
When I'm thinking about the CapEx spend and you guys been -- you have a couple maybe $200 million of CapEx or at least a decent portion of your CapEx going into IT spend.
Where is that showing up on the balance sheet? Because if I look at intangible assets it sort of seems that it's amortizing off and sort of the listed $99 million of intangible amortization but I don't see -- I would expect it I guess to be going up as you're in turn reinvesting in IT.
Yes it's showing up in the balance sheet in other assets.
Okay.
So all the new investment shows up in other assets then? Right pretty much.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want to say to everyone thank you very much for participating and we look forward to the discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that the call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our third quarter results as well as have been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
I would note that there are slides available on our website so you could follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
And third is continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the 4 metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: to grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the third quarter organic revenue growth was 3% overall driven by strong growth across Risk Solutions.
Operating margin increased 10 basis points as an increase in Risk Solutions margin was partially offset by a decline in HR Solutions.
EPS increased 19% to $1.13 reflecting effective capital management and gains related to certain long-term investments.
And finally free cash flow increased 4% driven by strong working capital performance and a declining CapEx spend.
Overall in our seasonally weakest quarter we delivered positive performance against each of our key metrics.
Having made significant investments across the firm in both risk analytics and the most robust set of solutions for health care exchanges we're on track for a solid finish to 2013 and continue to strengthen the platform for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility in 2014.
Turning to Slide 4.
On the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 4% with growth across every major business.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage.
With management of our renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average a record level of performance in Q3 highlighting strong client satisfaction in Retail Brokerage.
New business generation of approximately $235 million across our Retail business with double-digit new business growth in many markets globally across the Americas EMEA and Asia Pacific regions.
Investments in new product and service capabilities with the growth of GRIP and Aon Broking globally is delivering increased operating leverage.
And in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 10 consecutive quarters.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 5%.
Exposures are relatively stable and the impact from pricing was modestly positive on average reflecting the steady pace of year-over-year increase.
We saw solid growth across all regions U.S.
Retail Latin America and Canada and growth across all businesses property/casualty Health and Benefits and Affinity.
In U.S.
Retail we delivered solid growth driven by strong management of the renewal book portfolio with record levels of retention and rollover.
In International organic revenue growth was 2%.
Exposure there relatively stable and the impact from pricing was flat on average with further pricing in cat-exposed regions and softer pricing across most areas in Europe.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets New Zealand and many regions across Asia including double-digit growth in areas such as Germany Central and Eastern Europe China and the Middle East.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe macroeconomic conditions still remain fragile across many core markets.
However with leadership positions across this region we saw strong retention rates and management of our renewal book portfolio deliver modest growth.
Overall a solid performance against economic and market headwinds.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 5%.
You can note that the third quarter was favorably impacted by timing of approximately 2 points of revenue pulled forward from the fourth quarter.
While this has no impact on the bottom line we do expect a modest decline in organic revenue in the fourth quarter as a result of this timing.
Excluding the timing impact between the third and fourth quarters underlying results continue to reflect modest organic revenue with growth in both treaty and facultative placements.
As we've noted over the last few quarters record capacity continues to be available to meet demand and cedents are retaining more risk driving expected negative market impact.
Absent an event in the industry macro factors will continue to be a headwind in 2014.
Against those headwinds we expect results to continue to reflect modest growth highlighted by net new business won which was positive for the 10th consecutive quarter.
Overall this level of performance and strength in new business generation reflects Aon Benfield's unmatched level of investment and long-term value proposition for clients while strengthening operational performance and reducing volatility through unmatched data analytics and advisory capability.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Overall organic revenue growth was flat.
We saw solid organic growth in Consulting Services despite weak discretionary spend globally and continued economic pressure in Continental Europe.
This underlying performance reflects growth in areas where we're making significant investments in the business in areas such as health care exchanges investment consulting and pension risk management consulting.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risk continue to rise unchecked at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at a local level managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
And finally after continuing to work through the worst economic recession in the last 70 years clients are beginning to renew their focus on talent retention development engagement to prepare themselves for renewed long-term growth.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 3%.
Results reflect solid growth across our communications compensation and in our retirement business for investment consulting and delegated pension management service.
Despite weak demand for discretionary services and overall economic weakness in Continental Europe for the full year we are on track to deliver low to mid-single-digit organic growth across Consulting Services business.
In Outsourcing organic revenue declined 1% compared to flat in the prior-year quarter.
Organic revenue reflects a modest decline in benefits administration partially offset by modest growth in project revenue and discretionary services.
Benefits administration continues to reflect net client activity that began in the beginning of 2013 but become less of a headwind in Q4 and into 2014.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
We believe Aon is in a unique position.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership with the international rollout of the Revenue Engine and Client Promise to drive greater productivity and efficiency.
We're investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information capturing roughly 1.8 million trades and more than $94 billion of bound premium.
We continue to have a growing list of insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and services capabilities.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiatives to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
We continue to align our global Health and Benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
And we're investing in the further development of data and analytics capability at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading client-serving capability.
Finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that either increase scale in emerging markets or expand capabilities to better serve clients.
In HR Solutions we're making significant investments to strengthen our industry-leading position and comprehensive portfolio of health solutions including health care exchanges.
We have the industry's most robust set of solutions across large middle small and retiree market covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies as an increasing number of our employers are faced with decisions at a critical time in health care.
Health care exchanges as Aon Hewitt's unique business model reflects enable clients to begin transitioning their participants to a sustainable full-service solution based on expanded choice in a competitive marketplace.
In the third quarter we announced strong growth in enrollment on Aon Hewitt's corporate exchange for 2014 a further validation of our vision of private health care exchanges.
Employer participation is 6x higher and employee enrollment is expected to triple to 330 000 employees or more than 600 000 lives including eligible dependents.
Of the 18 clients participating during this enrollment more than half are new logos to Aon representing a broad spectrum of industries including retail business and professional services health care financial and a private equity health firm just to name a few.
Tremendous progress in this area.
Separately across our HR Solutions portfolio we're expanding in high-growth areas for both current clients and new markets.
Innovative solutions to derisk pension plans are in high demand with our existing retiree -- retirement client base.
And our delegated pension solutions are opening relationships in new markets.
We're also providing a broader set of advisory and advocacy solutions through our clients' employees to enable greater choice and improve decision-making on the retirement and health care options.
We continue to expand our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platforms.
And finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
Overall we proved the concept of these major investments in 2012 and we're fully on track to drive greater scale and increased operating leverage in 2013 and 2014.
In summary we delivered financially across each of our key metrics while continuing to strengthen our industry-leading platform through significant strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth and operating leverage into 2014.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted we delivered positive performance against all 4 key metrics in our seasonally weakest quarter.
We continue to position Aon for long-term growth strong free cash flow generation and increased financial flexibility as highlighted by the repurchase of $500 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 19% to $1.13 per share for the third quarter compared to $0.95 in the prior-year quarter.
Results reflect the strong performance in our Risk Solutions segment effective capital management in the quarter and approximately $0.10 from gains on sales of certain long-term investments as we monetized unproductive capital.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on Page 12 of the press release include noncash intangible asset amortization and restructuring charges related to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
We expect that all remaining charges for the formal restructuring programs will be complete and final in 2013.
Foreign currency translation had a $0.02 unfavorable impact on earnings per share in the quarter due primarily to a stronger dollar versus most major currencies.
If currency will remain stable at today's rates we would expect a slightly higher unfavorable impact in the fourth quarter than we experienced in the current quarter.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 4% operating margin increased 110 basis points to 21.1% and operating income increased 8% versus the prior-year quarter.
Organic growth across Retail and Reinsurance driven by our investments in GRIP and analytics as well as $9 million of restructuring savings were partially offset by a 30-basis-point unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a decline in investment income.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
Under the Aon Hewitt program approximately $90 million of estimated savings will be achieved in Risk Solutions within the Health and Benefits business that was transferred in 2012.
Approximately $60 million of the cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with the remaining $30 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
A breakout of restructuring charges incurred in Risk Solutions associated with the Aon Hewitt program is detailed in the schedules on Page 13 of the press release.
In Q3 we delivered strong operating performance in Risk Solutions despite continued economic uncertainty in Europe an unfavorable impact from foreign currency and a decline in investment income.
Year-to-date Risk Solutions margins are up 100 basis points placing us firmly on track for solid operating margin improvement for the full year and continued progress towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was flat operating margin decreased 210 basis points to 15.4% and operating income decreased 11% versus the prior year quarter.
A $12 million dollars unfavorable impact from the timing of certain expenses continued investment in health care exchanges and an unfavorable revenue mix shift more than offset incremental restructuring savings in the quarter.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program approximately $242 million of the $288 million in total cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with the remaining $46 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
As discussed in previous quarters we provided commentary regarding the outlook for the HR segment in 2013.
And that outlook remains unchanged.
We expect to: number one deliver continued organic growth; number two drive greater scale and improved return from investments; number three deliver savings related to restructuring programs; number four deliver performance modestly down in the first half and up in the second half of the year resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth for 2013.
While we've experienced some onetime items and have incurred incremental expenses and as we invest in certain areas of our business we fully expect to deliver a strong Q4 resulting in mid-single-digit operating income growth in 2013 expanding to stronger operating income growth in 2014 as we generate an improved return on our investments.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses decreased $3 million to $43 million reflecting a decrease in expenses related to the company's redomicile to the U.K.
Interest income increased $2 million to $3 million due to higher average cash balances.
Interest expense decreased $4 million due to a decline in both the average rate and the total amount of debt outstanding in the quarter.
Other income of $39 million primarily includes $42 million of gains on sales of business and certain long-term investments as we monetize our long-term investments and put the capital to better use for shareholders.
Going forward we expect a run rate of $1 million per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $55 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 25.1% compared to 23.2% in the prior-year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the third quarters of 2013 and 2012 were impacted by certain discrete tax adjustments.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 312.9 million in the third quarter compared to 331 million in the prior-year quarter.
The company repurchased 7.3 million of Class A ordinary shares for approximately $500 million in the third quarter.
The company had $2.95 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on September 30 was 301 million and there are approximately 10 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q4 2013 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 311 million subject to share price movements share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
At September 30 cash and short-term investments was $726 million and total debt outstanding was $4.6 billion.
Overall debt-to-capital increased to 37.7% at September 30 compared to 37% at June 30 primarily driven by an increase in total debt outstanding.
Cash flow from operations was flat at $597 million in the third quarter due primarily to a decrease in pension contributions and strong underlying working capital performance offset by an increase in cash paid for taxes and the timing of certain interest expense payments.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 4% or $19 million to $545 million in the third quarter driven by a $20 million decrease in CapEx.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our long-term financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
As you can see from this chart based on current assumptions we expect free cash flow to increase by over $500 million over the next 6 years based only on a reduction in cash used in pensions and restructuring.
Growth in the core business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate would generate additional free cash flow growth.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to derisk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by $85 million to $463 million in 2014 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments are anticipated to be $159 million in 2013.
As our restructuring plans continue to wind down we would expect cash payments to decline $81 million to approximately $75 million in 2014 before declining further each year thereafter.
As we continue to grow improve operating performance and our required uses of cash declines we expect our strong free cash flow to be a significant source of value creation for shareholders.
In summary we are on track for a solid finish and improved performance for the full year.
We continue to focus on 3 primary areas that will each contribute substantially stronger free cash flow over the next several years.
First continued growth and operating margin improvement towards our long-term target; second declining uses of cash on pension and restructuring; third greater capital flexibility and increased cash flow from a lower effective tax rate.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and increased financial flexibility we've positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have our first question from Michael Nannizzi Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So Christa can I just maybe dig in a little bit into the mid-single-digit operating earnings growth on the HR side? So -- and let me know if this math is right I think in order to get to like a 6% increase in operating earnings you would need either 600 basis points of margin in the fourth quarter or I think you had insinuated maybe last quarter that it might be like 400 basis points in which case you would need top line to come in like 15% higher.
Is the number for 4Q is it just the margin number? Or is there a revenue component that's going to help to drive that number into that range? Yes.
I mean there are really 3 things that are driving the Q4 timing being sort of more seasonally Q4-orientated than previous years.
The first is the seasonality of exchanges.
And we've described previously that almost 100% of the exchange revenue gets recognized in Q4 so you have quite a substantial portion of revenue as you just outlined.
The second is the unfavorable revenue mix shift we've seen related to benefits administration as Greg described is really declining.
It is impacting Q4.
And the third is the savings from restructuring are really increasing in Q4.
So those 3 things are really driving Q4 timing being substantially higher than previous years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's a -- and do we have any notion in terms of what the revenue impact of that? And is this really all health care exchange that's driving this margin or revenue benefit in the fourth quarter? Or are there other timing aspects that are contributing to that? I mean a very big portion of it is health care exchanges Michael.
And I guess what I would also outline is you did see approximately $20 million of timing in terms of expenses and investments in Q3 that otherwise might have occurred in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that's maybe like 100 150 basis points.
But like you still need considerable margin improvement.
So that -- okay so there's a revenue element as well as the margin piece.
And have you -- can you give us a little bit -- any more granularity in terms of what the net margins on that business are and what sort of revenue could fall into the fourth quarter? Just curious it's kind of hard to model it or think about it.
We just don't have a lot of clarity given it's so new.
Yes.
And look what we've given Michael is really full year guidance in terms of mid-single-digit operating income growth for the full year.
We feel very confident about being able to deliver that.
And we have full line of sight given we are actually in annual enrollment period for health care exchanges at the moment.
And so that's really the level of guidance we've given so far.
Next question is Meyer Shields KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is I think a small numbers question.
But I think Greg you mentioned that there were 2 points of carryforward of Reinsurance organic growth in the quarter but no impact on the bottom line.
I'm just trying to understand how that worked.
Yes.
Literally it was just a match of timing in terms of expense versus revenue.
So net-net for the year Meyer as we said growth overall low single digits as we sort of finish out the overall year but no effect on the bottom line.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fantastic.
With regard to the unfavorable HR revenue mix is that driven by macroeconomic factors? I'm just wondering whether there's any way we can anticipate that ahead of time.
It's really in our benefits administration risk business.
And we've had pricing compression in that business for a number of years.
It's been exactly as we expected.
And that's really the main component of that.
And as we said Meyer basically it begins to roll off 3 [ph] [indiscernible] more benefit in '14 more benefit.
I think the key theme though coming back to Christa's point if you think about the business overall for the year we're going to achieve what we hope to achieve mid-single-digit operating income growth and then the ability to kind of invest strategically in a number of platforms which we're funding as part of that through the P&amp;L.
And the only other thing I'd add Meyer is clearly we are investing in high-growth areas like health care exchanges.
And we've openly said that we are losing money in health care exchanges this year.
And so if you think about it you've got a high-growth area that's losing money and so that contributes to a negative impact on your margins.
But we feel really good about that business.
We are incredibly well positioned.
We have complete end-to-end solutions across the health care spectrum for clients and employees.
And we feel like that investment will be our highest return on capital investment across the company.
Next question Brian Meredith UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First Greg I wonder if you could talk on the health care exchanges how much of that 330 000 is actually in the retirement exchanges? Or is that a separate number? So Brian the entire 330 000 is in the active exchange.
As we've talked before we're very pleased.
As you think about sort of how we've developed that platform last year we had 3 clients.
This year we have 18 so 15 new 1/2 of that group coming on are actually new names to Aon and Aon Hewitt.
And in that context it's 330 000 new employees and really 600 000 lives in total if you include dependents.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then how are the retirement exchanges doing? Retirement continues to progress very very well.
In fact if you look across the spectrum it's really as exactly as Christa described in the context of we've got a full range of solutions.
We've got the most complete range of solutions.
And whether you're talking across large corporate middle market small and retiree markets it really is a broad set of solutions.
And we've been very pleased with the understanding adoption and now enrollment on both the active and the retiree side.
Next question is Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups on the exchanges.
How big of a barrier is it with the large group client to have an exchange with it hooked into your benefit admin and other technology components? It's not a barrier at all Adam quite the reverse we think it's a big opportunity.
When you think about what it means to bring together an exchange you've got to be able to understand design it the brokerage that goes into it administer it and frankly also risk control on the back end when you think about what it means to pull together an integrated exchange.
And I've just described the fundamental capabilities of Aon Aon Corporation and Aon Hewitt.
And that's really what's been a huge benefit for us is we actually brought what is a true set of innovative concepts to market.
And for us the exciting part has been the validation by very large corporate sophisticated clients who know this space exceptionally well.
We were very careful to make sure we were actually refining this evaluating this across industries.
We're very pleased to report a range of industries clients that represent a range of industries came on board: retail wholesale professional services hospitality et cetera.
So we would say from that standpoint really the strength of the assets of Aon have really brought this together.
Also remember we already serve 6.5 million active employees on the benefits administration health side.
That basis has been developed over many many years.
And the knowledge and understanding of that has served us exceptionally well as we've launched the exchanges.
Research Division</strong> Actually you answered the question but I meant the barriers for others to come in the business.
But I think you answered the question.
You'll have to be your own judge on that.
We're going to focus on our clients and on Aon.
But this is an exciting set of platforms that are coming onboard.
But as you're really indicating they really do require a lot of expertise and capability across a range of areas.
Research Division</strong> And one other follow-up on exchanges.
As you were out talking with your clients this year compared to last year what's the willingness -- what's the change in willingness of clients to listen to an exchange solution compared to a year ago? Well you come back to the fundamental principle this is truly about client need and what they're trying to accomplish.
And our clients having -- facing a set of health care challenges and issues that just continue to increase 8% to 9% growth year-over-year.
If you look over the last 5 years a 19% increase in pay versus an 82% 83% increase in health care costs.
So the willingness if you've got a solution that really helps their employees because that really is the focal point for our clients and our companies that helps their employees understand have greater transparency have greater choice and really can start to think about ways they can modify their behavior and control their health care spend at the individual and company level that's what's really created a set of opportunities for us.
And it's been very very positive.
And as I said before we've done as we've introduced this to a very sophisticated set of clients and carriers understand we've got 20 carriers represented on our exchange 11 new this year.
So the uptick to your specific question was very strong early on.
And then after we actually launched the first 3 as we did the first year the interest was exponentially higher.
And now having brought 18 new on you can imagine the interest is also growing.
And only because we've got a solution that actually helps them succeed.
And that's what we're excited about.
The next question is from Mike Zaremski Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to pension contributions I was curious if we thought about today's higher interest rate levels and capital markets levels would it be fair to say that pension contribution would likely fall when it's recalculated at year end? Yes so if you look at Page 11 of the slide deck we do have our estimated pension contributions for 2014 onwards.
There obviously is sensitivity to those contributions based on market returns interest rates and FX.
And obviously rising interest rates could be upside to those.
But it's likely to be sort of still declining over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Christa those are estimates as of 12/31/12 right.
And so [indiscernible] estimate at the end of the year they might change.
Okay.
Yes.
And when we report Q4 earnings we'll update these tables with the new measurement based on 12/31/2013 which is really the only official time we measure during the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Last question on the health care exchanges.
Since my understanding for the actives the offering the platform you offer is on a fully insured basis would that mean that fully insured employees -- employers are the main target because self-insured employers have a higher kind of hurdle rate to convert given the cost differentials? Not at all.
In fact what we really want to emphasize here there's a lot of discussion out there using the word exchange and they mean very very different things to different people.
So it's really important you parse it up and really understand the specific definitions.
And when we said that we've got a full range of solutions so we will cut across and actually focus on clients against their specific set of needs what's exciting about the fully insured multi-carrier exchange is it does a number of things that just frankly don't exist in the market today.
And we're associated with it because we have the only one that exists in the market today fully insured multiple carriers.
And if you're talking to a currently self-insured large employer which most of them are so they've all actually made the decision done the analysis themselves and decided the fully insured option was in fact the best option to help them succeed.
And they saw opportunities to reduce their trend.
They saw opportunities to [indiscernible] in cost opportunities to reduce volatility.
They saw something that actually created for their employee something that would be create greater transparency had a very clear view on options that they would have.
And then the sophisticated employers also saw that they were creating greater alignment between the carriers and actually bringing their innovative solutions to help their employees change behavior.
So you've really got a carrier now in the mix with their solutions to help employers become healthier but they've really got a lot of emphasis and alignment behind that.
So really we've sat across the table from most of the larger companies that are self-insured have done the analysis looked at it and that's actually where the greatest interest is.
And as I said we've got a full range of solutions.
But this fully insured multi-carrier solution is the only one of its kind today and that's certainly created a lot of interest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess along the same lines are the actives versus the retiree platform are the -- should we expect the economics to be similar? So what we said before overall the economics on both sides are going to be beneficial and they're going to continue to evolve.
And as I said if you step back just go where Christa was at the beginning think about we're going to be able to put this up get it going really build a platform in a very we think a significant high-growth area and deliver mid-single-digit operating performance in '13 and greater than mid-single in '14.
So it's we think a very positive set of developments.
And next question is from Jay Gelb Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the health exchanges we've conducted an analysis of the potential upside from that market.
And I just want to confirm a couple of our own assumptions.
The commission rate on the private exchanges what level is that come in at? Jay we haven't disclosed that number I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then pretax margins for health care exchange relative to the average for overall HR Solutions.
I guess if you're assuming faster operating earnings growth for the entire segment that would imply at least the average level of margins.
We actually think Jay at scale the margins in this business are far more attractive than the average margins across our HR business hence why we've invested so much in this area and why we believe it's one of the highest return areas across the company.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
At what level would scale be achieved? Is that revenue? Is that insured lives? It's really about number of active participants in the exchange because really what happens Jay is you have a cost of customer acquisition in year 1 and then you get improved margins in year 2 based on renewal.
And then really you have sort of some level of fixed investment on which you need to get a return based on the number of employees.
And we expect margin expansion and greater return on that investment in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what level of scale would you need to achieve on that number of active participants? It's around what 330 000 now of insured lives? We've got 330 000 active employees enrolled this year which covers approximately 600 000 including dependents.
And we feel like we're well on track to get scale.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also separately Christa the pace of share buybacks picked up pretty significantly in 3Q $500 million that was largely consistent with what you did in the entire first half.
So how should we think about the pace of buybacks going forward? I would say that buyback is a reflection in our confidence about the outlook for the company.
As you know Jay we allocate cash based on the highest return on capital options across Aon and share repurchase is the highest.
As we look out over the next 5 years we think that free cash flow could double over the next 5 years as we look at hitting our long-term margin target decrease cash on pension and restructuring and decreasing the global tax rate.
And so as we think about that we're not giving specific guidance but you can look at history as a guide.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But in terms of anchoring expectations that $500 million for the quarter that probably should not be viewed as a run rate.
Is that right? I would not use it as a run rate Jay.
I would say as we get excess capital we deploy it to the highest use of cash that we can find.
And that's what happened this quarter.
Next question is Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of cleanup questions here.
One is could you talk a little bit about the businesses that were sold in the quarter and maybe kind of add-on to that sort of the strategic vision there in terms of what you're interested in selling and getting rid of? Yes.
I mean Paul really primarily investments we had under long-term investments on our balance sheet.
And you can see that number coming down over time.
If you reflect back 2 years that number was over $300 million.
It's now closer to $100 million.
And we're really just trying to sell off investments to receive the cash to actually put the cash to better work for shareholders.
It really just reflects our focal point and our goal is risk and people.
The clients understand measure and mitigate risk and everything around people pensions retirement health and benefits talent and rewards.
And this portfolio of investments while have been on the books for a long time isn't directly connected to that strategy.
And therefore in the appropriate times we'll divest and invest that cash back into the business.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> What are those investments? Yes I mean they're really sort of long-term investments and percentage ownerships in things that have been on the book for a long time.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> No I mean I'm sorry maybe I wasn't asking the question.
I mean how would you characterize those questions? Are they actually strategic investments in equities? Are they...
No they're definitely not strategic investments.
Otherwise we wouldn't be getting rid of them.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Well venture capital are they equities? Are they...
Some examples we made a number of acquisitions over the years.
Some of those acquisitions comes with partial ownership of other companies that aren't on track at all.
That's one example of one.
And again our evaluation was we had a $300 million portfolio that wasn't helping us succeed day-to-day in the risk and people mission of the firm.
And we said when there's an appropriate time and an opportunity we'll exit those investments and invest it back into the business.
And it comes as Christa said from an entire range of things different private equity holdings over time again subsidiaries of companies that we bought.
And so we've just made a concerted effort as we invest back into risk and people to focus everything we can on that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That certainly squares with what you are doing.
And then the tax benefit in the quarter can we get a little bit more about that just to see...
So I would describe the Q3 tax rate as including discrete items.
And so I think as we think about sort of the tax rate going forward we're not giving guidance on tax rate going forward we've said previously that we expect the tax rate over the long term to decrease by more than 500 basis points from the point at which we redomiciled the company to the U.K.
And that's really the level of guidance we're giving.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And the discrete items were...? Really just true-ups from our previous years' tax filings certain regulatory changes things like that.
Next question is Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all -- you guys give great information.
And thinking into the future I'm sure you thought about 2017 when Obamacare will allow large employers to send their employees to public exchanges.
Is that a competitive threat for the private exchange? And if it's not why not? Again we'd come back Josh to the fundamental principle helping companies help their employees.
And I really want to stress to reflect on the conversations with the current companies that have decided to come onto our exchange fundamental to their discussion was how do we help our employees.
Because no one I think would describe the current health care system as efficient.
And if you look across that system and say how can it become more efficient fundamentals of that is actually giving employees greater choice but also providing incentives and accountability for them to change behavior and hopefully become healthier.
And so this is really what the companies are focused on and this is really what our private exchange gives them.
And the fully insured multi-carrier exchange for large corporate carriers or large companies I should say really provides that benefit and increases alignment in ways I've described before that really puts insured -- the insurance carriers behind that mission.
So it creates cost opportunity as much as can be a cost advantage but really the companies are thinking about their employees and also the ability to help them make better decisions.
So from our standpoint we feel very good about that value proposition.
I would also say the complication in all the different aspects that have to come together to make that viable and meaningful and compelling are quite substantial.
So in our view we hope the public exchanges succeed.
We collectively need them to succeed.
But for our companies and who we serve every day obviously a different group we feel very very comfortable about our current value proposition.
And as Christa has already described we're investing very very heavily behind it.
So our level of innovation is going to be substantial over the coming years so feel good about what that value proposition is going to look like today and I suspect it will even feel better what it looks like in 2017.
Research Division</strong> When you have your strategic talks on exchange among yourselves do you expect that while you'll keep most of your customers there will be some customers lost to public exchange in 2017? Again it's possible.
But when we come back and you look at the fundamentals there are 122 million active employees out there today.
Those employers have literally said they're going to continue to really take on the responsibility of providing coverage.
And a large portion of those are really going to be looking to exchanges.
We see that actually grow over time.
And really for us the large employer has really been the focal point.
And the set of solutions they're going to make a choice on the best outcome the best set of solutions and we feel very good about the program we've got right now and the platform we pulled together.
Again you think about it 18 companies really did the evaluation very thorough all the pros all the cons at the forefront of this opportunity and felt very comfortable and comfortable enough to bring their employees on it today.
And these are very sophisticated companies who've actually looked ahead and made all the tradeoffs that you're asking about.
So we feel good about where we are.
But we've got to keep innovating investing and we've got to keep up and our companies help their clients succeed -- or their employees succeed I should say.
Research Division</strong> Great answer.
And just one -- following on what Brian asked on retiree versus active exchanges one of your competitors is putting out very lofty successes they've had on the retiree exchange but they haven't nearly met your successes on the active exchange.
We haven't heard the same kind of success level on your retiree exchange as your active exchange.
What's the timeline for that to be equivalently attractive? Or what do you think is going on there between those 2 types of products? Well I would say getting back on the corporate exchange again part of what's happening is the definition of exchanges are very very widely varied.
So I want to really emphasize that.
And if you go back to kind of what an exchange means we have really the only fully insured multi-carrier exchange at this point in time.
So there are lots of other exchange options around self-insureds that will be talked about but it just is kind of apples and oranges at this point from a value proposition.
And on the retiree exchange our Navigators group has done an exceptional job.
We've got 46 clients now serving approximately 300 000 folks.
And that will continue to grow and expand.
And we're very excited about where we are the platform we've got in place right now and how that's going to develop over time.
It's just as you said the public the media has picked up much more on the corporate exchange than the private exchange and that's probably why you see a bit more about it.
The next question is Chuck Sebaski BMO Capital Markets.
I've got one question Christa.
Regarding the guidance and HR Solutions business as of last quarter there was 2 pieces of guidance.
It was mid-single-digit organic growth or earnings growth and it was year-over-year margin improvement.
And there wasn't any mention of the margin improvement story.
Is this a change? No change.
So will be margin improvement year-over-year? Yes.
Excellent.
I also have a question about CapEx and how you guys look at that.
If the growth parameters that you're expecting change is there any potential that there's more CapEx needed that health care exchanges or the other technology platforms really take up that you need further investment to manage that process or manage a growth track? And sort of what kind of variability there might be in that? So we've obviously given outlook for capital expenditure on Page 11 of the slide deck.
And what I would say is we manage CapEx like we manage any other investment across the business.
We manage it on a return on capital basis.
We do have a capital-light business.
And the capital we spend is primarily on sort of IT and investments in software.
And obviously we are making investments in data and analytics.
And that does have CapEx related to it.
And we expect that to continue.
And so we will continue to evaluate our CapEx spend and invest as we get great return from it.
The next question is Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
One just looking at the health care exchanges again.
I guess comparing the number of lives you see in the 330 000 on the active and then 300 000 on the retiree exchange this year how does that compare to your expectations kind of heading into the enrollment season? We were -- it met our expectations.
Again when you think about it this was not about numbers and volume for us it's about quality and experience for employees.
What we wanted to do in the first year we brought 3 companies on as you know truly proved the concept of -- in this case as a fully insured multi-carrier exchange.
Went to renewal -- the second renewal of those 3 and then brought now 15 additional on.
And our focal point was really beginning to scale up which we've been able to do but do it with the highest quality seamless execution for our clients.
And so for us again it's not about the number because there's been tremendous interest and the pipeline is quite strong.
It's about quality of experience and that's been very very positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then also about the 15 new employees that you took on how many other companies have you kind of started conversations with or spoke to about potentially joining your exchange? The pipeline has been quite substantial.
And you can imagine again the interest out there now is quite high and the media has amplified it.
And so we're having many many conversations.
And we're confident that we're going to continue to grow the exchange very robustly.
And the interest as I said is quite high.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then also when looking out past commentary you've kind of pointed to starting to have some positive earnings in 2014 and then growing even further into 2015.
Is that still what you're thinking in terms of you'll see some positive contribution starting next year from the health care exchange? Elyse what we think is as you know we are making a loss this year.
We will improve performance in terms of profitability next year.
And really what you should look for is the HR Solutions operating income growth which is mid-single-digits in '13 and greater than mid-single-digits in '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question you guys announced an arrangement with Lloyd's earlier this year.
And you I know in the past spoke positively about it from your point of view and then also from your clients.
Earlier this week we saw Willis announce a kind of similar arrangement within the London market.
If you could just update us of kind of what you're seeing with your own deal and then also if you have any kind of views on what Willis has announced?.
Yes I'll just direct my comments to the work we've done and did with the joint venture with Berkshire Hathaway is really what it was.
And it was -- and it really was we just provided our clients with very fast efficient access to AA+ capital very very positive.
Our clients were very excited about it.
We linked it to Lloyd's so that really was the capacity and the opportunities going into Lloyd's.
And our clients have received it very very well.
And we said that before and it hasn't changed if you think about the placements into Lloyd's.
And we are privileged we're the largest provider into Lloyd's.
And in that context the clients that we engaged so when you think about Lloyd's 75% 80% 90% of them wanted to actually access this capacity which is fantastic.
And we said publicly and Lloyd's has confirmed that our volume into Lloyd's in the first part of the year through the first 9 months is up double digits.
So I think as we said we thought the clients would be interested in it.
We thought it would reinforce Lloyd's and reinforce their overall strategy 2025 strategy.
We think it's done that in the context of this.
And they've actually confirmed that overall.
I'll leave the Willis program to Willis on their call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want to say thanks to everybody for joining and look forward to the next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
On health exchanges benefit administration segment from what we understand this selling season actually kicked off pretty early it actually kicked off real more year-end I guess when is that so and along with that I guess clients comfort level looking at new benefit platforms compared to year ago.
I would say Adam this is really a conversation we have with clients all the time there really is that a defined selling season per say.
There is a decision point where clients have to get comfortable if were going to make different changes that they really are comfortable to explain and make sure their employees know exactly what they are doing to really enforce the benefits they are providing.
So thats really a continued I would say the activity as you wanted to think about that continues to be very very strong.
Our clients are excited about the opportunities to support their employees more effectively and take some steps to think about their overall cost curve and how they can shape that in context of really serving their employees better.
And just one follow-up it seems like this business is relatively seasonal that obviously a lot of enrollment season comes year-end and implementation of new systems comes couple of months before that.
How are you trying to smooth out some of that infrastructure some of that seasonal infrastructure? Well I would say couple of things first of all remember this is an investment were making in the business thats growing well and there are a set of characteristics that the revenue is captured more in the fourth quarter and lot of the investments are in the first second third quarter as you ramp up and part of the reflection now it is our success and actually bringing clients onboard and were making investments to do that.
So were quite comfortable with this we have a high degree of predictability in terms of whats going to happen which is why were comfortable saying were going to grow operating income mid to greater single digits for the year which is what were thinking about overall.
And so absolutely greater than mid-single digit operating income growth for the year and as we think about this Adam we really think about it on the full year basis and we continue to make progress on health exchanges each year that goes on a return on the original investments we made and as Greg described in terms of you know client and pipeline and the experience that our clients had in 2013 which was very impressive and Greg referred in his original comments of having cash flow was only 5.1% compared to an industry average of 6% to 8%.
So a significant benefit the clients are achieving it's part of the exchange.
And all it really does is reflect against this annual view on the financials how do we strengthen our business to serve clients more effectively is to represent one really important step in that direction and we will continue to do that to support our clients and ultimately really drive the financial performance that comes with that.
And one just quick final and am I right in thinking that as the book of exchange client seasons in other words clients that are on the exchange 1-2 years does the margin go up on the season book of business compared to the new business? Well there is obviously clearly a set of ramp up cost that comes with bringing new clients on board ramping them onto this.
So yes overtime you can expect to sort of see that trend in the underlying business which we fully expect but I would emphasize were very comfortable with the upfront investment required to do that for two reasons one is the absolute fundamental benefit they were bringing to our clients their employees and also obviously the resulting financial the result that comes with that when youre supporting clients.
Just a question reinsurance brokerage and the solid organic this quarter you mentioned good new business wins and Im wondering if you could talk about do you feel thats coming from share gains from peers share gains from the direct market or do you think it's driven by an expansion of the pie that might be happening from alternative capital or geographic expansion or anything like that just a little more color on there.
Our fundamental position that really resulted in the specifics are when we look at our treaty business we captured a very micro level sort of wins and losses and for 12 consecutive quarters now that has been very positive or have been positive for three full years and that is a function of about everything.
The buy sort of we look at in terms of how we think about helping clients succeed how do we help improve the return on invested capital reduce our volatility and that comes from lots of different categories and whether it's in a classic treaty business where we have got the number one platform or in faculty also the number one platform or in the whole world around capital markets in transaction and advisory services where we got the number one platform.
Those three capabilities we bring to our clients on an integrated basis and our goal is not a product based goal it is a client value based goal.
How do we help them improve performance? And decrease volatility? And thats whats led to what we believe is strong traction of the business and will continue to be going forward.
And then just one follow-up on the capital markets side can you talk a little bit more about trends there and maybe talk about the impact that that had on the quarter as well? Well as we said before as you think about sort of we thought we will kind of be modestly positive for the year overall we came a little stronger in the quarter that was due to facultative and some of our transaction advisory business which tends to be lumpy with little more in the first quarter but we dont change our view for the year kind of modestly positive for the year overall and when you think about sort of the impact on capital markets and this whole new transactions advisory piece it could be very important particularly as alternative capital comes into the market place and if you think about it we reported a level of capital of 540 billion and it's literally an all-time high up 7% from year-end 2012 and probably underlying that 540 billion is about 50 billion in alternative capital in the context of that just over 9%.
We expect that to be a 100 billion over the next 3 4 5 years.
So a lot of dynamics happening that our clients did react to which means we have to help and think about it and react to that which is one of the real strengths of what we bring to the table and why were excited about this platform and how we can help clients going forward.
Just one really quick item to just on the tax rate again and the discreet items that you talked about that could happen later this year.
Are those unusual items or do you think there are things that can recur again? Im just trying to just think about 2015 trend relative to 14.
Yes I mean discreet tax adjustments happen every year and as I mentioned we had a 200 to 300 basis point unfavorable impact from discreet tax adjustments in 2013.
There are things like prior period adjustments as we continue to close out audit and some things like that around the globe and so I would expect them to continue.
Is there a way to look at the organic growth in HR Solutions if we back out the impact of the timing issues as well as the exchanges? If you back out the impact of the timing it's approximately 4% underlying to the quarter and it's very similar to some of the low to mid-single digit growth that we would expect in HR Consulting for the year and similarly for the overall HR segment for the full year.
And then little bit broad question you and Gallagher actually mentioned this in their earnings earlier that the organic growth for your business seems to be increasingly backend loaded and is that purely a function in your opinion of whats going on with the exchanges and maybe even talk about mechanically why thats happening but also are there other factors that are affecting the organic growth from your business that means that youre just seeing more revenue shift basically towards the back half of the year.
Paul there really isn't -- there really isn't that much about sort of structural shifts on there it really is very straight forward.
When you think about our risk business nothing really has changed we have always had a relatively fourth quarter weighted in the U.S.
from a renewal standpoint; by the way the first quarter is heavily weighted for EMEA.
So nothing has changed at all on the Risk side of the business which is a very very large percentage of our overall business obviously and the HR Solution side that the new news [ph] here is what were on the exchange front which is an offering which happens to be more fourth quarter weighted which is just because the way the enrollment cycle works.
So not a lot going on here pretty straightforward.
Youre starting to see this move in HR Solutions because of the work on the exchanges.
I just had a couple of other questions on the HR Solutions business I know every quarter we kind of see except the fourth quarter the margins offset to a degree by the investments youre making in the healthcare exchanges.
Anyway to sort of pinpoint the level of margin improvement we might be seeing and the rest of your book just outside of the private healthcare exchanges? kind of flat for the third and up for the fourth and that picture hasnt changed at all.
And the other thing I would say Elyse is if you think about our healthcare exchange business we will generate a modest profit in that business in 2014 which means it's dilutive to our overall margins therefore the margins in the rest of our business are growing substantially to generate greater than mid-single digit operating income growth as Greg said for the full year.
And then just following-up you did put that modest positive earnings kind of number out there last quarter did anything kind of happened during the enrollment season last year and looking forward that might cause you to be a little bit more positive or are you just kind of waiting for the enrollment season to potentially update your view on that side?  Well nothing has really changed since -- last year we said we would be mid-single digit thats exactly where we were this year we said our mid-single digits are greater thats exactly what were based on first quarter and as we said things going exactly as planned.
Were very excited about progress and were looking forward to updating you once we finish the enrollment cycle.
And then just if we could spend a little bit just discussing the retail brokerage business I know in your commentary you did point to stable exposures and some modest benefit from rate increases and I was just trying to get a little bit more of a view as we look forward for the balance of 2014 kind of how you see trends panning out there and how maybe the level of organic growth you would expect to see from here.
Maybe I will start that between sort of market view and just a thought on Aon.
We track this with a Risk inside platform in a very granular level.
So were tracking across our regions and across the world for everything we place and we would if we think about were really talking about market impact here which is a function of both price and ensured values and if you take a look at market impact overall it's flat to slightly positive and it has been flat to slightly positive for a number of quarters we expect that for the remainder of the year.
So if you think about the overall market and the measurement called market impact flat to slightly positive and as it relates to Aon and we intend to grow our business and if it's in the environment were going to grow our business and we would expect -- you know what you saw in this quarter it's going to be reflected what youre going to see for the year.
Well mid-single digit growth and against the book as were investing to grow as I described before.
Greg is it possible maybe Christa to talk about and we haven't talked about GRIP for a little while.
Im just curious to know how much of an impact did GRIP have on margins in risk this quarter and whats been the take up there I dont know if you can give us sort of notionally or how much the fee stream there has increased over the last year? Thanks.
Were not going to break out GRIP as we haven't before and too much detail other than to say GRIP is really a function of all the efforts in data analytics investments are around improving our Aon broking capability and we have continued to get very strong uptake from insurance carriers and sort of their ability to use GRIP information to actually help them decide where they are going to make investments and get frankly do better in matching their capital with our client needs that has worked exceptionally well and continues to do that.
The GRIP is really part of -- its really part of the overall effort to drive to a 26% and it has actually helped us do that.
I would say were up over 30 carriers now which is continued progress it's obviously a lot more out there but sort of (indiscernible) very very good progress and GRIP continues to contribute to grow from a margin standpoint.
Do you think you can raise prices or do you anticipate raising prices for GRIP for current or for potentially new sign ups? Yes this is not for us about raising pricing the way it should perform.
This is about really trying to drive value on behalf of our clients first and foremost and when we drive by on behalf of clients were really helping markets get better aligned against client needs.
One of the real breakthroughs on GRIP let's just the fact that we have got the largest data base in the world around placement information but we have got colleagues who now work with our data working with clients our insurance carriers to help them think about how do they shape their capital and the way thats more value added to our clients.
That is powerful that actually is what gives GRIP meaning to our insurance carriers and real meaning ultimately to our clients and thats how we think about it.
And then in terms of the healthcare exchanges can you -- is it possible to understand like the amount of investment youve made this quarter versus last year and when do you expect I mean clearly youre having a lot of success and youre gaining a lot of traction.
When do you expected that sort of balancing between investing and revenue generation turn so that the margins out of exchange are consistent with the rest of your benefits business? Yes so what we would say is if you look back over the last two years we invested and therefore made a loss in exchanges.
In 2014 we have said that were going to be modestly positive and every year after that were going to drive greater scale and therefore greater return on those investments and were absorbing the investments in 2014 to drive greater than mid-single digit operating income growth in HR Solutions and so each year that growth pass by we will get greater return on that investment and we think it is a very attractive business to be in and therefore it's worth the upfront investment were making and as you know we do allocate our capital whether it's organic investments in healthcare exchanges and GRIP and other things or it's M&amp;A or share repurchase or it's dividends on a free cash flow return on capital basis and so this is one of the most attractive segments across our entire business.
It's really interesting when you think about; the exchange investment is not different than the investments we made in GRIP the investments we made in other areas on investment consulting side.
What we are really focused on doing is make substantial organic investments where we believe they can strengthen our platform and we said we will fully absorb those investments and still improve margins or improve operating income as were in the HR Solutions side and margin on the Risk side.
We have to be able to absorb those and strengthen our platform and for us thats been one of the most gratifying things over the last few years since we will be able to make meaningful investments to grow our business but at the same time grow organically and improve margins and that really is fundamental to what we think at least is for our investors.
And you think the 22% margin that you talk about on slide 8; at scale is that a reasonable goal or target for your exchange platform? Again the 22% and the 26% are not specific to individual areas.
Really the 26% is more -- is a next step on resolutions.
The 22% is the next step on HR Solutions and we feel like were marching towards those and we will continue to do that when we reflect on a year-over-year.
Is reinsurance how do you think about the weakness in heading into 61 [ph] renewals and how that could potentially impact you guys before than potentially including the capital markets potential activity and thanks again for all the answers sorry for so many questions.
We dont provide pricing guidance in the market on the reinsurance side.
It's something thats sort of we have got a tremendous amount of data and analytics behind that we provide it directly into our clients.
We think it's quite beneficial and highly competitively positive for them.
Having said that when you think about the market overall obviously a lot of pressure out there.
The new capital I described before a lot of pressure out there but fundamental you step back and answer the question do clients need help from the standpoint of improving operating performance or reducing volatility? I think that continues to be yes lots of different opportunities for them to do that and thats where we come in whether it's on treaty or faculty or capital markets and advisory business thats what we do.
And thats why I said from our standpoint we expect to be flat to modestly positive for the year on the reinsurance side top line irrespective of whats happening in the overall market.
Yes just a follow-up on the reinsurance obviously these capital markets transactions are becoming more numerous and you guys are playing a very important rule there.
When you assist one of your ceding [ph] company clients in that form versus buying traditional reinsurance.
From your standpoint is that more profitable? In other words if a company instead of buying a particular layer to the traditional reinsurance market will you place that or you underwrite catastrophe bond as a specific example same terms which approach is more profitable for you? So Jay I would say we dont really think about on a product basis that way.
There is a kind of clinical way you can sort of parse those up obviously one is recurring one is not there is a whole series of things to go into that.
We think of it very much around an overall client view so what do we do to help that client succeed by the way very measurable operating performance balance sheet strength volatility as I said before against that very specific set of metrics what did I or we bring to the table and when we bring value to the table we have been very fortunate our clients are very clear about wanting to pass for value but they hold a very bar they should and we want to do it for everybody.
We all need to provide guidance if we do were going to do fine economically and if we dont there all will be challenged economically but thats exactly the bar you want if you are providing value into the market as were.
We want more transparency around that more clarity around that and we think that actually serves very very well given our privilege positions in treaty in fac [ph] and in the capital market side.
Second question on a tax rate you had talked about reducing the tax rate I think 500 basis points and you always said overtime.
It just feels like that happened a lot faster than one might have expected.
I know the full year tax rate may not be as low as what you saw in the first quarter but still it was quite a bit lower than certainly we expected and I think others and did something change here or were you able to recognize that tax setting quicker than you might have originally expected? Jay I would really say that we have been on a path as you to reduce that tax rate by more than 500 basis points over the long term and the rate in Q1 is very much in-line with that sort of previous expectation and I would reinforce the point you made which is we do think that the full year rate of 2014 could be higher due to discreet tax adjustments.
And so whilst the Q1 rate is really a reflection of the geographic distribution of our income which does change from quarter-to-quarter as a mix of our business shifts and as you look at sort of the mix of our business Jay you can see things like emerging markets have grown disproportionately higher than developed markets and then the areas in which we have disproportionately invested whether it's GRIP or healthcare exchanges or other areas have grown much faster than our core business too and so we do expect the mix to change over time as well.
So this tax rate didnt surprise you on the favorable side at all? No it's very much in-line with our expectation of the more than 500 basis points over the long term.
Two margins questions if I can does that have any impact on margins? Is there sort of operating leverage embedded in that? Not really.
I mean we would say as Greg said definitely capital market transactions and facultative transactions are lumpy and therefore as we think about the reinsurance organic growth for the full year 2014 we would say we would expect it to be flat to modestly positive but these capital market transactions and in fact it's a much smaller part of our business but 85% of our revenue in reinsurance is treaty and so that is the majority of what youre seeing in the quarter.
And obviously the margin numbers that we report are Risk Solutions margins overall and report margins on Aon Benfield and as Christa described we expect to make progress on margin in Risk Solutions in 2014 first quarter reflects progress.
Second I guess going forward if you did see this discreet tax adjustments driving the tax rate higher in future quarters in 2014 is that going to have any impact on compensation expenses either at corporate or in individual segments? As we think about the overall business we think about the total company results and as we look at our compensation we have actually done a lot of work on compensation to align with driving value to shareholders.
Example you know our annual bonuses are really based on growing profit year-over-year and the stock for our senior most executive across the company is cumulative three EPSs we report to shareholders.
So nothing in sort of the overall sort of compensation structure or reward structure of our senior leadership team.
It's time based everything is performance based very very large percentage we do is performance based.
So anything that affects performance is going to ultimately affect compensation.
Last question if I can is there any breakthrough from the significant dividend increase in terms of the relative effectiveness of share repurchases? Obviously you can see we did more share repurchase in Q1 in 2014 than we had since 2008 and as I said earlier share repurchase remains the highest return on capital we have in terms of uses of cash and look I would just say that the dividend increases are third year of increase of dividends and we returning capital to the shareholders and we will continue to you know to go on that path.
Ive two questions; one is just on the margin side.
You have 3% organic growth in Risk Solutions; you showed a 110 basis point margin improvement.
Im just wondering if we sustain this sort of low to mid-single digits organic growth will we be able to see the continuing margin expansion in the Risk Solutions.
Yes we absolutely think thats the case.
If you think about sort of we expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth in Risk Solutions in calendar year 2014 if you look at our underlying expense save you know it's mostly people there are largest expense you know you would see a natural sort of inflationary impact of lets call it 2% growth in expenses therefore even a 3% organic revenue growth level we can absolutely drive margin expansion thats what you saw in calendar year 2013 and thats what you have seen in Q1 2014.
Then on the margin and the HR side you have put out long term target 22% I guess before the long term healthcare has changed.
I just wonder the outlook for the private healthcare exchange and the margin of the business will that be sort of like increasing or sort of like be above your long term target for the business 22%? We absolutely believe that the returns on the healthcare exchange business will help us achieve our 22% margin target in HR Solutions.
We haven't given specific long term margins for our healthcare exchange business but we have said that it's one of the best return on capital opportunities across the firm.
Obviously the profile of this investment is were making significant investments on behalf of clients upfront and we expect to return that overtime.
And lastly on the buyback the source of fund so I just wonder could you remind us like how much of your cash (indiscernible) was sitting in the U.S.
versus international and how do you funded the buyback and through like increasing through like debt or from operating cash flow from the U.S.
operations? Yes so as we think about our cash flow we really have a central sort of treasury operation it's a combined cash pool thats a result of our moving to the UK in April 2012 and so we really think about it as a common cash pool.
If you look at how much of the share repurchase was funded from cash and short term investments on the balance sheet you saw at year-end 2013 cash and short term investments were about a $1 billion and it has come down to 678 million and so that gives you a sense that 322 million roughly came off the balance sheet.
So that was a significant portion of the share repurchase contribution.
I dont know if answered every part of your question? Yes so if I just wonder of these the share buyback has to use the cash available in the U.S.
right? Yes we dont think about it like that we have a globe cash pool.
I just wanted to get an idea of the investment profile that youve been talking about in HR Solutions and just sort of is that in people or is that in technology or infrastructure and sort of how does the level of investment is being made this year compared to 2012 or 2013 when we think about how that business and that investment is ramping up overtime? our team in HR Solutions has really taken a broad based view around very important topics retirement pension health rewards talent et cetera and made very substantial investments on the investment consulting side and what were doing there in pensions very very substantial set of investments in addition to the investments that we talked about on this call around the health exchanges and on the talent reward side.
So it's really a broad brush based set of investments with a specific set -- I guess a specific set of criteria starting with how do we help clients succeed and then against the return on invested capital  I guess my question is when you say those investments I mean are those people are those teams being hired or is that infrastructure and technology? Like Im just trying to understand when you say investment are you referring to the people youre putting in since it's such a people heavy business or is this technology and infrastructure type investments? It's mostly people.
It's also technology and infrastructure so if you think about the healthcare exchange business it's people it's process and it is a significant amount of technology in the platform to run a scale and so but the majority of the investment is people to service clients and thats exactly what were doing and so as we think about the client growth each year the underlying expense size is going to increase because were serving far more clients in talent [ph] in 2014 than we did in 2013.
But as we said the profitability is improving each year and the return on capital is improving each year.
And then just one other question on compensation overall normally first quarter seems to be a higher compensation quarter on a relative basis and the compensation growth seemed a bit lower this year and I was just wondering if there is anything that has gone into that or any change on the compensation make up corporate wide? Yes so as we think about our compensation programs corporate wide we put in place a number of years ago as Greg described aligning our compensation programs with performance as delivered to shareholders whether thats operating income growth year-over-year or whether thats cumulative EPS growth or free cash flow growth and they have -- compensation programs have not changed over the last couple of years.
We think they have aligned management incentives with shareholder returns and therefore we have kept them stable.
Was there any benefit to the level of compensation for the company from the restructuring program? I mean I guess given the returns and the hurdles you guys have hit I would have expected compensation growth to sort of stay more in-line with last year as opposed to the growth slowdown thats all Im trying to understand.
I mean we obviously as we invested in restructuring we did get a return in terms of reduced compensation from those programs but were balancing investments in restructuring both in investments and organic ideas for the business with all of our other opportunities for investing across Aon and so I wouldnt say thats particularly out of line with trends in previous years.
I just want to say to everyone thank you very much for participating with us today.
We look forward to the call next quarter.
Thanks very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Plcs Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in todays call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results of those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our second quarter results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
Consistent with previous quarters Id like to cover three areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
And third continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics each quarter we measure our performance against the four metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the second quarter organic revenue growth was 2% overall highlighted by solid growth in our international retail brokerage and HR outsourcing businesses.
Operating margin decreased 30 basis points as continued improvement in Risk Solutions was more than offset by unfavorable currency and an anticipated decline in HR Solutions.
EPS increased 13% to $1.25 reflecting underlying operational improvement a lower effective tax rate and strong share repurchase.
Finally free cash flow increased 5% as solid underlying working capital performance was partially offset by higher cash taxes.
Overall our second quarter results reflect continued underlying progress in effective capital management marking the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth despite industry and foreign currency headwinds.
Were returning a record amount of capital to shareholders thats highlighted by a return of $1.4 billion of capital through the first 6 months of 2014.
While continuing to make strategic investments that will drive greater long-term growth strong free capital generation and increase financial flexibility.
Turning to slide 4 on the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 1% reflecting solid growth in retail brokerage partially offset by an anticipated decline in reinsurance.
As we discussed previously were driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solution segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage.
With management of our renewal booked portfolio through client promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average highlighting strong client satisfaction in retail brokerage.
New business generation of $280 million across our retail business highlighted by record new business in US retail and double digit new business growth in most markets across Asia and Latin America.
Investments in innovative technology and service capabilities with the growth of GRIP and Aon Broking delivering increased operational leverage.
And in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 13 consecutive quarters.
An outstanding performance in todays changing marketplace that reflects Aon Benfields long-term value proposition for clients.
Booking on data analytics and the application of excess capital in the industry to previously uninsured risks.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions in the Americas organic revenue growth was 2%.
Exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact on pricing was flat to modestly negative; weve all seen continued stable market impact.
We saw growth across all regions U.S retail Latin America and Canada including continued growth across all major businesses property casualty health and benefits and Affinity.
In U.S.
retail we saw solid growth turned by record levels of new business generation and strengthening in construction.
In International organic revenue growth was 3% similar to the prior year quarter.
Exposures are stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by continued softness in many regions across Europe.
Results reflect strong growth across Asia and emerging markets driven by double-digit new business generation in many countries with solid growth in a number of other markets mainly New Zealand Italy and the Netherlands.
In Continental Europe weve continued to deliver solid growth against sustained economic and market headwinds driven by strong management of our renewable portfolio.
And while economic conditions still remain relatively fragile across many core markets; we continue to see signs of economic stabilization throughout the region.
In reinsurance as we noted on previous calls we expect macro factors to be a headwind in 2014.
Overall organic revenue growth was minus 4% and in-line with expectations.
Results reflected anticipated unfavorable market impact in treaty and a decline in faculty replacements which tend to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
We saw strong growth in our capital markets transaction advisory business as I mentioned earlier positive net new business for the 13th consecutive quarter in treaty placements.
As weve noted previously reinsurance capital is at an all time high and seasons are retaining more risk driving an expected negative market impact most notably in the US but have an impact globally.
Absent in an event in the industry macro factors are expected to continue to be a significant headwind for the balance of 2014 with results lumpy quarter-to-quarter given the timing of growth and faculty replacements on our capital markets transactions and advisory business.
Turning to HR Solutions overall organic revenue growth was 2% similar to the prior year quarter with growth in both consulting and outsourcing.
Underlined performance in the second quarter reflects growth in areas where were making significant investments in the business including pension risk and delegated investment solutions.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitts client leadership understanding an influence of market trends and the long-term issues that face our clients.
As healthcare reform healthcare costs and the associated financial risks continues to rise at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving; multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at the local level.
Managing and transferring risk against pension schemes are increasingly frozen and largely underfunded.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 1% a solid performance against the strong comparable of 6% growth in the prior year quarter.
Underlying results reflect solid growth in U.S.
retirement primarily from investment consulting and delegated pension management services.
As long as growth and talent solutions which is benefiting from M&amp;A and IPO activity.
Results were partially offset by a modest decline in retirement in Continental Europe.
Now onto Q1 results include an anticipated unfavorable timing of revenue in compensation consulting that will be recognized in the second half of the year.
For the full year we continue to expect low to mid-single digit organic growth across consulting services.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 3% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
Growth reflects new client wins and benefits administration the projected revenue driven by demand for discretionary services.
For the full year we would expect stronger organic growth in outsourcing when taking into consideration of seasonality of revenue recognition in the healthcare changes in Q4.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic areas of investment.
Aon has a unique and strong track record of developing innovative solutions to help solve problems and create differentiated value in response to specific client needs.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include in Risk Solutions were investing in client leadership with the international rollout of the Revenue Engine and Client Promise to drive greater productivity and efficiency.
Were investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the worlds leading global database of risk and insurance placement information now capturing 2.1 million trades and a $108 billion of bound premium.
We continue to have a growing list of more than 30 insurance carriers; utilizing platform for its analytics and services capabilities and increasing number of clients are also adding strategic consulting services.
In addition were driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk as highlighted by our ability to package similar risks and place substantial programs and facilities into the market on behalf of clients.
We continue to align our global health and benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
Furthermore were developing analytics to create globally consistent actuarial valuation and benchmarking models for health and other employer sponsored benefits.
Were also investing in the further development of data and analytics capability at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading value proposition and client-serving capability.
A great example of this is our Impact Forecasting Center the only catastrophe modeling center integrated into our global reinsurance broker.
Another example of this is Freddie Mac where were bringing insurance capital to bear against mortgage risk in the U.S.
Finally were expanding our footprint through over $500 million of tuck-in acquisitions so far in 2014 that either increased scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients.
Year-to-date weve completed seven acquisitions in the areas including flood employee benefits and consultancy spread in multiple geographies including the U.S.
UK and the Pacific region.
In HR Solutions we continue to invest and innovate solutions in high growth areas.
Were expanding solutions to de-risk pension plans and are seeing tremendous growth in our delegated investment solutions which fulfill our clients needs for faster execution of their investment strategies.
Were also providing a broader set of advisory and advocacy solutions to our clients employees to enable greater choice and improve decision making under retirement options especially important is regulatory changes around the world require more involvement from individuals.
We continue to make significant investments to support future growth and strengthen our industry leading position in health exchanges for active employees and retirees.
As part of our comprehensive portfolio of health solutions covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies.
As we progress through the sales cycle we feel good about the pipeline.
Were focusing on client and employee satisfaction during the upcoming global period.
And we would anticipate a solid mix of both new and existing clients with a broader range of industries participating.
We look forward to updating you on our progress later this year when our primary sales cycles has ended.
We also continue to invest in our industry leading benefits and administration solutions and technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions and cloud based outsourcing solutions.
And finally were strengthening our international footprint to support our global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
In summary our second quarter results reflect strong earnings growth of 13% including growth in each segment underlying operational improvement and effective capital management despite challenges from both foreign currency translation and market impact.
Were firmly on track to deliver continued growth across each segment operational improvements and returns on investments.
And significantly increase financial strength in 2014.
With that said Im now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Thank you so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our second quarter results reflect underlying operational improvement double-digit earnings growth for the fourth consecutive quarter and effective allocation of capital highlighted by the repurchase of 650 million of ordinary shares in Q2.
I would note this is more share repurchase than weve done in any quarter since 2008 reflecting our long-term belief and the strengthening free cash flow of the firm.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding non-cash intangible asset amortization increased 13% to a $1.25 per share for the second quarter compared to a $1.11 in the prior year quarter.
Results from the quarter reflect underlying operational improvement a lower effective tax rate and strong share repurchase.
In addition foreign currency translation had a $0.03 unfavorable impact on EPS in the quarter due primarily to a weaker dollar versus the British pound.
Its currency to remain stable at todays rates we would expect a similar unfavorable impact in both Q3 and Q4.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 1% operating margin increased 20 basis points to 22.7% and operating income increased 1% versus the prior year quarter.
Margin expansion in the quarter was driven by modest organic revenue growth return on investments and underlying expense discipline partially offset by a $15 million or minus 80 basis points unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding foreign currency adjusted operating income increased 5% and operating margin increased 100 basis points.
Let me spend a moment on the formal restructuring programs key initiatives that have enabled concurrent funding of investments and long-term structural margin expansion.
Under the Aon Hewitt program approximately $99 million of estimated savings will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $88 million of the cumulative savings have been achieved under the program to-date with the remaining $11 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
We have incurred a 100% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings.
Overall in the second quarter we delivered solid underlying operating performance in Risk Solutions despite challenges from foreign currency translation and an unfavorable market impact in reinsurance demonstrating solid underlying progress as we generate returns on our investments and manage expenses.
For the first six months Risk Solutions margins were up 70 basis points including a minus 40 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign currency placing us firmly on track for margin improvement for the full year and continued progress towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solution segment organic revenue growth was 2% operating margin decreased 170 basis points to 13.2% and operating income decreased 8% versus the prior year quarter.
Modest organic revenue growth and restructuring savings in the quarter were more than offset by an anticipated increase in expense to support future growth in our healthcare exchange business.
We also had an unfavorable impact from timing of certain revenue in our consulting business similar to Q1.
In our second quarter results were exactly in-line with expectations and managements guidance previously provided to the HR Solutions business.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program approximately $294 million of the $303 million in total cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with the remaining $9 million to be achieved by the end of 2014.
As discussed previously we provided commentary regarding the outlook for the HR Solution segment in 2014 and that outlook is unchanged.
For HR Solutions in 2014 we expect to  number one deliver organic growth number two generate greater scale and improved returns from investments; three deliver remaining savings and related to the restructuring programs; and four deliver greater than mid-single digits operating income growth and further margin expansions towards our long-term target of 22%.
Overall we are firmly on track for greater than mid-single digits operating income growth in 2014 with Q1 and Q2 down as expected.
We expect to be up in the second half of the year with the patterning unchanged relatively flat in Q3 and up substantially in Q4 related to strong organic growth driven by healthcare exchanges.
Now let me discuss a few of the light items outside of the operating segments on slide 9.
Unallocated expenses decreased $3 million to $41 million interest income was similar at $2 million interest expense increased $17 million due to an increase in total debts outstanding in the second quarter and cost associated with certain derivative hedging programs.
Other expenses $2 million primarily including $5 million of net losses due to unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates on the re-measurement of assets and liabilities in nonfunctional currencies partially offset by gains on certain long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately a million dollars per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $66 million interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 17.5% compared to 26.4% in the prior year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2014 was favorably impacted by changes in geographic distribution of income and certain discrete items.
As previously noted potential unfavorable discrete tax adjustments in the second half of 2014 could cause the effective tax rate for the full year 2014 to be higher in the 18.3% effective tax rate reported in the first half of 2014.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to $301.6 million in the second quarter compared to $317.1 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased $7.4 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $650 million in the second quarter.
The company has 1.6 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on June 30th were $291 million and there are approximately $8 million additional diluted equivalence.
Estimated Q3 2014 beginning diluted share count is approximately 299 million subject to share price movements share insurance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow on page 10.
At June 30th 2014 cash and short-term investments were $726 million.
Total debt outstanding was approximately $6 billion and overall debt-to-capital increased to $43.6 billion at June 30th compared to 37.4% at March 31st driven by an increase in total debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
However I would note that at June 30th the company held $681 million as a deposit with the trustee included in other current assets in the balance sheet which was used subsequent to the close of the quarter to repay $681 million of notes due July 1st.
Following this repayment total debt outstanding was approximately $5.3 billion and overall debt-to-capital was 40.6%.
Cash and short-term investments remain at $726 million.
In Q2 cash flow from operations increased 3% to $344 million driven primarily by solid underlying working capital performance partially offset by higher cash taxes and organic revenue growth.
Free cash flow as defined from cash flows from operations less CapEx increased 5% to $284 million in the second quarter driven by an increase in cash flow from operations and a $2 million decrease in CapEx.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on a free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are three primary areas that will contribute to our goal of doubling free cash flow to more than 2.3 billion annually within the next three to five years.
From the graph in the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by over $600 million over the next five years based only on a reduction in cash use of pensions and restructuring.
Combined with growth in the goal business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate we are well on track to achieve our expectations with a substantial cash flow generations.
Regarding our underfunded pension plan we have taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as weve close plans for new entrants both in plants from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly a $138 million to $385 million in 2014 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring plans cash payments were a $152 million in 2013 as all charges related to restructuring program have now been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $54 million to approximately $98 million in 2014 and continue to decline significantly each year thereafter.
In summary we delivered strong earnings growth and underlying operational improvement in the second quarter.
We are firmly on track to generate more than $2.3 billion of annual free cash flow over the next three to five years.
Combined with a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we continue to strengthen the firm through significant shareholder value creation in 2014 and beyond.
With that Id like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And our first question comes from Elyse Greenspan from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I was first hoping to start off just in terms of more commentary in terms of the reinsurance market it just seems like a sharp shift to go from the 3% growth you saw last quarter to the 4% decline this quarter and I know the competitive dynamics have seemed to intensified a bit if you can just talk about whats specifically changed in the second quarter a little bit more and then also in terms of an outlook for the balance of the year would you look for a similar decline in about that 4% range; I know you mentioned some one-time items that are  to negatively impact that number in the quarter? Couple of thoughts on this.
First lets think about sort of the evolution on the reinsurance side it has been  weve talked about weve been talking about this last couple of years is we talked about first more capital in the industry were an all-time high little over $550 billion at the end of Q1 14 and against that we knew that there would be pressure and pressure movement on price and there certainly has been and again largely as expected.
A little maybe more in this quarter as we said before there is a little bit of lumpiness looking back at the business but we expect to be offset to the balance of the year.
So generally as we said before overall pressure in the overall market what we would also highlight though as weve been talking about  look at the end of this day this is really about helping match capital with client need and while this brings about some challenges it also brings about lots of different opportunities as you think about some of the opportunities in the insurance linked security world and the cap on world really bringing capital and do things we havent done before as weve have done with Freddie Mac the example I gave in my commentary.
So we would say that on balance there is pressure no doubt.
There will continue to be pressure on the second half of the year but it also marks with an opportunity.
For the first time ever we are starting to see the retentions which were going up start to actually stabilize as clients see more opportunity they have seen before to actually utilize our reinsurance capital.
So we see the market pressure.
I would continue to put in context though if we look at our overall Risk Solution business and in the context of our Risk Solutions business we finished the first half of the year with the market pressure and with the FX pressure having grown the business increased margin and we fully expect that to continue.
We believe as much conviction now we had at the beginning of the year but our team will finish the year with organic growth and Risk Solutions and with margin expansion Risk Solution irrespective of the other pieces.
So thats roughly where we are.
Okay thank you.
And then in terms of the share repurchase we saw the level remained kind of elevated from where you trended last year and the first two quarters of this year and then in the second quarter I know you guys did issue some incremental debt on so I was wondering how that played into your decision surrounding share repurchases and where you would kind of look for that number on a quarterly basis from here? So as always the least we evaluate all forms of capital usage based on return on capital share repurchase was high in the first half but it will be in the second half due to incremental leverage in Q2 as you said we did you know raise that quite substantially.
And we also utilized cash from the balance sheet at year end 2013.
And so those two things really meant that our share purchase in the first half will be much higher than the second half.
We are leveraging the opportunity as we grow free cash flow to continue to deploy capital in the highest return opportunities for shareholders and share repurchase remains the highest ROIC usage.
As cash flow continues to grow youll expect us to redeploy capital on our return on capital basis.
Okay thank you.
And one last question in terms of a tax rate I know you guys mentioned last quarter about 200 to 300 basis points benefit from discreet adjustments was the level the same this quarter.
And then also if were looking at a quarterly basis are there any quarters that we tend to potentially have a higher tax rate to exude as a revenue for instance when the healthcare exchange business comes on in the fourth quarter will we potentially see the tax rates just from that business coming on kind of kick up in the fourth quarter? As we think about the tax rate Elyse for the full year 2014 what I would say is our first half 2014 tax rate was 18.3%.
As we discussed in Q1 we do expect potential unfavorable discreet tax adjustments in the second half of 2014 could cause the rate to be higher for the full year 2014.
Were not giving specific items for full year 2014 what we can say is full year 2013 rate had 200 to 300 basis points unfavorable impact from discreet items.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And then our next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America your line is open.
Yes thank you.
You talked about some timing issues in the HR Solutions business which hurt the revenue comparison should help in the second half can you quantify that? So as we think about it was really on the consulting side Jay it was in our compensation consulting business.
And it really decreased organic revenue growth in both Q1 and Q2.
And so if you normalize that consulting organic revenue growth it would be somewhere around 3% to 4% in both Q1 and Q2 and what youll see Jay is that will show up in the second half of the year.
And so if we think about our consulting organic revenue growth for the full year its really in the low to mid-single digit organic revenue growth its exactly where we think it should be.
And its really is a patterning issue between Q1 and Q2 in the second half of the year.
Thats helpful.
And then secondly you guys have done a good job of de-risking the pension obligations but we have had a drop in interest rates.
Have you done enough work so that drop in interest rates this year shouldnt have a big impact on your pension expense going forward? As we think about pension expense Jay we definitely think that pension expense for 2014 is immaterial and we expect that to continue.
In terms of the work weve done in our pension plans they certainly are closed theyre frozen and theyre de-risked.
As you know we measure our pension liabilities at year end for 12-31-2014 and at that point well look at asset returns discount rates and locality are the three biggest drivers.
Pension expense rise is a lot less volatile as a result of the closed and frozen and all the work weve done on our pension plans.
Right thanks Christa.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Vinay Misquith form Evercore your line is open.
Hi good morning.
The first is could you give us some color on the slowdown in the organic revenue growth in the risk in insurance segment in the Americas? Yeah sort of back up is we didnt go to the overall instead of putting in the overall commentary.
We saw organic growth in the Americas on the retail side were actually at 2% very very strong in business generation in the U.S.
retail for example a record levels of new business generation.
So really overall across the property and casualty health benefits in Affinity we saw growth U.S.
retail Latin America and Canada.
So from our standpoint we have very strong prior year comp our view is the years progressing very very fine from a retail risk standpoint and we expect the year to finish well also.
And again if you step back and look at the sort of overall Risk Solutions our risk business more than offset some of the challenges on the reinsurance side we talked about it.
For us it just reflects what Aons all about; were an incredibly diverse business geographically product client segment etcetera.
And that showed up in the first half of the year on the Risk Solution side as well as showed up in the Americas too.
What do you think should be the normalized organic growth in the Americas? Yeah weve essentially talked about low to mid single-digits overall and thats roughly how we see things will be playing out.
And was last years second half very strong and so should we see a slight slowdown versus last years second half? Yeah I would  plus or minus.
If you look at this over the course of a year so from us again I would say for the year low to mid single-digits and thats roughly what weve been able to achieve.
I would also say as weve invested in the business or able to actually improve margin at lower levels of growth weve got more leverage operating leverage in the business.
So thats why were comfortable as we look at Risk Solutions overall to say were going to grow organically and were going to improve margins in the face headwinds we talked about before.
Its an evolving business and our belief a stronger business than it was a year ago and a year before that.
Okay great.
The follow-up is on margins in that segment so those improved I believe 60 basis points for the first six months if you exclude the restructuring savings and if you exclude the FX headwinds.
Do you think that pace of margin expansion can increase over time if your organic growth picks up a little bit? Heres what I would say we think about Risk Solutions margin for the first half of the year is 70 basis points because we certainly include the restructuring savings because weve worked very hard to achieve those.
And included in the 70 basis points was negative 40 basis points of FX impacts for the first half of the year so underlying operational margin expansion of 110 basis points for the first half of the year.
As we look at the second half of the year we see that the FX impact on Risk Solutions margin will remain similar at minus 40 basis points.
And we do believe that well drive Risk Solutions margin expansion with the full year driven by the investments weve made in GRIP and the return theyre getting.
Aon Broking and continue to expense discipline.
And we do believe well drive Risk Solutions margin expansion to full year 2014 and on track for our 26% long-term Risk Solutions target.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS your line is open.
Hi a couple of questions.
First Greg I was hoping you could expand a little bit on whats going on with the corporate healthcare exchanges is and just what the pipeline is looking like I know you kind of gave us couple of comments.
And then specifically how its going on with the corporate with respect to the Medicare and how thats going as well? Overall this is we feel very good about the pipeline.
As I emphasized before for us its very much about focusing on clients employee satisfaction as we go into Q4 enrolment.
So thats been absolute focus of our team were very excited about some of the progress there thatll be our priority but against that backdrop pipelines been exceptional.
And by the way a very solid mix of new and existing clients were very pleased with the industry breadth its a much much broader mix and continues to broaden.
Were also pleased with the fact that over half the clients were seeing are new in our cost of profits.
So for us we feel really good about the pipeline as I said before were looking forward to updating you all later in the year once we complete the enrolment the sales cycle I should say.
But net-net we feel very very good about the overall progress.
And then on the retiree side also equally positive weve got to value proposition that is literally really focused on the retiree and exactly what theyre experience is like.
And we invest heavily to sort of make that happen as a result of that valued proposition; weve been very privileged to be able to serve some of the largest including the largest client in this space.
And so for us that value proposition were truly focusing on the retiree experience and has proved out very very well.
So we would say another quarter of continued progress on the exchange front recognizing by the way as we said before Brian the exchange world fits into a much broader world today on Hewitt when you think about what we do on the benefit side 7.5 million active employers in our Ben Admin business and another 2 million retirees sort of in the Ben-Admin business.
So its a business we know well now augmented and reinforced by what were doing on the exchange front so thats the background.
And on that topic are you still seeing a pricing pressure in the Benefit Administration business? We are Brian and its very much what we expected its slightly less than what we experienced last year.
So its mitigated slightly but we expect that trend to continue.
Great and last question Im just curious.
On the reinsurance business as theres more and more of the capital markets activity that kind of picks up here is that going to have a long-term depressing effect on your margins in net business? As we step back  its in a day for us it really is about bringing capitals to bear on client needs.
And as we said before we dont think about the sort of product or product basis which is why in the end we invest behind this business and are very strong believers in the opportunity for our clients in this business.
Its why were number one in treaty number one in facultative number one  in the cap on insurance link security world.
We think all the whole compliment as you bring it to bear on behalf of clients it creates potential great client value.
Our view is recurring client value you know our compensation will take care of itself overtime.
Even though youve got sort of inter digital moves on specific product areas up and down some recurring some not recurring all the pieces that go into that.
Our view is the opportunity here is substantial.
Even equally exciting is the fact that we see opportunities to really move beyond its just the core demand.
So the things were doing bringing capital to bear in areas as I described before in the mortgage arena in the U.S.
were really excited about.
Were excited for our clients so for us were very optimistic about the business long-term and feel like the opportunity to serve clients and create value for them is quite high.
And our capability against that demand is also quite strong based on all my colleagues leadership so were optimistic and we dont think about it product by product.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Barnes from Jamie your line is open.
Great.
Thanks for taking my call.
I just had a couple of questions.
You guys recently closed on a flood acquisition just wondering if you guys could give any parameters there or maybe the size of the transaction.
And maybe also the margins because I know one of your competitors recently purchased the flood company and very strong margins in that business.
So personally just a technical thing we have signed but we have not completed closing yet.
And we havent disclosed the price but I think were very proud of the content and capabilities that weve acquired to deliver value to clients and Greg you may want to talk more about the actual acquisition.
Yeah I think again just another example of sort of building capability in content in area we know well and we like our great deal.
So this is really is a group thats going to strengthen our ability by outsourcing services really flood placement and claims to insurance carriers.
Its part of a broad range set of programs.
So were very excited about it and feel like its going to add content and capability in terms of sort of what were doing.
It is in  back to the context weve completed seven acquisitions in 2014 again all of these have the same theme.
How do we strengthen content capability or broaden our geographic footprint to the extent that strengthens content capability.
And NFS National Flood Services were just one example around that.
Okay and then lastly you guys mentioned that there was a higher cash tax payment was the headwind for free cash flow just wanted to figure out what caused that.
And should that be should we expect that to go away going forward? Yeah I would describe that as just lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
And it really is a timing item related to prior years.
And so I would not expect that to continue.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields from KBW.
Your line is open.
Greg you talked about a number of areas Im thinking like US retail that is doing very well in terms of generating growth.
Are the areas that are underperforming are they  have they been consistent over the past year or so or is there some sort of shift? Yeah wed say from our standpoint yet again one of the things that that were very proud of and were excited about is really the global capability of Aon.
And you may think about  were in many respects were a global focus group were in every country in the world 122 countries.
We serve a range of all the segments large medium size or smaller all types of sectors all types of clients etcetera.
And that really does Meyer in our respect sort of clear the level of stability that we think from an investor standpoint should be a very much a positive for you.
So things have been flown some areas strong in some respects loss in other respects you think about it 2.5 and three years ago we were talking about the strength of Europe and weakness of the U.S.
and now thats kind of shifted when you look at underlined insured values.
Little strong in the U.S.
dollar little weaker in Europe it really does create for us a truly stable relative stable set of opportunities.
Its why as we reflect on the year and the progress for the first six months we feel very good about the progress its very consistent we thought it would be.
We push through the first six months grown improved margins  context of an up and down market you could pick any specific area around the world but wed essentially as Christa described we increased margin by 70 basis points including 40 points of FX so thats over 100 basis points improvement.
So for us certain things do have a flow if anything stays down for a long time you can expect  but overall feel really good about Risk Solutions and some of the progress were going to be able to make.
Okay thanks.
And Christa when you look at the intangible asset amortization schedule so there were increases in the forecast for Risk Solutions in 2015 and beyond really is that related to the flood acquisition or is that a change in sort of anticipated future acquisitions.
Yes.
No its not related to flood acquisitions; weve not yet closed that.
It is related to other acquisitions that weve made in the first half of the year as Greg described.
Okay but there are no when you put up this number.
This doesnt anticipate acquisitions that havent been closed yet? No it does not.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Klauber from William Blair Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The growth in consulting expenses in the first six months how much of that growth would you attribute to the healthcare exchange investment.
And can you give us more of a detail idea what that investment is actually going to? Overall a large portion of the expense investment really is bringing online a number of our clients on the healthcare exchange sides as we said before.
And it really is going to match the sort of  it really is across overall Aon Hewitt as we think about sort of what were doing.
It was what Im describing so thats the biggest part of the investment across Aon Hewitt in the second quarter getting prepared for year end.
Okay.
Another question in HR Solutions I know in the past youve talked about  youve had some success helping helping corporations de-risk retentions.
How does the pipeline look to do more of this type of transactions? Yes we said before  and Chris can talk about this as a client as well in terms of what weve been able to do but its more than a little success.
Weve actually had substantial success.
One of the exciting parts about what were doing on the consulting from a growth stand point really is our retirement business really across the board.
And thats in delegated investment solutions investment consulting overall but also a sort of pension de-risk involved thats really has been quite exceptional.
And so weve got a broad range of clients as we said before all of whom have the issue around making sure they need their obligations for employees but do it in a way that that helps them address obviously the capital challenge the expense challenges and the substantial volatility challenges which come with that which is  and our teams just done an exceptional job there and thats why weve dealt so well in this space.
How is the pipeline of business going forward there is hows that looking? Well it turns out if you travel the world its really strong.
If you travel the world theres still a whole range of underfunded pension funds that have to be addressed by companies.
And there the priority for them is as high as ever around trying to get that done.
And we see tremendous opportunity in that going forward.
And one of the other things wed say is that the pace of regulatory changes is accelerating and thats creating opportunities to work with our clients on the impacts of their pension plans.
The U.S.
the UK and Canada have all had recent regulatory changes proposed or implemented.
And were addressing areas such as the pension risk as Greg described lump sum windows liability driven asset allocations and planned designs.
And I can certainly say as a client its one of the best parts of the Aon Hewitt acquisition is having the team of  from AON Hewitt actually help us navigate through our pension challenges and theyve done an exceptional job.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome from Sandler ONeill.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
And thanks for the call.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about your financial leverage as we look out over the next couple of years and maybe the relationship between coverage ratios.
And it looks like  you tell meif Im wrong that you would probably be raising more debt as the pension liability goes down as well.
Is that fair assessment? Yeah so Paul we would say that we certainly as we grow EBITDA and grow free cash flow we do expect to sort of grow leverage overtime.
And obviously as the pension on some of the liability comes down that creates further opportunity.
Were very proud of the fact that were able to take advantage of the market and increase leverage during the quarter.
And in particular do 550 million of that 800 million U.S.
debt placement at 30 year which is managing liquidity in a very good way for shareholders.
And so we will continue to manage our current investment grade rating its very important to us for our clients and for the future financial flexibility around leverage and coverage ratios to ensure that we continue to manage those.
As you said as free cash flow and EBITDA grows and then as the lumps on pension liability comes down we expect to increase leverage over the coming years.
And then just to be careful on the reinsurance fund separately last quarter I think you said that you expected organic growth for reinsurance for the year to be sort of flat to positive is that outlook changed? Yeah I think from our standpoint as we reflect sort of think about through the where pricing was market pressure was sort of in the mid-term renewals we would see slightly more negative than that at this point in time just given where things have played out but we still step back and say to be really clear in the Risk Solutions overall that has it essentially we are going to grow that as organically across the board and improve margin.
And so this is really back to a question from before sort of our overall portfolio at some point of time well be talking about the robustness of the reinsurance and pressures elsewhere at this point little more pressure than we expected but not unmanageable and we expect as I said have growth in Risk Solutions throughout the year with improve margins.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Greg maybe  kind of trying to square you mentioned North America new business is very strong and you talked about retention there it looked like organic though organic was 2% that was little bit less than kind of we are looking for so I am just trying to square lower organic growth with your really strong new business and that return to mid years maybe theres a plug missing there? Thanks.
There isnt too much  again theres not that much of a difference in terms of the overall sort of decline as youre describing a point but we look at a couple of things as we lay them out Michael one is we are the underlined sort of whats the good quality whats going on in the business and thats what wed say before new business was as all time high.
It was up substantial it was up substantially.
Renewals were also strong.
When you look at something called rollover which is literally not just retaining the client retaining the business but also how much is bought or what it looks like and if you think about that thats  with the rollovers decline slightly.
If you look at pricing overall we basically look at exposure times rate that gets you to something we call market impact.
And market impact it was down a bit not hugely but if you think about last four quarters just to be precise and we cant with GRIPs.
So this is exactly whats reflected in our system its actually or cross our entire system Ill just go in that direction.
We were 0.83 in Q3 2013.
In Q4 2013 0.92 in Q1 2014 0.24 and we are down a little bit in Q2 2014 so roughly at the same place.
So in essence were seeing a bit more of marketing that is not substantial its not like we are seeing on the reinsurance side but its there and sort of affects overall performance.
Got it.
And I guess you mentioned GRIP a bit there as well and I am just curious over this period of time where weve seen some softness particularly on the reinsurance side how much has your insurer take up a GRIP increased.
I would imagine that potentially as insurance companies are maybe more aggressive about trying to get business that platforms like GRIP could see bigger takeaway have you seen any of that corresponding or is it been sort of a continuation of an adoption trend that you saw two years ago or something like that? Its been a continued trend.
We havent tried to push it what we do is with GRIP its very clear weve got more than 30 markets where we are fully engaged on the GRIP platform now.
This is very much around matching their capital with client need.
Obviously we guarantee nothing but we do as we put them in a position where they can actually add value to our clients than a more prcised and sustaining way and that actually creates significant opportunity for them.
Thats the value of proposition behind GRIP.
Thats worked very very well continues to work very well and our carriers get we believe tremendous value out of it because our clients get tremendous value out of it.
So from our standpoint we continue to grow the business we continue to add on the wise component around it to truly help carriers add value not just in areas around coverage new laws what they provide at the marketplace.
So from our standpoint we are very pleased with the progress of GRIP it continues and we think its a way to use data and analytics to help clients make choices would be different and our markets bring things to  on behalf of clients that are different.
And so for us its been positive we think that will continue.
And how relevant of a tool is that to potentially offset the negative impact of pricing in certain markets as far as your margins are concerned? Well from our standpoint as Christa said the margin improvement for Aon is really a function of weve created greater operating leverage for our business and weve done it through Aon Broking and all the things we do as far as we think about our pricing premium on behalf of clients.
Weve done it through GRIP weve done it through expense reduction.
And so from our standpoint all things sort of contribute to this.
These are fundamental investments to change the way we go about the business and in turn help our clients and in turn Aon improved margins at lower overall growth.
And so in the end for us thats why we believe this is really an opportunity to see our investments pay off and its why as I said before Risk Solutions we believe will organically we will improve margins in the face of whatever where the headwinds are out there.
Specifically now to your question the biggest driver one of the biggest drivers of margin improvements going to be is going to be component like GRIP.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh [indiscernible] from Deloitte.
Excuse me.
[indiscernible] from Deloitte now.
Hello everyone how are you? Hey Josh we will get that name right.
No worries no worries.
Maybe  look I understand that Christa is not going to give any guidance around the discreet tax movements but maybe you could educate me a little bit on cash taxes versus GAAP taxes.
And are the numbers coming through on tax and related to cash paid and there is some a steadier number if we looked on a GAAP basis or incurred basis I am no tax expert but maybe you can teach me a little bit? Yeah so heres what I would say Josh as you think about the cash taxes we are paying you really need to look at it over multi-year period of time because a lot of what we are paying out in cash taxes today a resolutions of prior years.
And so there always is going to be a lag between what gets reported in GAAP taxes and whats gets reported in cash taxes.
So I hope that helps.
Net-net can you tell me if the deferred tax liability on the balance sheet is rising as you have these low tax quarters? I actually  I am not sure I can answer that question? Okay.
Well that was my only question.
I appreciate it thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
Just pulling off the tax you said the  in 2013 the effective tax rates 200 to 300 basis points higher if you exclude the unfavorable discrete items so to that point the underlying tax rate about 22% and in the first half with all these discrete items your tax rate is 18% I just wonder if you look back and see the downside to the UK your tax rate at that time is it like 28% you said you could improve more than 500 basis points by now are you already exceeding that target just wonder going forward will that 18% tax discrete item be a run rate or it could have been to improve further? Yeah so what we said at the time we moved to the UK in 2012 was originally more than 500 basis points so if you took a $0.29 is attractive 500 basis points you get $0.24 then you do more than 23 more than 22 which as you pointed out is roughly the underlying rate for 2013.
And really what we said for 2014 is that 18.3% which is the first half tax raise its more than likely that well expect unfavorable discrete tax adjustments in the second half that could cause the rate to be half of full year 2014.
And while we are not giving guidance for 14 the full year 2013 rate did have 200 to 300 basis points of unfavorable impacts from discrete items.
In terms of future year guidance which unfortunately at the time we are not giving out future year guidance.
Thanks for that.
And then on the acquisition it looks like its picking up a little bit so I think that 2010 can I just wonder have that changed your capital margin priority between buybacks and acquisitions? Absolutely not as we said earlier we evaluate all forms of capital usage based on return on capital share repurchase remains the highest return on capital usage for the company which is why you saw us do $650 million in Q2 and $1.25 billion of share repurchases in the first half of the year.
Its some of the highest about the share repurchase weve done in the companys history.
As Greg said weve actually returned $1.4 billion on capital through share repurchase and dividends in the first half of the year.
And really what you see us doing is for us to actually allocate capital M&amp;A it has to have a higher ROI seasoned share repurchase.
And we have done some fantastic concurrent capabilities to deliver to clients NFS  employee benefits certain terrific concurrent capabilities out there that have substantial return on capital associated with them but under no circumstances has our capital allocation process changed.
In this respect Kai what you really see is within the context of the exactly the priorities as Christa described our ability to actually return capital and actually strength of our business its pretty strong.
And highlight the sudden acquisitions really across the board in the UK New Zealand really in the U.S.
surely really across the board.
So our ability to strengthen the business and return substantial capital to share holders given our view on where we are on valuation and opportunity we think is actually quite high.
Thank you last question.
I just wondered if you could offer your opinion on the recent loadings on the ACA subsidiaries and what potential impact on the prior years tend to site? Yeah from our standpoint as we said before our focus really is on serving clients day in day out and doing it sort of on the private side.
We think the demand for that is actually quite high and will continue to be.
And by the way demand is function of clients just want to do the right thing on behalf of their employees and doing in a way that they they create greater transparency greater choice.
And really changes in behavior that actually hopefully improved health of their employees and in doing so actually strengthen the capability of companies to sort of fund that in a regional and productive way.
So thats our focus thats the area that Aon Hewitt spends all their waking hours thinking about as they think about exchanges as we said before.
Lot of other things we do across business and I am not going to comment sort of on the public sector input on that because in our view the private sector demand is going to be quite high and thats our focus.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Kai.
Thank you.
And at this time Im showing no further questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you our next question comes from [indiscernible] from Columbia Management.
Your line is open Thank you very much for fitting me in I appreciate that so just a follow up on Kais question.
So the normal and I know we cant really be precise about this but the normalized tax rate was something like 22% or 22.5% last year I think if I have right that the first half discreet items in the tax rate.
It sound like the normalized first half tax rate is something in the order of 21%.
My first question is that right and then secondly we are still seeing tax rate decreases when you measure your tax plans and guided to 500 basis points or more.
I guess there were certain activities you had in mind certain strategies you had in mind.
Have you essentially completed those activities or are there more things you can do? One moment please.
Sir please standby.
I think we lost connection with speaker.
Please standby.
Thank you for standing by we are instructed by the speakers that todays call has ended.
If you have any further questions do please contact them.
Again I do apologize todays conference call has ended for today.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reforms Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our third quarter results as well as have been posted to our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today is our CFO Christa Davies.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today and consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover 3 areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance and third continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3.
In the third quarter organic revenue growth was 3% overall driven by strong growth in HR Solutions.
Operating margin was flat.
A strong margin improvement in HR Solutions was offset by unfavorable impact from both revenue timing and foreign currency translation in Risk Solutions.
EPS increased 14% to $1.29 reflecting underlying operational improvement a lower effective tax rate and strong share repurchase.
Finally free cash flow was $704 million on a year-to-date basis as we head into our strongest cash flow quarter.
Overall in our seasonally weakest quarter results reflect double-digit earnings growth driven by underlying operational improvement and effective capital management.
In addition we've returned a record $2 billion of capital to shareholders through the first 9 months of 2014.
Turning to Slide 4 on the second topic of growth.
I'm going to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 1% reflecting growth across Retail Brokerage partially offset by an anticipated decline in Reinsurance and a $15 million unfavorable impact from timing.
As we discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of a renewal book through Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average highlighting strong client satisfaction in our retail business; new business generation of $216 [ph] million across our retail business highlighted by another quarter of strong new business in U.S.
retail; and double-digit new business growth in many markets across Asia and the EMEA region; increased operating leverage from our investments in innovative technology and client service capabilities with the growth of GRIP and Aon Broking.
And in our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have now been positive for 14 consecutive quarters an outstanding performance in today's changing marketplace that reflects Aon Benfield's long-term value proposition for clients focusing on data analytics and the application of excess capital in the industry to previously uninsured risks.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 2% against the strong comparable of 5% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact from pricing was flat resulting in continued stable market impact.
We saw strong growth across Latin America and in our U.S.
Affinity business.
New business continues to be strong across the region specifically in U.S.
retail.
Results in the quarter were partially offset by an $8 million of unfavorable timing across U.S.
retail and Canada that we expect to largely reverse itself as a benefit in Q4.
In international organic revenue growth was 2% similar to the prior year quarter.
Exposures were stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile conditions in many regions across Europe.
Results reflect strong growth across Asia driven by double-digit new business generation in many countries with solid growth in a number of other markets New Zealand Italy and France to name a few.
In Continental Europe we continue to deliver solid growth against sustained economic and market headwinds driven by strong management of our renewal book portfolio.
Results in the quarter were partially offset by $4 million of unfavorable timing.
Macro conditions remain relatively fragile across many core markets in Europe.
However despite uncertainty around economic recovery we continue to see signs of stabilization throughout this region in Q3.
In reinsurance.
As we noted on previous calls we expect macro factors to be a headwind in 2014.
Overall organic revenue growth was minus 4% against a strong comparable of 5% in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect a significant unfavorable market impact in treaty a decline in capital markets transactions and advisory business closing in the quarter and $3 million of unfavorable impact from timing.
We saw solid growth in facultative placements and as I mentioned earlier positive net new business for the 14th consecutive quarter in treaty placements.
In Q4 we expect organic revenue to improve modestly from Q3 driven by growth in our capital markets transactions and advisory business and a modest benefit from timing while treaty will continue to be pressured by negative market impact.
Overall across total Risk Solutions we're generating new business across the portfolio while absorbing market pressure in Reinsurance and unfavorable timing in Q3.
We expect stronger organic growth in the fourth quarter driven by new business growth in the Americas and a modest improvement in Reinsurance.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Organic revenue growth was 7% with growth in both consulting and outsourcing.
Included in third quarter results was an anticipated favorable impact from timing of revenue and compensation consulting.
This timing unfavorably impacts results in the first half of 2014.
Excluding this benefit underlying organic revenue for HR Solutions was 4% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
Underlying performance in the third quarter reflects growth in areas where we're making investments in the business including pension risk and delegated investment solutions.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding and influence of market trends and solutions to sustainably address the long-term issues that face our clients as health care reform health care costs and the associated financial risks continue to rise at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at the local level managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In consulting organic revenue growth was 14%.
As previously noted the quarter includes an anticipated favorable impact from timing of revenue in compensation consulting.
Excluding this benefit underlying organic revenue growth for consulting was 6% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter.
Underlying results reflect strong growth in U.S.
retirement primarily for investment consulting.
We saw an increase in demand for project work to help clients address lump sum windows and for actuarial services on defined benefit plans to support clients facing regulatory changes specifically the recently passed Highway Bill.
For the full year we continue to expect mid-single-digit organic growth across Consulting Services.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 3% compared to minus 1% in the prior year quarter.
Growth primarily reflects new client wins in benefits administration and project-related revenue driven by demand for discretionary services.
For the full year we expect stronger organic growth in Outsourcing when taking into consideration the seasonality of revenue recognition and health care exchanges in Q4.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic: areas of investment.
Aon has a unique and strong track record of developing innovative solutions to help solve problems in response to specific client needs.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership with the international rollout of Client Promise to drive greater productivity and efficiency.
We're investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information now capturing 2.2 million trades and $113 billion of bound premium.
We continue to have a growing list of more than 35 insurance carriers utilizing the platform for its analytics and services capabilities.
Nearly half of the clients have signed multi-year contracts and an increasing number of clients are also adding strategic consulting services.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk and to identify structured portfolio solutions.
We continue to align our global health and benefits platform to better capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities.
And further we're developing analytics to create globally consistent actuarial valuation and benchmarking models for health and other employer-sponsored benefits.
We're also investing in the continued development of data and analytics capability at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading value proposition and client-serving capability.
A great example of this is Aon Benfield's review [ph] a reinsurer dashboard implementation support and strategic consulting to help insurers be more effective markets for seeding company clients.
Finally we're expanding our footprint through over $500 million of tuck-in acquisitions so far in 2014 at an [ph] increased scale in emerging markets or expanded capability to better serve clients such as the National Flood Services and Lorica.
In HR Solutions we're invested in innovative solutions to address high-growth areas.
We're expanding solutions to derisk pension plans and are seeing tremendous growth in our delegated investment solutions which fulfill our clients' needs for faster execution of their investment strategies.
Aon Hewitt is able to offer differentiated strategy based on our strong 3 pillars of actuarial expertise investment solutions and pension administration.
We're also providing a broader set of advisory and advocacy solutions to our clients' employees to enable greater choice and improve decision making on the retirement options especially important as recent regulatory changes require more involvement from individuals.
Further we continue to make investments to support future growth and strengthen our industry-leading position in health exchanges for active employees and retirees as part of our comprehensive portfolio of health solutions covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies.
Across Aon's suite of private health exchanges covered lives will increase by 60% to more than 1.2 million employees retirees and eligible dependents for more than 100 companies across 19 industries an outstanding result as we saw 100% renewal rates as well as over half of the clients continuing to be new.
We continue to expand the number of industries and increase the number of carriers participating.
Our model is bending the cost of health care and eliminating volatility for clients while delivering more choice and strong satisfaction to employees.
We feel good about our progress to date the sustainability of the value proposition and our ability as a market leader to offer the most robust set of exchange solutions to clients.
We also continue to invest in our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions and cloud-based outsourcing solutions.
And finally we're strengthening our international footprint to support a global workforce with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
In summary we delivered strong earnings growth of 14% despite a number of headwinds impacting results.
Looking forward we expect to deliver strong operating performance across both Risk and HR Solutions in the fourth quarter benefiting from our investments in client-serving capabilities and resulting in a solid year of operational improvement and record-free cash flow generation.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thank you very much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our third quarter results reflect strong earnings growth in our seasonally weakest quarter driven by underlying operational improvement and effective allocation of capital highlighted by the repurchase of $500 million of ordinary shares in Q3.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding noncash intangible asset amortization increased 14% to $1.29 per share for the third quarter compared to $1.13 in the prior year quarter.
Results in the quarter reflect operational improvement a lower effective tax rate and strong share repurchase.
In addition foreign currency translation had a $0.01 unfavorable impact on EPS in the quarter due primarily to a weaker dollar versus the British pound and a stronger dollar versus the Argentine peso.
If currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a modestly higher unfavorable impact in the fourth quarter than we experienced in the current quarter.
Now let me turn to each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 1%.
Operating margin decreased minus 80 basis points to 20.3% and operating income decreased minus 3% versus the prior year quarter.
As Greg previously noted timing impacted revenue unfavorably by approximately $15 million which we expect will largely reverse as a benefit in Q4.
In addition to unfavorable revenue timing operating results in the third quarter include an $8 million or minus 40 basis point unfavorable impact from FX and $4 million of onetime cost related to closing the NFS acquisition.
Together these headwinds totaling minus 120 basis points more than offset underlying operational improvement in the quarter.
Let me spend a moment on the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
Approximately $99 million of estimated savings will be achieved in Risk Solutions.
Approximately $94 million of accumulative savings have been achieved under the program to date with the remaining $5 million to be achieved in the fourth quarter.
We have incurred 100% of the charges necessary to deliver the remaining savings and expect to complete the Aon Hewitt restructuring program by the end of 2014.
Overall results in the third quarter were challenged by unfavorable impact from revenue timing foreign currency translation reinsurance market impact and certain onetime transaction costs which offset solid underlying operational progress as we generate return on our investments and manage expenses.
Year-to-date Risk Solutions margins are up 10 basis points including a minus 40 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign currency.
We expect to deliver strong operating margin performance in Q4 resulting in solid margin improvement for the full year placing us firmly on track for continued progress towards our long-term target of 26%.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment.
Organic revenue growth was 7%.
Operating margin increased 110 basis points to 16.5% and operating income increased 15% versus the prior year quarter.
Strong organic revenue growth and anticipated favorable impact from timing of revenue and a $9 million benefit from timing of certain expenses was partially offset by an anticipated increase in expenses related to future growth in health care exchanges.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program approximately $301 million of the $303 million in total cumulative savings have been achieved under the program with the remaining $2 million to be achieved in the fourth quarter.
As discussed previously we provided guidance for Q3 to be relatively flat.
This included favorable revenue timing in compensation consulting that negatively impacted the first half of 2012 and increased expense to support future growth in health care exchanges.
Our third quarter results were modestly better than previous guidance primarily reflecting some incremental demand for project work in retirement consulting and a $9 million benefit from timing of certain expenses.
We expect the $9 million to unfavorably impact Q4 compared to our original expectations but have no impact on our full year outlook.
Throughout the year we have provided commentary regarding the full year outlook for HR Solutions segment and this remains unchanged.
For HR Solutions in 2014 we expect to number one deliver organic growth; number two generate greater scale and improved return from investments; number three deliver remaining savings related to the restructuring program; number four and lastly deliver greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth and further margin expansion toward our long-term target of 22%.
Overall the outlook is unchanged and we are firmly on track for greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth in 2014 with Q3 modestly better than anticipated and Q4 up substantially in our seasonally strongest quarter including strong organic growth in our health care exchanges.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses decreased $4 million to $39 million primarily driven by expense discipline in the quarter.
Interest income was similar at $3 million.
Interest expense increased $12 million due to an increase in total debt outstanding and costs associated with certain derivative hedging programs.
Other income of $35 million primarily includes a gain on the sale of our eSolutions business and gains on certain long-term investments.
These gains reflect our intent to optimize the portfolio around highest return capital as well as monetize unproductive capital.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $1 million per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $66 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes.
The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 19.1% compared to 25.1% in the prior year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2014 was favorably impacted by changes in the geographic distribution of income partially offset by an unfavorable impact from certain discrete tax items.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 296.1 million in the third quarter compared to 312.9 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased 5.8 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $500 million in the third quarter.
The company has $1.1 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on September 30 were 285 million and there are approximately 10 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q4 2014 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 295 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow on Page 10.
At September 30 2014 cash and short-term investments were $599 million.
Total debt outstanding was approximately $5.5 billion and overall debt to capital decreased modestly to 43.3% at September 30 compared to 43.6% at June 30 driven by a decrease in total debt outstanding.
For the first 9 months of 2014 cash flow from operations decreased 10% to $883 million driven primarily by significant receivable collections in the prior year period and higher-than-normal tax payments partially offset by a decline in pension contributions.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx was $704 million reflecting lower cash flow from operations and a $5 million increase in CapEx.
Looking forward the fourth quarter is our seasonally strongest cash flow quarter and we are on track to deliver cash flow growth for the full year.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are 3 primary areas that will contribute to our goal of doubling free cash flow to more than $2.3 billion annually by the end of 2017.
From the graph in the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by over $600 million based only on a reduction in cash used for pensions and restructuring.
Combined with growth in the core business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate we are well on track to achieve our expectations for substantial cash flow generation.
Regarding our underfunded pension plans we have taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to derisk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly $138 million to $385 million in 2014 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring program cash payments were $152 million in 2013.
As all charges related to the restructuring program have now been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $65 million to approximately $87 million in 2014 and continue to decline significantly each year thereafter.
In summary we delivered double-digit earnings growth in the third quarter and have returned a record amount of capital to shareholders year-to-date.
We expect strong performance in the fourth quarter placing us firmly on track for growth margin expansion in both segments and record-free cash flow generation for the full year.
With a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we expect to generate more than $2.3 billion of annual free cash flow by the end of 2017.
We have positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation in 2014 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 or 2 questions.
In HR Solutions could you talk about the pension transfer opportunity? You had one big win.
How does the pipeline look? And also was this quarter helped by that one good-sized win? Adam the pension opportunity as the laws have sort of shifted and changed a bit particularly the Highway Bill as I mentioned created a number of different opportunities to support clients with demand.
There was some influence on the quarter but it will happen over time as we help clients sort of react to the situation.
But overall the business has just done very very well.
It's on a very very good trajectory but not an undue [ph] influence in the quarter but just will happen over time.
Research Division</strong> So do you think that will be a good driver of growth as we look in '15 and '16 for that segment? Yes I think it really is an indication of just the change that happens in this segment and just continues to happen.
As you think about sort of the whole world around pensions and sort of what's going on sort of in that context clients continuing to have to react to different regulatory changes.
And whether it's the Highway Bill we described before in Montreal there was a change in regulation that also impacted overall so this is basically U.S.
Canada.
The U.K.
is also seeing regulatory change.
These sorts of changes are exactly what our clients have to react to and what we're very well equipped to help them support and that drives fundamental demand in the business and that will actually influence and help us and help our clients not only in '14 but in '15 and '16 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as health exchanges you had a good selling season.
You added a fair amount of clients.
There -- from what we can see there was not one large jumbo client.
Could you talk about maybe the mindset of some of the large jumbo clients in the pipeline as you think about the larger clients for the next couple of years? Well we would say look Adam fundamentally we are very pleased with the progress we made around -- what is our mission here is a health solutions.
That's really what we're trying to bring into the table and an objective and a mission we have on behalf of our clients.
Against that when you think about it we have a base that's 23 million strong in terms of who we serve sort of in the health category with $9.5 million in health and benefits alone and it was really against that backdrop we brought forward was the first of its kind which is the fully insured multi-carrier exchange.
And as we reported the results have been very very strong 1.2 million lives 100-plus companies in that context 60% growth.
And the pipeline we've got is exceptionally strong stronger this year than it was last year as clients have sort of seen this come online.
It's resulted in a fundamental bending of the cost curve which is what we had hoped and anticipated.
That includes by the way everything thrown in there taxes fees everything else and a real meaningful cost for employee savings around that.
We've also seen carriers come on board.
So on the active side 30-plus national and regional carriers.
We've expanded coverage over 10 elected benefits.
And on the retiree side 90-plus health insurance carriers with over 3 700 plans.
So the fundamental chassis the basis the foundation is exactly what we hoped it would be.
Even the industry frankly 19 different industries represented finance manufacturing retail health care technology.
And I would say fundamentally the thing that's driven this more than anything else from our standpoint we're excited about is the impact on the employee.
In the end that's really what the whole focus of the mission is about.
I think the numbers as we've seen them to date over 85% of employees 87% in fact love the ability to have choice transparency and to really have a greater accountability.
And a large percentage 3/4 of them really feel good about -- they're choosing the right health care plan for them for their families for their situation.
So for us we really have appreciated the trajectory that our colleagues have been able to build sort of in the category of exchanges.
Remember exchange is a part of our overall strategy one piece of it an important piece of it.
Fully insured multi-carrier has just gone exceptionally well and we anticipate that will happen over time.
This was never about a quarter or a year for us.
This is about over a period of time developing a meaningful business that will help serve our clients.
And that's exactly where we think we are.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up on exchanges.
I know you have a partnership with eHealth and they actually talked about it that they have -- it sounds like a fair amount of companies are going to be looking at helping their part-time employees potentially find coverage on the federal exchange or for -- yes on the federal exchange.
If that takes off will that actually help -- will that revenue hit more in the first quarter and second quarter versus all in the fourth quarter? It's going to really be over time as you tend to sort of think about how this evolves.
And sort of depending on how it plays out it's going to have a modest impact.
And I just want to emphasize overall -- again as we think about the conversation around exchanges exchanges overall when you think about sort of the impact to 2014 have really been an investment for us and will continue to be as we start to see benefit in '15 and '16.
But the category you're describing is important because it affects individuals but from a financial standpoint will have minimal overall impact on us.
Next question Dan Farrell Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So tax rate again came in at a pretty low rate and you've talked about some of the geographic things going on but also some negative discrete items.
I'm just wondering within the geographic items is health exchange accounting leading to some seasonality there where there's some losses booked early in the year and then obviously a lot of gain in the back half? No.
As we think about the effective tax rate it's really a full year estimate.
That's the way effective tax rates always work.
And so as we think about our tax rate going forward the year-to-date rate of 18.5% is really the best indicator of our underlying effective tax rate.
And as we think about the tax rate going forward for full year '14 or '15 it's really looking at this underlying operating rate of 18.5% and then that could change in any quarter or year based on discrete tax adjustments which as we described were -- negatively impacted it in Q3 positively impacted in Q2 and obviously can be positive or negative going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then there's also just been a lot of talk around the double Irish and I was wondering if you could just give any thoughts if there's any impact with regard to any businesses that you have there.
There's no impact on us from that.
We are a U.K.
company with a global business operating in 120 countries and we don't comment on changes in local regulations or statutory changes.
Next question is Elyse Greenspan Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping to spend a little bit more time on your private health care exchange.
I know you provided your enrollment figures and did speak positively I guess going forward about the pipeline.
Just in terms of looking at your active exchange if we look at the incremental number of companies this year it's about 15 which is the same did join your exchange last year.
Have you seen maybe some companies taking longer to make their decision? And if so why have some companies held off? Were you surprised I guess in terms of the 15 that joined this year versus last year? And then also if you can just tie in in terms of your long-term view surrounding the financials of this business? I believe in the past you've said modest positive earnings in '14.
Is that still the same? And then should we think about this as kind of growing from there when we look to 2015? Let me take those in turn.
First in terms of the ramp-up no we weren't surprised.
And in fact we're not -- as we said before we -- the mission we have is truly a mission around health solutions the best set of integrated health solutions on behalf of clients.
The fully insured exchange on the active side was -- it's just been a great platform.
The clients who've joined it I want to remind you is literally 100% renewal rates.
It doesn't mean that a client might come -- might not come off at some point in time but right now 100% renewal rates.
So everybody who's on it has repeated has seen tremendous benefits.
Employees have really appreciated sort of the overall impact.
And when you think about sort of the growth it's been substantial 60% growth in participants as we said before substantial growth in clients.
And our view has always been we want to build this at the right pace and the right time.
So we may very likely say to a client "Defer " if we think actually it will help from a communication or employee standpoint more than anything else.
This is about building this in the right way and the right time and that's exactly what our colleagues have done.
So we feel very very good about the platform again from a standing start to go where we are now.
And remember as we did this we serve more employees than anyone sort of in this space.
And we said for the fully insured multi-carrier we were going to actually start this in the most sophisticated largest market in the world and that's the large carrier.
That's why our smallest is about the size of some of the others' largest sort of in this category.
And so we've gone against sort of that backdrop to make sure we're bringing the best capability to bear on behalf of our clients and that's what we've done.
And we expect that's going to grow over time.
As I said the pipeline's exceptionally strong and we'll see how things play out over the next 24 months and we feel very good about that.
And then in terms of the economics Elyse I think we did originally say that it'd be modestly profitable in 2014.
As a result of the significant win we had this year and the scaling up to support that significant client it is going to be modestly unprofitable this year and we look -- we don't think it'll have any impact on our greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth which is exactly where we said we would be for the full year.
[indiscernible] Christa described.
We've been able to actually bring this online to develop truly a world-class platform with great capability.
We're in the middle of the work as Christa just alluded to to the largest active and the largest retiree opportunity in the world by a substantial margin and been able to fully do that in the context of delivering greater than mid-single-digit operating income and that's exactly where we are for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of just a little bit more time maybe on the Reinsurance side you did highlight improving trends in terms of organic growth going into the fourth quarter.
Just -- is that partially a function of you seeing a change in growth but then also where it's a little bit of an easier comp when we look to Q4 last year.
How much does that come into play? And then can we talk about the reinsurance markets I guess heading towards the January renewals.
And we're hearing still competition out there.
What would be kind of your initial view when we're looking towards growth in 2015? Well if you step back first think about sort of where we are in Reinsurance through the first 9 months we're down 2% on what literally is the by far the largest book in the world in terms of what we do on behalf of clients #1 in treaty #1 in capital markets #1 in fac.
And our treaty book is the most exposed to the area that's sort of most under pressure from a market standpoint and that's the property cat world both in the U.S.
substantially greater Japan and other places around the world.
Against that backdrop through the first 9 months we're minus 2%.
We're not excited about that but when you think about that that's pretty -- that's a powerful -- that's a reasonable outcome given where we are.
We continue to make substantial investments to build the business in data analytics as I said.
We're going to see that benefit coming through.
We've had record new business across risk overall and we've been able to improve margins even in this environment and we think we're going to be able to continue that trend.
Q4 we see the capital markets pipeline and what's going to close.
It's stronger in Q4 less closed in Q3 a matter of timing.
We'll see that in Q4.
So we'll see a marginally stronger benefit in Q4 which will help us deliver the year.
But net-net when you step back and think about Risk Solutions overall which is how Christa teed this up we have a 10 basis point improvement margin even against the headwinds with 40 basis points in FX and we're going to continue to sort of see that improving in the fourth quarter which is our overall strongest quarter.
Next question is Cliff Gallant of Nomura.
Inc.</strong> I'm sorry to look at this simplistically and sort of just I think building off of Elyse's last question there.
But when we look at Reinsurance from the outside and Greg I realize this is simplistic but earlier this week 2 of your competitors reported growth in Reinsurance and we realize that of course it's a very difficult market but it's hard not to think that there might be some share shift happening.
Is that not happening or is it something else that's going on? We would say no.
In fact not at all Cliff from our standpoint.
Again net new business won which is what we track has been positive for 14 consecutive quarters.
In fact we are almost among our highest ever new business results for the quarter and year-to-date for the first 9 months.
So the underlying piece of the business our colleagues continue to do an exceptional job.
Really just step back.
Again we're the largest book.
I mean there's no excuse.
We need to grow.
We are -- we anticipate growing over time in this business but we have the largest book in the world.
It is most exposed around the property cat world and that's in the U.S.
and in Japan and that actually creates pressure.
That's what we have to deal with.
On the other hand our clients have tremendous opportunity right now and we're bringing more and more of that opportunity on behalf of our clients.
We're doing it through capital markets.
We're doing it through classic treaty and from other avenues as well.
And so from our standpoint we're going to continue to work build the franchise and feel good about capability in Q4 and what we're going to be able to do in '15 and '16 but we have not seen share shift in any way shape or form.
Inc.</strong> If I could have a follow-up.
On the -- if I think about buyback your pace in buyback this year has been very strong and it's exceeding both what you're making in terms of operating income or what you're reporting for cash flow.
And when we think of it going forward as a general rule how should we think about what pace you can sustain in terms of share repurchases? Yes it's a great question.
So as we think about buyback we obviously allocate capital based on return on capital and buyback is our highest return on capital activity.
We have returned year-to-date $2 billion to shareholders of which $1.75 billion was buyback.
And included in this amount was $300 million of additional cash on the balance sheet at year end 2013 and $800 million of additional capital from debt that we raised during the year.
And so as we think about the amount of buyback going forward it's unlikely to be as high as it was in 2014 due to those 2 additional activities.
We don't give specific guidance but share repurchase continues to be the highest return on capital activity across the firm.
And given the substantial cash flow growth we see over time we do see opportunities to deploy cash based on the cash flow growth and there's incremental leverage opportunities over time too.
Next question is Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the organic growth year-to-date in the Risk Solutions segment perhaps around the 2% how would you say that compares to what you would think that the company should do and where do you think it's going forward? And just also attached to that do you think that Aon can generate margin expansion in a 2% organic growth environment? If you step back and think about where we are year-to-date as you described we're at 2% for Risk Solutions overall going into the -- with the headwinds that have been described already on the call going into our strongest quarter.
Through the first 9 months at 2% we expanded margin 10 basis points including 40 basis points of negative FX.
So if you just sort of think about can we expand margin against that growth rate yes and we're -- we think the fourth quarter is going to be stronger that the sort of overall year-to-date.
Remember a lot of the investments we've made and continue to make are not just around revenue growth by itself.
It really is revenue growth and associated operating leverage with that.
And I think we've been able to actually demonstrate very clearly our ability to grow margin with low single-digit and if you step back -- or low single-digit organic growth.
And if you think about what we described for the overall year we've said we'd be low to mid-single-digit organic growth for the year and we delivered solid margin expansion both on a reported and underlying basis.
And what we're reporting through the first 9 months is that's exactly what we're going to do for the year.
And we feel like through the first 9 months we've got more confidence in that now having put 9 months in the books than we had even at the beginning of the year and it was strong then.
So to answer your question we do feel like we can.
Obviously we're always going to go for higher and higher levels of growth but we want to make sure it sort of meets the criteria I just described.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just as a follow-up to this I mean this year was helped by the restructuring savings and next year I don't think that's going to be there.
So do you think you have anything else that can help your earnings next year? Yes so as we think about our margin expansion in Risk Solutions it's really driven by 3 things.
The first and primary driver of our margin expansion across Risk Solutions is the investments we've made in data and analytics both in our retail business in the GRIP platform which has over $100 billion of premium and that is driving improved yield on every dollar of premium placed  la incremental operating leverage and equally the $120 million a year we are investing in Aon Benfield data and analytics.
So those investments in GRIP and Aon Benfield data and analytics are really the primary driver of Risk Solutions margin expansion in calendar year 2013 and calendar year 2014.
And we'll continue to drive expense discipline and expense opportunities as we look at outsourcing and off-shoring.
We look at being more efficient around our IT investments and our real estate footprint.
So we feel very good about the continued growth towards 26% Risk Solutions margin.
In many respects generally [ph] the investments we've made over the last 24 months 36 months around this idea as Christa described of really data and analytics to help clients make better decisions to improve their performance and also to increase yield per dollar of premium placed are literally just coming online.
You're starting to see the impact of those.
The fullness of those come online in '15 '16 and '17 and that's why as we said and continue to say we're on track to continue to march toward 26% from a margin standpoint in the Risk Solutions business.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay that's helpful.
And just on tax rate Christa so should we look at it at a 19% tax rate for next year? I mean is that reasonable and that seems substantially lower than the 22% rate that you had in 2013 excluding the onetime adjustments.
Yes we're not -- we're no longer providing specific guidance.
The year-to-date rate of 18.5% is the best indicator of our underlying effective tax rate.
And as I said previously as we think about the tax rate going forward 18.5% plus or minus discrete tax adjustments which can be positive as we saw in Q2 and negative as we saw in Q3 is really how you should think about it.
Next question is Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions here for you.
The first one just going back to exchanges.
Christa when we think about -- you've signed up a large client this year.
That's one of the reasons that I guess now you think that the exchanges are going to have a loss for the year.
So is every time you sign up a large client you're going to have this kind of issue of expense pressure? Or are some of the expenses you're putting on as a result of this large client leverage-able as we go into kind of the following years in exchanges? Yes it's a great question Brian and it's really the second.
As we think about the scale we're adding in calendar year 2014 we're really building the infrastructure to run the business going forward.
It's a fixed cost base we're building which will then be leverage-able across new clients going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then the second question I know as far as the 26% margin target in Risk Solutions improving yield specifically through GRIP is I know is a big part of getting there.
I guess my question is when you look at GRIP where do you expect kind of the revenues and the profits kind of to come from as you get that 26%? Is it signing up new insurance clients? Is it deals? Where is it going to come from? Yes Brian it really is across the board.
And again the goal here is what is the Risk Insight platform? It really is -- it is as sophisticated or not as sophisticated if you will of just really getting insight to match capital to client need more effectively.
So it really provides insight into our distribution capability for our market partners so that they can apply their balance sheets in a more effective way.
Against that goal that means it actually helps them grow and more opportunity for them is more opportunity for our clients and more opportunity for us.
It would give us the ability to bring on some additional insurers as they see that opportunity but it also dramatically expands the group we've got.
We work with over 4 000 insurers overall but really it is -- we said 30 to 35 we have sort of engaged in this.
It really requires the insurers they're our market partners to invest time and energy too because we're changing the way we apply capital into our -- into the marketplace on behalf of our clients.
So we see really the opportunity all of the above more of them more carriers involved more opportunity with our existing carriers we think is quite quite substantial and ultimately even with our clients in terms of sort of what we're doing at this point and helping them make better decisions.
So this is really -- GRIP was really just the first step on a journey called using data and analytics to help clients make decisions to improve their operating performance strengthen their financial position or reduce their volatility.
And that's really what the data analytics is all about.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's more getting more penetration within your insurance clients is kind of where the revenue growth comes from [ph]? But even more than that more coverage with the existing clients we have.
There's so much opportunity that we have as they think about what they're doing.
And we think about our overall portfolio of 60 billion or 70 billion being able to actually package those risks and deliver them to these carriers in a way they can provide better value propositions for our clients really really powerful too.
So this is the structured portfolio of solutions tremendous set of opportunities there.
It really benefits everyone benefits clients tremendously benefits markets.
We benefit in the process too.
So it's greater penetration with our existing group and also other opportunities outside that.
So that's the second and the third is opportunities with clients.
The next question Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> On the tax rate one question I thought the tax rate the corporate tax rate in the U.K.
was 21%.
One is that right? And then secondly why is your rate below the corporate tax rate in the U.K.? Jay we operate in 120 countries and so our global effects of tax rate is really a result of profits that we generate in each of the 120 countries as opposed to the U.K.
itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay so there's obviously other tax jurisdictions that are lower and that's when you make some money obviously brings it overall down okay.
Fourth quarter buybacks tend to be smaller seasonally.
Should we expect that again this fourth quarter? Jay we don't give specific guidance on share repurchase.
I have described why our year-to-date number that we've returned to shareholders of $2 billion is higher than it will be going forward because it included additional cash off the balance sheet of $300 million at year-end 2013 and the $800 million of additional capital we raised from debt during the year.
And so as we think about our share repurchase going forward obviously it's based on our free cash flow growth which is going to be strong and it's allocated to the highest use of capital and that's really our philosophy going forward.
Our next question is Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First just a little bit on the Reinsurance side.
I just want to -- your opinion on -- more on the expense side.
If you think about pricing pressure as well as some secular change in the Reinsurance marketplace how much like do you think -- what property level of expense as well as where do you invest your money in that? And basically we're trying to get is that we see in the near term some margin pressure in the business as you continue to invest.
Why the top line probably is lower [ph] in the past? Well let's step back.
Think about what we're trying to do in the space again we're the largest platform in the world #1 in treaty #1 in facultative #1 in capital markets.
And what we're trying to do is we're actually helping our clients actually improve their return on invested capital reduce their volatility strengthen their balance sheet.
And when you think about that opportunity it is tremendous and we see that actually increasing over time.
The 4 000 issuers out there many of them if not all of them would love to actually have improved operating performance stronger financial positions less volatility et cetera and that's fundamentally exactly what we do at Aon Benfield.
So we see that opportunity is substantial.
And by the way we continue to invest very very strongly behind that opportunity.
Christa highlighted we have -- we're investing over $120 million a year in data and analytics in Aon Benfield alone which we believe is substantially greater than anyone else in the overall industry and we're making substantial investments across the overall risk business not just in the Reinsurance business and it really is that -- that's really as we think about the business overall how we see tremendous opportunity.
It is absolutely clear that currently there's tremendous price reduction that has happened and it disproportionately affects books that have property cat  la ours.
But having said that we think about this across overall Risk Solutions is it -- Risk Solutions and as we said before we improved margins in Risk Solutions in the first 9 months and we did it against FX headwinds in addition to the market headwinds.
So from our standpoint we like our position a great deal on the Reinsurance side.
We're going to continue to invest behind it and it really is about how we grow that business through helping clients and that's really what our focus is.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then second question on the acquisition front.
You have been relatively quiet in the last few years but now you just acquired the National Flood Services.
I just wonder do you see additional like acquisition opportunities that could augment your organic growth? We said -- we've done 12 acquisitions plus year-to-date.
We've described NFS and we described Lorica and a number of others as well.
We've done in excess of $500 million for the first 9 months and we see tremendous opportunities around the world and continue to invest in content capability geographic expansion particularly in the emerging markets.
So we see tremendous opportunity on the acquisition front to continue to strengthen global Aon and as we said we're going to continue to invest behind that thesis.
Next question Mike Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
One is you called out the favorable competition consulting impact on revenues.
Did that have an impact on HR margins as well? No it didn't because when we gave original guidance at the beginning of the year in terms of greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth and essentially flat in Q3 we were giving it in the context of knowing about this compensation consulting revenue timing change and of course knowing about the investments we're making in health care exchanges.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on the exchanges a bit I mean obviously last year large case employers saw a lot of movement; this year maybe a little bit more in the middle market.
I was just wondering like do you think in the near term there are trends out there that may support more adoption in the middle market at a pace that's elevated relative to large -- the larger case employers? And if so would you consider expanding your offering to kind of reach down to that segment of the market? Again come back -- remember our mission and objective.
Our mission is to bring the best health solutions to the marketplace and we serve large market middle market small across the board.
So and again if you'd go back to sort of the base line 23 million strong 9.5 million in health and benefits alone that includes a huge amount of the middle market.
So we already have a disproportionate amount of business in the middle market and a number of folks are sort of describing pieces of that in different ways as kind of self-insured exchanges.
We don't do that.
We're trying to bring a range of solutions including a range of exchange solutions to wherever they have impact.
We happen to have tested our first set in the large market arena and it's done exceptionally well.
We think there's great applicability across large and across middle and for the clients that would benefit from exchanges we want to bring those solutions to them.
And if there are other ways we can serve them and help support their mission we'll do that too.
So we see substantial growth across the board -- substantial potential in the large market and in the middle market.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess we've talked a lot about you've got growth and talked -- focused a lot about -- on enrollment and the fact that we expect in the near term that you'll be reinvesting dollars back into the exchanges.
You continue to grow in anticipation of more scale down the road.
But can you talk about how you think about this business from like from an operating leverage perspective? I mean do you expect that at scale should this business be able to deliver higher margins than your sort of traditional health and benefit business just because there's more technology and there's more -- should be more scalability? Yes.
So what we would say is obviously we're investing on behalf of our clients.
We've been doing that for several years now  and we're doing that again in 2014.
Long term we absolutely expect this business to be higher than our target margins of 22% and therefore generate a terrific return on capital for shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just last question I guess on this topic is has the -- how has the relationship with clients changed to the extent that you were a consultant the largest on the benefit side? Now you are sort of straddling that line between consultant and vendor because you now have your solution that you're bringing to the table? Does that change the relationship at all? And if it does how and if not why not? It really doesn't.
In fact when we -- when this works well we were able to provide a platform which creates transparency choice even greater accountability for individual employees.
We've actually enabled companies sort of at the center of this to actually create better alignment more -- better choices for their employees.
They then also take risk off their balance sheet.
They control volatility and we've created alignment very much with the actual carriers out there.
So that's the platform.
And again against that backdrop 100% renewal and most important than anything else 87% employee satisfaction.
But if you said yourself is everything done then? Is all the health issues -- are all they -- are they gone? And the answer is no.
This is an ongoing set of challenges for companies.
It's an ongoing set of challenges for individual families and so bringing advice and content and insight around that platform when it goes well that's really -- that's the most powerful outcome we can bring to the table a very clear platform that clients can utilize as well as advice and perspective that actually helps them take full advantage of it for their company and for the employees.
So we think when it works well there's -- it's highly complementary.
Next question Joshua Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm not going to be the last person to ask a question about taxes unfortunately.
When I've asked in the past I've gotten an answer like well the data analytics for our health care exchanges are located in Singapore or the data and analytics for our reinsurance business is located in Singapore.
When the client is buying a health care exchange how much are they paying for the access to the health care and how much are they paying for your data and analytics services? Or similarly in reinsurance how much are they paying for you to buying the business for them and how are they paying for your data and analytics? It seems like the data analytics is a small part and the access is the big part.
And so I'm wondering how much revenue is really being generated in Singapore that can effectively bring your tax rate significantly down below your domicile where you're located? Yes I guess what I would say Joshua is really as we think about delivering value to clients we're trying to ensure that we're delivering the best value service to clients wherever they may be in the world and a core part of the value we're providing for clients is helping them make better decisions and the data analytics are a key part of making more informed and better choices in our Reinsurance business in our retail business and obviously in our health care exchange business as employees make the right health care choice for them which is why we've got 87% employee satisfaction.
As we think about our business around the world we're absolutely investing in data analytics because it's a huge part of helping us provide differentiated solutions for clients.
I would separate that out from the tax rate.
We are a U.K.
company.
We operate in 120 countries.
As we think about our tax rate and our effective tax rate going forward the 18.5% is our underlying operating rate and it's a mix of 120 countries in which we operate.
Research Division</strong> But the health care exchange for example is a U.S.
business that happens to record revenues in Singapore because that's where the data analytics is located yes? That's not true.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't record revenue in Singapore? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay then I'm mistaken in terms of how -- the information I've gotten in the past.
And then -- so there are not countries where you're booking revenue in one country but recognizing the revenue in a tax-free domicile in order to get a better tax rate? Joshua what I would say is we have product development and innovation in analytics centers because -- to hub them in analytics centers is the best way to build deep analytic skill sets.
So GRIP GRIP is based in Ireland.
We have 110 people based in Ireland.
They're PhDs.
They're statisticians.
They're building that GRIP database.
Of course we want them all in one location.
That's absolutely right and so -- but we really think about delivering the value to clients using that data in the best way for the clients.
Research Division</strong> But if a U.S.
client buys GRIP in the United States is the revenue for the purchase of GRIP recorded as a U.S.
revenue or is it reported -- recorded as an Irish revenue? Yes look we have global carriers and therefore the revenue is recognized wherever the service is delivered.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think that's the same answer but I'm not sure but it's a complicated issue.
There's a lot of stuff going on in global tax.
Obviously I'm just concerned that you're actually doing a great job with tax and I want to know if I can forecast that in perpetuity.
And what I said on that is the 18.5% operating rate is our underlying effective tax rate.
And as you think about the tax rate going forward it's 18.5% plus or minus discrete tax adjustments which could be positive or negative in future years.
Next question Meyer Shields of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg one question just to clarify when you talk about Reinsurance organically being better in fourth quarter are you expecting it to be positive or just less bad than it's been for the past couple? Again we don't give specific guidance.
We said it would be an improvement in the Q4 and it reflect kind of a negative 2% year-to-date.
We think Q4 will be a bit better.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
Broadly speaking when you look at the demand for cyber risk I guess I'm wondering one is there -- is that something that's going to present a measurable opportunity for Aon? And second is there any risk that clients that have gotten hacked look to the broker as maybe not pushing as hard on these coverages as they should have? Well if you step back and think about it you're really hitting on -- cyber you can talk about pandemic.
You can talk about sustainability a whole series of things.
Our view always has been it's one of the reasons why we love this business so much on behalf of our clients is our clients face a range of traditional risks.
And globally it's true.
It's true in every country of the world.
As populations urbanize it becomes even more true around property casualty D&amp;O et cetera and then you bring in all the nontraditional risk as you're starting to highlight cyber being one.
But again you could add pandemic Ebola whatever you want to add to that mix.
There's just a whole range of those sorts of opportunities and challenges for our clients.
We see that as a tremendous obligation to support them in that and opportunity for us to support them in that.
And so we've invested and continue to invest very very heavily.
This is back to Christa's point around data and analytics getting the insight and understanding so that you can just begin to quantify that risk.
Therefore you can then understand -- you can mitigate that risk and then price for it and where there's opportunities bring balance sheets into play  la place insurance.
But oftentimes it doesn't even involve insurance placement.
It involves operations and we're helping clients across the board on all those pieces and our clients are really looking for us to try to do that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one last question if I can.
I think it's for Christa.
The various revenue timing issues that you've talked about today do those reverse in 2015? In 2015 no.
The revenue timing issue the $15 million will reverse itself in Q4 2014.
So really in terms of Risk Solutions what you should really think about is putting $15 million of revenue in Q4 because we've absorbed the expense for it in Q3.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No I understand that.
I'm just wondering when we look forward a year is the seasonal adjustment that we're seeing this year does that go back to the way it was in 2013 or is this sort of the mentality? No this is the new patterning going forward.
Next question is Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could talk about just more broadly the organic growth year-to-date in the U.S.
in international.
I think Reinsurance has been beaten dead.
So we've seen a modest deceleration and in hindsight can you talk about any reflections on whether or not you think that's more economic growth changes or rate changes? Well a little bit as we said before.
Think about year-to-date in the Americas the 2%; year-to-date in international 3%.
Basically as we said we're about to go into our fourth quarter which is the strongest quarter we have across the firm.
We see exceptionally strong new business trends particularly in the U.S.
have been exceptionally strong.
So underlying again tremendous opportunity as we continue to build the business.
We would say from a pricing standpoint really think about it as market impact pricing on one side and then insured values on the other.
Pricing is largely around the retail side hovering around 0 plus or minus very slightly and insured values are holding up I would say not decreasing.
So we're kind of marginal from that standpoint which by the way might be a bit of an improvement but marginal overall and that's really the context.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
My second question I was hoping you'd talk a little bit more about the other income line.
I recognize that there's more than one thing in there but it seems like we've had a couple of years where on average and I'm not asking here for a discussion really on the quarter but more the year in total on average that line has become a positive number.
Is that something that we should think about as possible in the future? Or I think historically we thought it as being something that in the end ended up being kind of a 0 typically over time? Yes.
So Paul I think it's obviously a lumpy line.
And it theoretically should be 0 over time.
What you see reflected in there is our continued efforts in managing the portfolio to maximize ROIC for shareholders and therefore it includes the gains on the sale of a business and it also includes gains in certain long-term investments as we continue to optimize the portfolio around highest return capital.
So it is lumpy and therefore almost impossible to predict.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm comfortable with lumpy but I guess it actually sounds like if you are -- continue to optimize the portfolio and sell things off and do those like -- and have these investments that generally speaking although obviously with a lot of volatility it should be a positive number.
Or am I just completely off-base? Well I guess what I would say Paul is as we actually model our own business internally we model it at 0 if that's helpful for you.
Our last question is Charles Sebaski of BMO Capital Markets.
The first question I have is regarding GRIP and wondering I think Greg you said that some of the 30 or 35 clients currently participating in GRIP are on multi-year contracts.
I wonder if we could get some more color on how many of the accounts and how long those multi-year agreements might be lasting? Yes we really don't disclose that.
What we said before is again nearly half or so have signed multi-year contracts but really it was more an indication of the value they're seeing and the impact it has.
That really is what we're trying to highlight but we're not going to go into detail in terms of the specific mechanics around it.
Okay.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is I believe that the number's been around 30 for a couple of years now.
And given as you said you work with 4 000 insurers globally I would have thought that the value proposition you're talking about we would've seen more expansion in that product line.
No.
Actually we're not going for volume here.
We're going for -- by the way very good question but this isn't about volume it's about quality content.
With that balance sheet our carriers deliver on behalf of our clients.
So it's been a reasonable progression 20 25 30 35 give or take.
We don't -- this doesn't need to be thousands or even hundreds nor do we want it to be because in the end we're really talking about using data and analytics to change the way that an underwriter thinks about applying capital to our clients.
Fundamentally that means it's better for our clients and it means it's better for the underwriters better for Aon too in that process but really it's a function of our clients.
That process takes real content data and analytics.
It also takes real leadership from an Aon standpoint and from a carrier standpoint and this is really what we've been doing.
And as those relationships connect in different ways that's really what's drawn and built the overall GRIP platform effectively and that's why we see it will expand over time.
This goes back to Brian's earlier question.
With the 30 35 we think we see substantial opportunity to expand dramatically and that's a huge benefit for our clients and for them.
And then we'll add a few from time to time if insurers really want to invest their time and energy to make this work because there's nothing instant about this.
This is real hard work with new insights and new data to apply their capital in a different way.
Is that -- is there any sharing between that data analytics platform and what you're doing in Re? So I guess what I'm wondering as you talk about the $120 million spend in data and analytics for Re and I guess I'm trying to get an understanding better on what your total investment is across all platforms be it health care exchange be it GRIP be it Re on where you guys are on that relative to the $120 million you provide.
Yes.
Again we'll be very clear.
What we talk about with the $120 million is Aon Benfield only.
So the investment on the Risk Insight Platform is not included in that at all.
That really is done in the ARS book -- ARS business overall so it's completely separate.
We haven't disclosed what the number is but if you think about it $120 million in the Reinsurance business is a tremendous investment annual investment.
We invested substantially more than that on the retail side of the business.
So now we haven't even got to Aon Hewitt yet.
We're really just talking about on the risk side of the business.
So back to what we're doing to sort of build our content and capability again we haven't disclosed it but it's substantially a multiple greater than $120 million a year when you think about what we do in Risk Solutions overall and GRIP our Risk Insight Platform is completely separate from this $120 million.
And can we get some idea at all on the -- I know there was some commentary made about investments this quarter on the new clients for health care exchanges.
I'm trying to get an understanding since inception on what kind of investment has been made in the construction of the health care exchange platform.
And then going forward what kind of investment upkeep or run rate investment growth is going to be required in that business? What we said basically is we've invested -- we explicitly said as we were bringing this up and online greater than $100 million investment.
What we said going forward there will be -- continue to be substantial investments.
And by the way bringing large clients on is a great cause for celebration for us.
We -- a phenomenal validation of what we're doing very reinforcing.
What we said is all future investments we're going to fully fund out of the P&amp;L.
And what you need to hear from us is the following exactly what Christa described is we are delivering in HR Solutions mid-single-digit organic revenue growth and greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth for 2014.
And so while there have been investments greater than $100 million we described before we are absorbing them all in the P&amp;L and by the way delivering greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth for '14.
So that's really how you should think about it.
And just a last one.
Christa on the share repurchases for the first quarter to make sure that I -- I'm understanding something correctly with the current share count at 296.1 million and I think in the presentation you say the expected diluted share count in the -- for full year '14 is 295 million so am I reading that right that the expectation is really only about 1 million shares of buyback? Is that on par with where cash flow or cash ability is in the quarter? Yes.
So here's what I would say.
The actual shares outstanding at 9/30/2014 were 285 million.
You then have about 10 million of additional dilutive equivalents which get you to 295 million which is your starting point for Q4 before any share repurchase et cetera.
And so we're not giving guidance about share repurchase in this number.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
Just wanted to say thanks to everyone for joining us.
We appreciate it very much and look forward to our discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon plc's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature and defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning any risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results as well as have been posted to our Web site.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon plc.
You may begin sir.
Thank you and good morning to everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
I would note that there are slides available on our Web site for you to follow along with our commentary today.
And consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover three areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is overall organic growth performance.
Third continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics; each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3; in the fourth quarter organic revenue growth was 6% overall; the strongest quarter of organic revenue growth in over a decade highlighted by strong growth in our HR outsourcing and America's retail brokerage businesses.
Operating margin increased to 180 basis points reflecting strong operating margin improvement in both segments.
EPS increased 23% to $1.89 reflecting strong operating margin improvement a lower effective tax rate and effective capital management.
Now if we turn to the full year; organic revenue growth was 3% overall reflecting solid growth in both segments despite pricing pressure on our reinsurance business and overall economic uncertainty in Europe.
Operating margin increased 50 basis points reflecting margin improvement in both segments inclusive of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
EPS increased 17% to 5.71.
And finally free cash flow was roughly flat at 1.4 billion as record cash flow from operations of 1.6 billion was offset by a 27 million increase in CapEx.
Overall our results reflect a strong finish to the year despite industry and foreign currency headwinds.
We delivered continued growth in operational improvement.
We are making significant investments in client serving capabilities across the firm and returning a record 2.5 billion of capital to shareholders in 2014.
Turning to Slide 4; on the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 3% overall reflecting strong growth in the Americas and improvement in reinsurance.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solution segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of our renewal book through Aon Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average highlighting strong client satisfaction in our retail business; new business generation of 36040 million across our retail business highlighted by another record quarter of new business in U.S.
retail as well as double-digit new business growth in many countries across APAC and emerging markets.
In our core treaty reinsurance business net new business trends have been positive for 15 consecutive quarters an outstanding performance in today's changing marketplace.
That reflects Aon Benfield's long-term value proposition for clients and the application of excess capital in the industry to previously uninsured risks and increased operating leverage from our investments in innovative technology and data and analytics with the growth of GRIP ReView and Aon Broking.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions; in the Americas organic revenue growth was 7% compared to 4% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact from pricing was flat resulting in continued stable market impact.
We saw solid growth across all regions; U.S retail Latin America and Canada and growth across all businesses; property casualty health and benefits and affinity.
In U.S.
retail and Latin America we delivered a record level of new business generation.
Results in the quarter also include 8 million of anticipated favorable timing that unfavorably impacted the third quarter.
Excluding this timing benefit underlying organic revenue growth was 6%.
In International organic revenue growth was flat.
Similar to the previous quarter exposures were stable but the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile market conditions in many regions across Europe.
We saw strong growth across Asia in both mature and emerging markets and solid growth across the Pacific region specifically New Zealand driven by new business generation.
Results in the quarter were offset by a modest decline in Continental Europe.
For the full year Continental Europe delivered modest growth driven by new business in many countries and the management of renewal book portfolio across the region; an excellent outcome against sustained market headwinds and economic uncertainty.
In reinsurance organic revenue growth was 3% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
Excess capital in this space continues to pressure global treaty pricing driving a significant unfavorable market impact to the quarter.
Results reflect positive net new business in treaty placements as well as growth in capital market transaction and advisory business and facultative placements.
While record capital was placing pressure on traditional treaty clients were taking advantage by purchasing more coverage.
In addition we're putting capital to work in new areas such as the credit default market with Fannie and Freddie.
And our industry market-leading data and analytics are bringing new solutions to the annuity market for life insurers.
Aon Benfield's unmatched level of investment and exhaustive portfolio of support and services is creating real value for clients and new products that are helping to offset near-term industry headwinds.
Overall across Risk Solutions; we delivered improved growth in the fourth quarter as anticipated resulting in 2% organic growth for the full year.
As we continue to drive new business and to take a unified approach to serving clients across the portfolio we expect lower to mid single-digit organic growth for total Risk Solutions in 2015.
Turning to HR Solutions; organic revenue growth was 10% with growth across both major businesses and in areas where we're making the investments in the business including healthcare exchanges pension risks and delegated investment solutions.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding and influence of market trends and solutions that sustainably address the long-term issues that face our clients as healthcare reform healthcare costs and associated financial risks continue to rise at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions to support our global organizations delivered at a local level managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR solutions; in consulting services organic revenue growth was 4% compared to 1% in the prior year quarter.
We saw continued strong growth in U.S.
retirement primarily from demand for pension de-risking and lump-sum winter activity along with continued growth in delegated investment consulting and growth across businesses in Asia.
Results were partially offset by a mass decline in Continental Europe as macro conditions placed pressure on discretionary spend.
For the full year we delivered 5% organic growth across consulting services in line with our outlook for 2014 and we expect mid single-digit organic revenue growth to continue in 2015.
In outsourcing organic revenue growth was 15% compared to 11% in the prior year quarter.
Organic revenue reflects substantial growth in our healthcare exchange business as we recognize revenue related to the majority of enrollments that take place during the fourth quarter in our actives and retiree exchanges.
Results also reflect new client wins in HR BPO as an increasing number of clients are adopting cloud based outsourcing solutions.
Overall for total HR solutions we delivered improved organic revenue growth for both the fourth quarter and full year as anticipated in our outlook for the segment and would expect this level of performance to continue into 2015.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic; areas of investment.
Aon has a unique and strong track record of developing innovative solutions to help solve problems and create differentiated value in response to specific client needs.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
A few examples include: in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership with the firm-wide rollout of Aon Client Promise a unified approach to client service across Aon to drive greater productivity and efficiency.
We're investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's leading global database of risk and insurance placement information now capturing nearly 2.4 million trades and a $119 billion of bound premium.
We continue to have a growing client list of more than 35 insurance carriers utilizing the platform of which more than half have signed multi-year contracts.
Existing client renewals have been very strong and an increasing number of clients are also adding strategic consulting services.
In addition we're driving our Aon Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk and to identify structured portfolio solutions.
We're also investing in the continued development of data and analytics capability at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading value proposition and client-serving capability.
A great example of this is Aon Benfield's review a reinsurer dashboard and strategic consulting service to help reinsurers be more effective markets to seeding company clients.
We continue to align our global health and benefits platform to capitalize on our global distribution channels and de-brokerage capabilities in an area that is high growth in nearly every region of the world.
And finally we're expanding our footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that increased scale at emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients.
We completed 14 opportunistic acquisitions in 2014 for roughly 500 million expanding multiple practice areas and geographies.
In HR Solutions we're investing in innovations to address high-growth areas.
We're expanding solutions to de-risk pension plans that support increasing needs for delegated investment solutions which fulfill our clients' needs for faster execution of their investment strategies.
Aon Hewitt is able to offer a differentiated strategy based on our strong 3 pillars of actuarial expertise investment solutions and pension administration.
We're also providing a broader set of health retirement and talent advisory and advocacy solutions to our clients' employees and retirees to enable greater choice and improve decision-making.
As part of our comprehensive portfolio of health solutions covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies and funding choices we continue to make investments to support future growth and strengthen our industry-leading position in health exchanges for active employees and retirees.
During the quarter we delivered strong enrollment execution and excellent service experience for roughly 1.2 million employees and retirees up 60% over the prior year including the two largest employer transitions to the private exchange market in the industry.
Our active exchange model is bending the cost of health care of the clients having placed over 4 billion in health insurance premiums across the growing list of more than 30 national and regional carriers.
For clients returning to our active exchange the average cost increase was 2.6% including administration fees and cost associated with the Affordable Care Act which compares favorably to industry data reflecting the average healthcare cost increase for self-insured large U.S.
employers was approximately 5% to 8%.
Overall our industry-leading portfolio of health solutions continues to drive strong client interest and demand with both exchange and bundled solutions that cover all clients segments and needs in an evolving healthcare landscape.
We also continue to invest in our industry leading benefits administration solutions and consumer technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions and cloud base outsourcing solutions for clients.
And finally we're expanding our international footprint to support a global work force with investments in key talent capabilities across emerging markets.
In summary we delivered 23% growth in the fourth quarter highlighted by significant operational improvement in both segments and effective capital management for a strong finish to 2014.
Looking forward we expect continued improvement as we've positioned the firm for sustainable long-term growth increased operating leverage and significant free cash flow generation in 2015.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thank you so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our fourth quarter results reflected strong finish to the year with double-digit earnings growth highlighted by the strongest quarter of organic revenue growth in over a decade.
We had strong operating margin expansion in both segments and the repurchase of 500 million of ordinary shares.
Validity flexibility combined with significant free cash flow generation has enabled the deployment of roughly $3 billion of capital in 2014 with a record $2.5 billion returned to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
And roughly 500 million in acquisitions that are expected to drive future growth.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on Page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 23% to $1.89 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $1.54 in the prior year quarter.
Results in the quarter reflect strong operational improvement a lower effective tax rate and affective capital management.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on page 13 in the press release include non-cash intangible asset amortization and certain expenses related to legacy liquidation assumed by us prior to 2005.
In addition changes in foreign currency rates had a $0.06 unfavorable impact on EPS in the quarter due primarily to a stronger dollar versus most currencies particularly the Euro.
For 2014 a stronger dollar drove an estimated $39 million or $0.11 unfavorable impact on EPS.
If currency to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a similar impact in the full year 2015 as we saw in 2014 with the first quarter incurring the majority of the impact in retail brokerage due to a weaker Euro while Q2 to Q4 should see no material impact year-over-year.
We expect to drive further operational improvement and affectively allocate capital resulting in continued strong EPS growth in 2015.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segments organic revenue growth was 3%.
Operating margin increased 110 basis points to 24.7% and operating income increased 5% versus the prior year quarter.
Results from the quarter reflect solid organic revenue growth and return on our investments in data and analytics such as GRIP and on broking.
Let me spend a moment on the Aon Hewitt restructuring program.
Savings in the fourth quarter estimated at $25 million compared to $21 million in the prior year quarter.
The AON Hewitt program is now complete.
The program delivered total cumulative expense savings of $402 million of which $99 million were in Risk Solutions.
In Q4 we delivered strong operating performance in Risk Solutions despite a significant unfavorable market impact in reinsurance and continued economic uncertainty in Europe.
The 2014 Risk Solutions operating income grew 2% operating margins increased 40 basis points to 22.9% including a minus 30 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign currency translations.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency underlying operating margin increased 70 basis points.
We are firmly on track for improved operating income performance in 2015 and further margin expansion towards our long term target of 26%.
This is driven by the return on investments we have made giving us greater operating leverage in the business and expense discipline as we optimize our global cost structure in areas such as IT real estate global procurement and utilization of offshore capacity.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment; organic revenue growth was 10%.
Operating margin increased 210 basis points to 23.5% and operating income increased 19% versus the prior year quarter.
Strong organic revenue growth in the quarter was partially offset $9 million anticipated unfavorable impact from certain expenses that were pushed from the prior quarter.
With respect to the Aon Hewitt restructuring program savings in the fourth quarter are estimated approximately t $76 million compared to $73 million in the prior year quarter.
Approximately $304 million of the total cumulative savings were achieved in HR Solutions.
As discussed previously we provided guidance for Q4 to be up substantially in our seasonally strongest quarter driven by organic revenue growth in healthcare exchanges.
We delivered a strong finish to the year as anticipated.
Further for the full year operating income increased 7% and operating margin increased 40 basis points.
This level of performance is exactly in line with our full year outlook for HR solutions segment of greater than mid-single-digit operating income growth and margin expansion.
As Greg noted we made excellent progress in 2014 delivering on our financial goals that were laid out at the beginning of the year.
Looking forward we expect continued operational improvement in 2015 with quarterly [passing] or results similar to 2014 down in Q1 flat to modestly up in Q2 and Q3 and up substantially in Q4 in our seasonally strongest quarter.
Overall we are firmly on track for improved performance with our long term target of 22% as we generate greater scale and improve return from investments.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside the operating segments on Slide 9.
Unallocated expenses decreased $10 million to $44 million driven by expense discipline in the current quarter and higher than normal expenses in the prior year quarter.
Interest income was similar at $3 million.
Interest expense increased $10 million due to an increase in total debt outstanding.
Other income of $10 million included a $7 million gain due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on the re-measurement of assets and liabilities and non-functional currencies and gains on certain long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $2 million per quarter of interest income $45 million of unallocated expense and $68 million of interest expense per quarter.
Turning to taxes; the effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 19.6% compared to 24.2% in the prior year quarter.
The effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2014 was favorably impacted by changes in the geographic distribution of income.
The global effective tax rates for the full year were 18.9%.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 293.4 million in the fourth quarter compared to 311.4 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased 5.4 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $500 million in the fourth quarter.
Actual shares outstanding on September 30 were 280 million and there are approximately 9 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q1 2015 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 289 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Further in the fourth quarter Aon plc's Board of Directors authorized a new $5 billion share repurchase program in addition to the existing share repurchase program previously authorized in April of 2012.
For the full year the Company repurchased 25.8 million Class A ordinary shares for a record total of $2.25 billion.
The Company has approximately 5.6 billion of remaining shares repurchase authorization.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow on Page 10.
At December 31 2014 cash and short-term investments were $768 million.
Total debt outstanding was approximately $5.6 billion and total debt to EBITDA on a GAAP basis was 2.1 times compared to 2.3 times on September 30 2014.
Cash flow from operations increased 1% to a record $1.6 billion driven primarily by growth in net income and a decline in pension contributions offset by an unfavorable impact from timing of significant receivable collections in the prior year period.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx was roughly flat at $1.4 billion reflecting higher cash flow from operations offset by a $27 million increase in CapEx.
Looking forward we expect significant free cash flow growth in 2015 driven by operational and working capital improvements uses of cash for pension and restructuring continuing to wind down and lower cash tax payments.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility; we value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are three primary areas that will contribute to our goal of doubling free cash flow to more than $2.3 billion annually by the end of 2017.
From the graph in the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by over $650 million based only on a reduction in cash used for pensions restructuring and CapEx.
Combined with growth in our core business further margin expansion and a reduction in the overall effective tax rate we are well on track to achieve our expectations for substantial cash flow generation.
Regarding our pension plans reported liabilities on a GAAP basis increased to $2.1 billion at year-end 2014 reflecting a 90% funded status compared to a $1.6 billion at year end 2013 reflecting a 91% funded status driven primarily by a decline in discount rates.
Not reflected in those amounts however are $933 million of overfunded pension plans that are included in non-current assets in the balance sheet.
Considered together our net unfunded obligations are approximately $1.2 billion.
Despite significant pressure from historically low interest rates the Company has taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly $96 million to $220 million in 2015 and continue to decline thereafter.
Additionally non-cash pension expense with a modest benefit in 2014 and we expect pension expense to be a modest benefit in 2015.
Regarding our restructuring program cash payments were $82 million in 2014.
As all charges related to the restructuring program have now been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $51 million to approximately $31 million in 2015 and continue to decline significantly each year thereafter.
In summary for both the fourth quarter and full year we drove operational improvement across both segments and delivered double-digit earnings growth.
In addition we returned a record $2.5 billion of capital to shareholders in 2014 through 2.5 billion of share repurchase and dividends as well as the deployment of roughly $500 million of capital towards acquisitions that are expected to drive future growth.
We expect strong earnings growth and significant free cash generation in 2015 as we've progressed towards our goal of generating more than $2.3 billion of free cash flow by the end of 2017.
With a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we have positioned the firm to significant shareholder value creation in 2015 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Good morning everyone.
Couple of different questions; one how should we think about the margin on the health exchange as we go into 2015? As you mentioned I think you have 1.2 million people on the exchange today.
I would assume for that 1.2 million people you have already done implementation costs and the service costs are much higher first year so do those -- from margin perspective do those 1.2 million people become more margin accretive in '15 versus '14? So Adam I would say healthcare exchanges we made a modest loss in 2014 as you know.
We'll continue to make progress in 2015 and I would describe it as an immaterial impact.
We're really focused on our HR Solutions business and growing overall revenue growth as Greg described as mid single-digit revenue growth and continuing to grow operating income and that's really the overall focus.
And you should see the margin expansion towards 22% [ph] over time.
Okay.
And then can you talk about -- I noticed you did a -- I think not a big deal but another workday integrator in Europe I think you bought the largest in the U.S.
last year that workday business that's growing very rapidly.
Is that part of your success in the -- growing your BPO outsource business? Could you discuss that a bit? Absolutely Adam.
So we have invested significantly in workday capability in our BPO business and it is driving substantial growth as you described.
We brought the largest implementation firm in the U.S.
in 2012 OmniPoint.
And we just closed the acquisition Cloud which is the largest implementation firm across Europe.
And we're very excited about the growth prospects of that business and how it enables us to deliver that capability plans.
Sorry could you just go on to a bit of detail on that I don't think everyone is familiar what workday does and why is that driving growth just more specifically? Yes.
I think the way we will describe the capability for larger than more sophisticated clients is it's a Software as a Service application as opposed to an on-premises application and really the Software as a Service application enables clients to have much greater functionality.
It's much lower cost.
It's much easier to scale globally.
And so clients wanted to be more efficient and provide much greater analytics around the HR function.
Okay.
And then finally how is the pipeline for the pension transfer business? Adam it's actually been quite strong.
If you think about what our clients are going through right now with the regulatory changes and challenges and general state of pensions on the world today you can imagine it's a very substantial area of concern and interest for clients.
And so as such we've been fortunate we've led a number of the situations that have actually been completely in the last 18 months and we are continuing to do that.
And really this is one of the contributor that drives overall consulting business that has actually progressed very very well as you've seen in the results.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question is Sarah DeWitt of JPMorgan.
Low to mid single-digit organic growth in 2015 but P&amp;C prices fall and we don't get much of a pick up in the global economy to what extend do you think you can still achieve that and grow margin? So Sarah you were cut off at the beginning but I think you're asking the question just correct me we grew top line and we grew margin in '14 there is lot of pricing pressure can we still do it in '15? Am I paraphrasing where you were? Right and what to extend is your low -- can you still achieve your low to mid single-digit organic growth target in '15? Right.
So top line we're very comfortable and confident we're going to continue the low to mid single-digit growth in 2015.
If you step back and think about it with the insight platform the global risk insight platform we capture exactly what happens across our book.
And what you've actually seen is a reduction in price as you described offset by a modest improvement or increase in exposure that's roughly flat overall.
That's what we've seen.
We think it will trend toward that.
And with more pressure on the reinsurance side that's offset quite substantially by efforts we've undertaken in the business to grow the business both fundamentally with Aon Client Promise but also with the investments we're making in data and analytics.
And you are actually seeing that show through in almost every situation.
Our new business is literally a record level of new business in the U.S.
Never been achieved before and actually it patterns us very well for 2015 and really is a reflection of the underlying investments that the team has made over the last number of years in the business.
So we're very very comfortable.
If you think about sort of progress over the last number of years there's always been some version of a headwind out there and there will be in 2015 but we're quite confident we can move through that and grow the business and improve margin.
Okay thanks.
And then on the pension I heard your comments but I still don't understand why are the future pension cash contributions decreasing when the liability on the balance sheet increased? Yes really because of a lot of moves we've made Sarah over the last five to seven years; we have frozen the plans we've closed them we decreased the benefits and we continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
And so that means that the cash contributions are really much more stable and on a path of decline then they would otherwise be if we hadn't taken those steps.
The other thing I would say which I mentioned earlier is there is an overfunded asset in other assets of approximately 900 million and if you add that to the minus 2.1 unfunded liability you get a net of 1.2 billion which is fairly sort of similar to last year of about 1.05 billion.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Next question is Dave Styblo of Jefferies.
Sure.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions; I just want to start out a little bit more on the FX headwinds and how you guys think about that for '15? I guess my understanding is that the stronger dollar against your British pound or Rupee are actually positive and how much does that help mitigate currency pressure against the other currencies out there? And I guess the short one I'm trying to get to sense of how much of an EPS headwind are you expecting in '15 from the net Yes.
Dave your question is absolutely right.
We have a positive impact from the Rupee and Pounds and then a negative impact really from most other currencies.
And really what I said earlier is the total impact of 2014 was $39 million negative or about a $0.11 unfavorable impact on EPS for the full year 2014.
We would expect a very similar total impact for 2015 entirely in Q1 and the Q2 to Q4 impact is essentially zero.
And that's really where that positive impact from the Rupee and Pound offsets negative impact from other currencies.
Does that make sense? Sure that does.
Thanks.
Sorry I missed that earlier; I was hoping across.
Shifting gears over the reinsurance side here; I won't name names but one of your competitors who are also having to report today also have strong organic growth of 3% to 4% in both retail and reinsurance brokerage businesses; I mean just wondering what do we need to take from that? Are you guys seeing something in a market broadly that's making it easier to sell into the market or some of the pressures abating what are you broadly seeing and are we just in a sweet spot at this point? Well David if you step back and think about first fundamentally there continues to be exceptional demand out there to improve fundamental insurers' performance.
That's what the reinsurance world is all about perhaps to be a tremendous amount of capital chasing that.
And that's what's been discussed and talked about with more capital of 575 billion underpinning the industry right now.
That's the greatest level that it's ever been with more set up on the horizon.
Having said that when you think about the product; it's become less expensive we are seeing actually insurers point different ways to buy increasing amounts; that's one piece.
The second piece is if you think about Aon Benfield's level of investment and content capability over the last number of years it's been expensive.
And with that we are actually bringing capital to different solutions.
So what we did in the mortgage industry is an area of growth.
What we've done in the life world is another area of growth and essentially if you think about Aon Benfield we believe it's the best in the world with matching capital with fundamental demand around risk in different categories around the world.
And what you're seeing is a bit of reflection of that.
I would say again back on the new business front it's one of the strongest quarters in years we've had.
It's been a long long time our new business generation.
And we're just doing more to the existing clients we have as well.
So from our standpoint our capability and financial strength to invest behind this business and data and analytics fundamentally we believe will frankly separate us from what others can do in the space and we think clients value that and are going to utilize and put their benefit and pay for.
Okay.
And then last if I can sneak one in on the exchanges; you guys did mentioned your 2.6% increase for clients returning and other competitor is pretty low in that range and these the impressive results and I'm just wondering how much of this is resonating with potential clients that you are talking to? Are you starting to see any sort of inflection point as we're going forward and selling for the 2016 sales cycle? What are the conversations looking like at this point? Dave it really reflects overall -- first of all the team just did a phenomenal job in 2014.
Again we got 1.2 million enrolled.
I want to emphasize enrolled lives on our exchanges versus eligible as you think about it.
When you consider it's really -- for us as we've seen from a cost standpoint at 200 to 500 basis point change against a comparable plan design; that's our 2.6 versus the industry's 5.8.
By the way that's against a fully insured answer.
That means volatility is next to zero versus a much more expensive and much more volatile answer.
So you can imagine that's one of the reasons that plus by the way 87% individual employee satisfaction is one of the reasons why we've had a 100% retention on the exchange and why as other companies look at it they're seeing a highly viable option for them.
So we've had very robust and active set of conversations with the pipeline.
We're excited about the continued progress of this aspect of what we do in health we do a lot of other things too with this aspect; and we are looking forward to 2015 and 2016 as we continue to expand exchanges.
Okay thanks for the questions.
Thank you.
Next question is Brian Meredith of UBS.
Yes.
Good morning everybody a couple of questions here; first Christa I'm wondering if you could break out for us a little bit the growth that you saw in the outsourcing I know part was BPO part obviously healthcare exchanges anyway can you give us a sense of how much of that was related to the BPO and is that BPO revenue kind of continuing? My thoughts are those are for the longer term contracts right? Yes I mean I would say we had growth across the outsourcing business brand.
We had growth in BPO.
We had growth in our traditional benefits administration business and we had growth in healthcare exchanges.
And I don't want to over rotate on healthcare exchanges.
I think while it's an incredible business for us and we're incredibly proud of the progress we made this year.
We've also had great performance at our benefits administration and our BPO business.
We don't actually break them out Brian but while the healthcare exchange growth year-over-year is also the highest it's the smallest of those three businesses too.
So -- they're all growing to get to that total outsourcing growth number.
So is it fair to say the contribution for the BPO kind of the year-over-year growth of 13% -- actually 15% organic that was a big part of this just a pick up there? I would actually say the BPO contribution to overall outsourcing growth for the year was modest.
And I would say -- but it came from all over Brian it came from BPO it came from Ben admin and it came from healthcare centers.
Great great thanks.
And then on healthcare exchanges as well can you give us a sense of what the pipeline looks like right now for potential new signees coming into the fourth quarter of 2015? Are we seeing a pickup in interest levels this year? Brian revenue -- I had said it in substantial number of conversations and dialogs we feel very good about the pipeline and the progress we're making.
As we've described the outcome for the last few years where clients have been on -- it's just been exceptionally strong as I mentioned before to one of the other questions.
Literally we're seeing cost savings -- truly bending the curve the cost curve here.
That's a level of 200 to 500 basis points which is exceptional and then when you combine that with the idea that this is not just reduction but it's also in price but a reduction of volatility and so these are fully insured outcomes with clients set our individual employee sat at 87% plus that's been very very strong.
In assets we got three years with the data that we're looking to on behalf of clients and so you could imagine against that backdrop the interest is actually quite strong.
Right and then just lastly on the reach the insurance growth in the quarter -- how much was period now they can be kind of lumpy? You captured it very well.
Obviously the capital markets transactions are achieved in both -- in capital markets also in fact another just had an exceptionally strong quarter that was a big piece of it.
But I also want to emphasize the new business story here is exceptionally strong.
It's one of the business strongest new business generation periods ramp until history of 5 consecutive quarters of new business generation.
But we ended the year with a lot of momentum in that category.
So it was really a combination but certainly reflects the lumpiness as you described on capital markets.
So would you say most of that was that? No I would say substantial now for Q4 result.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is Ryan Burns with Janney Capital.
Great.
Good morning everybody.
I'm not sure I may have missed it earlier but did you guys give any sort of guidance for adjusted income in the HR Solutions segment.
I know you gave kind of margin in quarterly basis.
But just want to see if you had any guidance for the operating -- sorry adjusted income? What I did say Ryan was that we expect revenue growth of mid single-digits for the HR Solutions business in 2015.
We expect operating income to continue to grow so we expect growth in operating income and growth in margins in 2015.
And we expect to pattern very similar to 2014; with operating income down in Q1 flat to modestly up in Q2 and Q3 and substantially up in Q4 which is our seasonally strongest quarter.
2014 was a level on year of progress we see 2015 exactly the same way.
Great.
Thanks for that color.
And then just my last one is -- obviously the payout ratio this year if I do dividends plus buybacks it get around 150% of operating earnings; and I realize there's roughly $300 million of excess cash heading into the quarter or into the year.
Just want to think about or just get your ideas as to how we should about that going forward? Yes I mean the way we think about capital allocation Ryan is really around return on capital on a cash on cash basis.
And we did deploy substantial amount $2.25 billion of into share repurchase because we believe was substantially undervalued today as we look at our own discounted cash flow view of the firm.
And that's why are deploying much more capital on share purchase versus dividends.
And so that's the way -- you should think about that forward.
As we think at the total amount of capital we might -- deploy our return to shareholders in 2015 if we looked at the 2014 -- if you looked at free cash flow growth of -- 1.4 billion and in 2014 we'll continue to grow free cash flow in 2015.
As free cash flow grows there is opportunity for incremental leverage.
And maybe unproductive capital and then that results in the cash that we can return to shareholders and continue to look at that on a return on capital basis to the highest return n capital opportunities.
Great thanks for answers guys.
Thank you next question is Jay Cohen Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes thank you.
Looking forward one of the sources of I guess additional cash that you say is a lower tax rate and I don't know if you were talking about 2012 forward or from today forward? Do you expect the tax rate to go down more from where it is now? Jay we think the 18.9% tax rate for 2014 is the right operational rate going forward.
What we would say is that as you think about the cash flow growth over time the cash tax is likely to be lower in 2015 because there are often timing differences between the effective tax rate saw in 2014 and cash taxes.
Okay.
I think you can't really quantify that? No.
Okay but the tax rate on a reported basis should be similar or relatively equal? Right.
Yes.
Eventually -- it evens out.
There are just say timing in such transitions Got it.
Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Next question is Mike Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you I guess one question that i had was on the pension expense and the impact of lower interest rate I saw in your presentation that you have the cash proceeds to pension declining and so just trying to reconcile that I'm guessing there is some risking -- continuity risking activities that you undertook in the year to maybe offset some of the impacts of that but love to get more color.
Thanks.
Yes and Mike we did say on pension expense.
Pension expense was a modest benefit in 2014 and we expect it to be a modest benefit in 2015 again.
And absolutely right market is due to the fact that we've taken substantial actions over multiple years.
We froze the plans we close them we've de-risked the certain plan assets over time as you described and all those things have led to lower cash contributions and sustained and pension expense being a modest benefit again in '15.
Got it.
And then if I could just one on the exchanges is it possible now I mean we're couple of years in to the cycle and probably have better handle on -- the economics in the build out of the platform is it possible to get an idea of how you think about the operating leverage that you get from 8customer being a traditional benefit customer versus on exchange -- how do you think about the return how do you think about the -- the drivers of whether its contribution margin or operating margin obviously there's a lot of expenses still so you've -- that net margin number probably still looks similar to the other business.
But just trying to get an idea of underneath once you've factored out the platform investments how shall we think of how're they thinking about the one versus the other and the operating leverage of one versus the other? Thanks.
Yes and so Mike the way we think about it is return on capital unsurprisingly and really when we made the initial investment in exchanges both in active in retiree we thought about our return on capital basis cash-on-cash.
And you're absolutely right process; the investments are substantial in both operating expense people as well as the technology platform.
And we are still investing as you know because we made a lot of an exchange in 2014.
And what I would say is we do expect the return on capital of our investment to be substantially superior to the rest of our business which is why we invested so much in that area.
And so we do expect it to have higher than average returns because -- the fixed cost are largely fixed and as we continue to get scale we'll get disproportionate returns on those incremental lives and clients.
Of course I do -- exactly the same way we looked at the other organic investment substantial across the firm and what we've done in data and analytics across the insights platform is the exact same approach.
Ultimately we are making use of assets because they -- we believe we will serve clients fundamentally better.
That absolutely has to be in place.
And that certainly is in place for the exchanges but they also have to give us greater operating leverage.
And so we're essentially investing cash flow back into the business to create greater operating leverage and that's in fact what the exchanges are doing -- that's what data analytics has done.
That's the risk insight platform is doing.
That's what U.S.
is going to do et cetera et cetera.
So that's the philosophy; everything you see us do sort of follows that same track.
Got it.
When we think about timing if we were to quarantine the revenues and expansions from exchanges and put those aside because you're basically flat it sound like.
Then the margins on the rest of the business are expanding more than the segment margins would indicate.
And then at some point that investment that you are making is going to result in margins as well.
So just trying to think about like what's the timing of that and when -- because once we switch flips I mean that we should start to see that in margins Yes and Mike you are absolutely right about that because we also achieved margin expansion and operating income growth in '14 which we did in HR Solutions.
We are continuing to invest and make lots in exchanges.
Then you are absolutely right the rest of the business is expanding margins and growing operating income growth substantially.
So that is absolutely true.
And then we would say as we look at exchanges it is a long-term investment or a long-term return and we would expect that to happen over a multi-year period of time.
And again if I could I would broaden this is as a broader firm; if you think back philosophically to the question earlier on the call which is "Can we grow in 2015 and gets more headwinds?" Answer is we've grown every year and increased profitability and increased margin and invested heavily in the business.
And part of the reason we're confident in our continued progress against whatever headwinds are out there are these specific types of investments because as they come online and create operating leverage for us that's really what's going to fuel bottom line.
By the way if the headwinds went away that would be magnified but irrespective of the headwinds these investments in exchanges in risk insight platform in ReView in additional data and analytics in the Singapore Innovation Center in the Irish Innovation Center; these types of things give us operating leverage we believe is unique to the industry.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is Charles Sebaski BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I guess the first question I have Greg is on the healthcare exchange and the cost save that you talked about -- the 2.6% rate increase.
I guess if I go back to a press release you guys put out in November talking about the healthcare exchanges and the increasing costs that document said that the 18 returning customers to the healthcare exchange actually saw a 5.3% rate increase anticipated for 2015 versus the 2.6%.
And I'm just wondering how you can help us rectify that? Great.
So literally as were talking about we were talking about the total set of companies online and what we see coming in and in two-year average for the company so I think we're little bit apples and oranges.
What I was trying to do is give you the latest and greatest hot off the presses what exactly is going on in the market and what we are seeing.
I guess the overall market trend and what we are seeing; and so that's the 200 to 500 basis points.
You still come back and essentially say you're getting fundamental cost save in a substantial way; again 200 300 400 500 basis points cost save and no volatility because it's fully insured versus self-insured plus the client sat that I described before that could be employee sat.
So from our standpoint we feel very very good about and we are trying to give the latest and greatest sort of what's going on in the market.
All right.
.
Give a little update on M&amp;A both forward but also what happened in 2014? You made $500 million of acquisitions in the year.
But when I look at the revenue detail for the Company it was kind of zero for the year on revenue impact.
And so I guess in this $500 million you bought what's the acquired revenue base? Where should we see that come up in dollars or should it all be in 2015? And then what's your expectation for the upcoming year? Yes.
So you are absolutely are Charles we spent about 500 million on acquisitions in 2014.
We invested in a number of geographies the U.S.
the U.K.
the Pacific region and a number of specific capability areas National Flood Services and LARK [ph] employee benefits being two great ones.
The majority of these acquisitions were in our Risk Solution business.
The thing I would say is as you look at the mix on M&amp;A it's mix of acquisitions and divestitures because there were some divestitures during the year too as we continue to optimize our portfolio around return on capital.
And what I would say is these are terrific capabilities.
They are unbelievable teams.
They really place the teams in the capability sub front and they will generate great returns in the long-term.
Okay.
But will they show up? Is it a capability that helps your current Business grow as opposed to net new revenue where we would see in an acquisition line? A lot of these are tuck-in acquisitions that are impacting the overall business.
You're going to start to see them in top line.
You will also see them with existing business we've got magnifying and expand that business.
So it will be a combination of both.
The investments of 500 million or so investments in '14 you're going to certainly see in '15.
A lot of it depends on timing when they come in.
You are going to see us still continuing to make in the order of 200 300 $400 million of acquisitions per year where we can build content capability and we've been doing that quite well.
And then finally one of your initiatives that you mentioned is the global consulting initiative that you mentioned Greg; and I believe this is more of a management consulting initiative for insurance companies? Yes what I would it wasn't really broad-based consulting.
In essence what the team is doing is really a step-forward is they brought very very unique data and analytics capability to bear on behalf of our insurance clients much likely we've done with insights platform.
And they not only brought what's called ReView.
They not only brought that to bear.
They also offered around that some wide space services to actually not only help and provide new insights because essentially we're matching capital with client need and they are doing that for at the reinsurance level now.
But in addition to this the fundamental raw analytics they're also bringing an element around advice.
And a number of clients have really valued that.
And so that's an added component.
Our view is data is interesting; a lot of people have it we happen to have a tremendous amount but data is basically work loss and that's what actually changes client behavior.
That client behavior has got to drive performance and things like operating performance balance sheet strengthening and reduction of volatility and the way to help clients do that is to add some components around advice to it.
So that's really the nuance that we wanted to try to convey.
So that won't be a stand-alone product within risk that might -- it's part of the overall value proposition as opposed to a new stand-alone group within the risk organization? It is going to be -- its part of what we are doing in terms of something we bring to bear on behalf of our reinsurance clients.
So in that regard it is capability that we are continuing to develop.
It's actually gone through a tremendous start with lots of interest in demand in the marketplace.
And so you will see it's part of our overall Aon Benfield offering.
What's the size of that? How many people are dedicated things providing the service today? Well we haven't disclosed that but if you take a step back and think about the capability of Aon Benfield we spent over a 100 million in year in content data and analytics with literally -- it's better part of 400 to 500 colleagues involved and dedicated to that.
Again back to the idea of how we create operating leverage in the business.
This is just one more important albeit one more important step as we continue to build up that capability.
Could you explain the legal settlement in risk for $35 million in the quarter? So that what a legacy litigation of liability we incurred as part of 2005 and a decision was made in the court against the expense incurred.
Thank you very much for all the answers.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Arash Soleimani of KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning I just have a couple of questions; I know you mentioned the impacts of organic growth -- reinsurance organic growth coming from capital market; is there anyway to quantify the margin impact in risk solutions from capital markets this quarter? We don't really break that out as we said before; it's a tremendously positive business for our clients and for us.
We lead the market in it.
It is something that we've built over the last number of years it's exceptional strong and particularly lumpy sort of up and down across the quarters and it was quite strong in the quarter.
And was any of the lumpiness attributable to just timing differences working capital markets? No.
Okay.
And my other question was in terms of the FX impacts I know you quantified it on the income statement in the press release; how does that flow-through on the cash flow statement? I mean it's really flowing through net income but it's hitting operating income as I've described.
It's basically $31 million lower in operating income and Risk Solutions is the way you should think about it.
But I would say that if you listened to what we said we said it's going to be the same FX impact overall in operating income and EPS impact in full year '15 as we saw in full year '14.
And against that headwind in 2014 we grew EPS 17%.
And so we feel really good about our ability to grow earnings substantially in '15 and grow cash flow substantially in '15 despite the headwinds.
In many respects FX has come up quite naturally two times on the call it is a headwind as Christa described we will work through it and have it very very effectively just like pricing was the headwind just like in interest rates or headwind et cetera; all these things are out there.
Our ability to grow top line and improve margin in the phase of that we believe is pretty proven and with the organic investments we've made or increased operating leverage we think bodes very well for 2015.
Okay thank you for the answers.
Thank you.
I would like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
I just want say thanks to everybody for joining the call and look forward to our discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Plc's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all parties will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
If anyone has an objection you may disconnect at this time.
I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our first quarter 2015 results as well as having been posted to our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Plc.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today and consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover three areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders; second is overall organic growth performance; and third continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margin increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to Slide 3 in the first quarter organic revenue growth was 3% overall with solid growth across both segments and highlighted by 4% growth in the Americas Retail Brokerage and HR Outsourcing businesses.
Operating margin decreased 50 basis points as underlying operational improvement in both segments was more than offset by a significant unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation primarily in Risk Solutions.
EPS increased 7% to $1.37 including a $0.15 unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation reflecting underlying operational improvement other income gains and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow growth increased $140 million driven by a substantial increase in cash flow from operations.
Overall results reflect a solid start to the year overcoming a significant challenge from foreign currency driven by organic revenue growth across Risk and HR Solutions underlying operational improvement effective capital management and substantial free cash flow generation.
We are well on track for continued improvement in 2015 and for further progress against our long-term goals.
Turning to slide four on the second topic of growth I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 3% overall reflecting solid growth across Retail Brokerage partially offset by a modest decline in Reinsurance.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives that are strengthening the underlying performance and positioning our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage.
With management of the renewal book through Aon Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average across Retail Brokerage highlighted by near record levels of retention of greater than 93% in U.S.
Retail.
New business generation of more than $220 million across our Retail business highlighted by double-digit new business growth in many countries across Latin America Asia and emerging markets.
In our core treaty Reinsurance business net new business trends reached record levels in Q1 and have been positive for 16 consecutive quarters.
An outstanding performance in today's challenging marketplace that reflects Aon's Benfield long-term value proposition for clients and the application of excess capital in the industry to previously uninsured risk.
An increased operating leverage from our investments in innovative technology and data and analytics with the growth of GRIP [Global Risk Insight Platform] Review and Aon Broking.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions in the Americas organic revenue growth was 4% similar to the prior-year quarter.
Exposures continued to be positive across the region while the impact from pricing was flat resulting in continued stable market impact.
We saw solid growth across all regions: U.S.
Retail Latin America and Canada; and continued growth across all business lines; Property and Casualty Health and Benefits and Affinity.
In U.S.
Retail as I mentioned earlier we delivered retention rates near record levels greater than 93% driven by strong management of the renewal book portfolio.
Results in the quarter also reflect double-digit new business growth in Latin America and Canada.
In International organic revenue growth was 3% similar to the prior-year quarter.
Exposures continued to be stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile market conditions in many countries across Europe and pressure in the Pacific Region.
We saw strong growth across Asia and emerging markets and solid growth in New Zealand driven by new business generation and strong management of the renewal book portfolio.
Results in the quarter also reflect solid new business generation in Continental Europe and excellent results in the region as we are well positioned to benefit from potential improvements in the macroeconomic environment across Continental Europe.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was minus 1% against a strong comparable of 3% in the prior-year quarter.
Excess capital in the space continues to pressure global treaty pricing most notably in the Americas driving a significant unfavorable market impact in the quarter.
Results reflect near record levels of new business in treaty placements as well as modest growth in facultative placements partially offset by a modest decline in capital markets transactions.
While the rate of price decline has decelerated compared to the previous year a record amount of capital continues to place pressure on the market.
As a result clients are beginning to buy more coverage and record capital is being deployed to new markets.
New opportunities for growth combined with industry-leading data and analytics continues to position the business for long-term growth despite current industry conditions.
Overall across Total Risk Solutions we delivered solid growth in the quarter and are well on track for low to mid-single-digit organic growth in 2015 as we continue to drive new business and take a unified approach to serving clients across the portfolio despite continued pressure in Reinsurance.
Turning to HR Solutions organic revenue growth was 4% with growth across both major businesses and in areas where we're making investments in the business including healthcare exchange solutions Cloud-based outsourcing solutions pension risk and delegated investment solutions.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership understanding and influence of market trends and solutions to sustainably address the long-term issues that face our clients such as healthcare reform as healthcare costs and the associated financial risks continue to rise at a time when overall health and wellness is not improving.
Multinational clients are increasingly looking for global benefit solutions that support their global organizations delivered at the local level.
Managing and transferring risk against pension schemes that are increasingly frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes.
Finally software-as-a-service models are quickly emerging as attractive platforms for companies as they provide the latest technology access to upgrades and a flexible pricing model with minimum investment in technology infrastructure.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 2% compared to 1% in the prior year quarter.
We saw continued strong growth in U.S.
Retirement primarily from demand for pension de-risking and lump sum window activity along with continued growth in delegated investment consulting.
Results were partially offset by a modest decline in Retirement Solutions in Continental Europe.
For the full year we expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth across Consulting Services.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 4% compared to 1% in the prior year quarter.
Organic revenue reflects growth in our healthcare exchange business from follow-on enrollments and additional off cycle wins on the retiree exchange.
The follow-on retiree enrollments that took place in the first quarter are expected to renew during the normal Q4 enrollment period in the upcoming years returning to normal seasonality of the healthcare exchange revenue.
Results also reflect new client wins in HR BPO as an increasing number of clients are adopting cloud-based outsourcing solutions.
Overall for HR Solutions we delivered improved organic revenue growth in the first quarter.
Looking forward we expect continued performance to be driven by growth in high demand areas where we've made investments as well as leadership across our core businesses and are on track for mid-single digit organic growth in 2015.
Slide 5 highlights the third topic: areas of investment.
Aon has a unique and strong track record of developing innovative solutions self-solve problems and creates differentiated value in response to specific client needs.
Solid long-term operating performance combined with expense discipline and strong free cash flow generation continues to enable substantial investment in colleagues and capabilities around the globe.
These investments have enabled and are expected to continue to enable Aon to drive sustainable long-term growth while building operating leverage into the business.
Aon's industry-leading platform continues to evolve to address clients' changing needs and strategic priorities with innovative first to market solutions and unmatched advisory capability.
A few examples include: in Risk Solutions we're investing in client leadership with a firm-wide rollout of Aon Client Promise a unified approach to client service across Aon to drive greater productivity and efficiency.
We're investing in innovative technology such as the Global Risk Insight Platform.
GRIP is the world's largest leading global database of risk and insurance placement information now capturing nearly 2.7 million trades and $119.5 billion of bound premium across 65 lines of business.
We continue to have a growing list of carriers utilizing the platform of which nearly half have signed multi-year contracts and an increasing number of clients are also adding strategic consulting services to their annual contract fee.
In addition we're driving our AON Broking initiative to better match client needs with insurer appetite for risk and to identify structured portfolio solutions.
We're investing in the continued development of data and analytics capability at Aon Benfield to strengthen an already industry-leading value proposition and client-serving capability.
A great example of this is Aon Benfield Review a reinsurer dashboard and strategic consulting approach to help insurers be more effective as they approach markets for ceding and ceding company clients.
We continued to align our global health and benefits platform to capitalize on our global distribution channel and deep brokerage capabilities in an area that is high growth in nearly every region around the world.
And finally we're expanding our content and global footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability to better serve clients.
In HR Solutions we're investing to address high growth areas.
We're expanding solutions to de-risk pension plans and support increasing needs for delegated investment solutions which fulfill our clients' needs for faster execution of their investment strategies.
Aon Hewitt is able to offer a differentiated strategy based on our three pillars: of actuarial expertise investment solutions and pension administration.
We're also providing the broadest set of health retirement and talent and advisory advocacy solutions to our clients' employees and retirees to enable greater choice and improved decision making.
As part of our comprehensive portfolio of health solutions covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies and funding choices we continue to make investments to support future growth and strengthen our industry-leading position in health exchanges for active employees and retirees.
Our third year enrollment results on the active exchange have underscored the long-term sustainability of private exchanges.
Well-designed exchanges can be a better way to offer health benefits by delivering on their promise to engage consumers offer broad choice and control costs for employers.
As noted last quarter for clients going through their second year renewal the average cost increase was 2.6% including administration fees and costs associated with the Affordable Care Act which compares favorably to industry data reflecting the average healthcare cost increase for self-insured large U.S.
employers was approximately 6% to 8%.
Equally important client satisfaction for the enrollment period was outstanding for the second consecutive year with 87% of employees having liked the ability to choose among multiple carriers.
Carrier satisfaction was also strong with 80% of employees giving their medical carriers a four or five-star rating Overall our extensive portfolio of health solutions continues to drive strong client interest and demand with both exchange and bundled solutions that cover all client segments and needs in an evolving healthcare landscape.
We also continue to invest in our industry-leading benefits administration solutions and consumer technology platforms including extensive mobile solutions and Cloud-based outsourcing solutions.
In Q1 we completed the acquisition of the UK-based Kloud the largest dedicated workday consultancy firm outside the U.S.
With this transaction Aon Hewitt becomes the largest provider of workday services in Europe and is fully resourced to deliver results for multinational clients as one of the world's largest workday providers.
Finally we're expanding our international footprint to support a global workforce with key investments in talent capabilities across emerging markets.
In summary our first quarter reflects a solid start to the year driven by underlying operational performance and investments in innovative client-serving capabilities.
Looking forward we expect continued progress throughout the year as we position the firm for sustainable long-term growth increased operating leverage and significant free cash flow generation toward our goal of $2.3 billion or more for the full year 2017.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thank you so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our first quarter results reflect the solid start to the year overcoming a significant headwind from foreign currency translation.
We delivered solid organic growth in Risk and HR Solutions underlying operational improvement monetized unproductive capital and drove working capital improvement resulting in strong earnings growth.
We also delivered significant free cash flow growth which enabled the repurchase of 250 million of ordinary shares in our seasonally weakest cash flow quarter and the announcement of a 20% increase to the annual dividend subsequent to the close of the quarter.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on page six of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 7% to $1.37 per share for the first quarter compared to $1.28 in the prior-year quarter.
Included in the results was a $0.15 per share unfavorable impact related to foreign currency translation.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation earnings per share in the first quarter would have been $1.52 up 19% from the prior-year quarter.
These results reflect strong operational and financial performance overcoming an anticipated unfavorable impact due to the U.S.
dollar strengthening against most major currencies most notably the euro which weakened 17% versus the prior-year quarter.
Impact from anticipated weakness in the euro was compounded by the seasonal strength of our EMEA business in Retail Brokerage as the majority of our corporate renewals take place in the first quarter Going forward if currency were to remain stable at today's rates the impact will be substantially less than the headwind in the first quarter as we now expect a modest unfavorable impact in each quarter principally in Q2 and Q3 as rates have continued to weaken against the U.S.
dollar since our previous guidance.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 3%.
Operating margin decreased 40 basis points to 23.2% and operating income decreased 6% versus the prior year quarter.
Included in the quarter was a significant unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of $50 million or minus 60 basis points.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency operating margin increased 20 basis points to 23.8% and operating income increased 4% versus the prior-year quarter.
Underlying results reflect solid organic revenue growth and a return on our investments in data and analytics such as GRIP and Aon Broking.
Overall in Q1 we delivered solid underlying operating performance in Risk Solutions despite continued headwinds from a significant unfavorable market impact in Reinsurance.
We are firmly on track for improved operating income performance and further margin expansion in 2015 towards our long-term target of 26% driven primarily by the return on investments and expense discipline as we optimize our global cost structure in areas such as IT real estate and global procurement.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 4%.
Operating margin decreased 10 basis points to 13.2% and operating income was flat to the prior-year quarter.
Solid organic revenue growth in the quarter was more than offset by a $6 million or minus 20 basis points unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and investments to support future growth.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency operating margin increased 10 basis points to 13.4% and operating income increased 5% versus the prior-year quarter.
Our first quarter results were exactly in line with expectations and management's guidance previously provided to the HR Solutions business of down in the first half and up in the second half of the year resulting in improved operating income performance for the full year and further margin expansion toward our long-term target of 22%.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on slide nine.
Unallocated expenses increased $4 million to $47 million.
Interest income increased $1 million to $3 million.
Interest expense increased $7 million due to an increase in total debt outstanding.
Other income of $42 million primarily includes $23 million of gains due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on the re-measurements of assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies and certain transactional FX hedging activity to help mitigate an anticipated unfavorable translation impact.
It also includes $19 million of net gain on the sale of certain businesses.
The gains resulting from the sale of certain businesses reflect our intent to continue to monetize to optimize the portfolio around the highest return on capital as well as monetization of unproductive capital.
Going forward we expect a run rate of $45 million per quarter of unallocated expense $2 million per quarter of interest income and $68 million per quarter of interest expense.
Turning to taxes the effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 19.1% similar to the prior-year quarter at 18.9%.
Lastly diluted shares outstanding decreased to 287.1 million in the first quarter compared to 307.2 million in the prior-year quarter.
The company repurchased 2.5 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $250 million in the first quarter.
The company has $5.4 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on March 31 were 281.7 million and there are approximately 7 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q2 2015 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 288.5 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our solid balance sheet and strong cash flow growth on slide 10.
At March 31 2015 cash and short-term investments were $721 million.
Total debt outstanding was approximately $5.7 billion and total debt to EBITDA on a GAAP basis was 2.1 times similar to December 31 2014.
Cash flow from operations increased $147 million to $136 million in our seasonally weakest cash flow quarter driven by a decline in pension contributions working capital improvements and a decline in cash paid for taxes and restructuring.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased $140 million to $74 million reflecting significantly higher cash flow from operations partially offset by a $7 million increase in CapEx.
As discussed previously we expect significant free cash flow growth to continue in 2015 driven by operational and working capital improvements uses of cash for pension and restructuring continuing to wind down and lower cash tax payments.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility and the opportunity to further increase cash flow generation.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are four primary areas that are expected to contribute to our goal of doubling free cash flow from 2012 to more than $2.3 billion annually for the full-year 2017.
From the graph on the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by over $650 million based only on our reduction in cash used for pension restructuring and CapEx.
Combined with operational improvement of the business lower cash taxes and working capital improvements we are well on track to achieve our expectations for substantial cash flow generation.
Regarding our pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed our plan to new entrants and frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly $96 million to $220 million in 2015 and continue to decline thereafter.
Regarding our restructuring program cash came in to $82 million in 2014.
As all charges related to the restructuring program have now been incurred we expect cash payments to decline by $51 million to approximately $31 million in 2015 and continue to decline significantly each year thereafter.
In summary we delivered a solid start to the year overcoming a significant headwind from foreign exchange translation.
Results reflect strong earnings growth and substantial free cash flow generation driven by continued organic growth in both segments underlying operational improvement and working capital improvements placing us firmly on track towards our goal of generating more than $2.3 billion of free cash flow for the full year 2017.
With a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we've positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation in 2015 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you ma'am.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Mr.
Adam Klauber.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Adam.
My first question is about the HR Cloud business.
We understand you've had some good-size wins in that business.
One is that true without mentioning the names? And two how does the pipeline look currently for more good-size clients? Adam it actually looks exceptionally positive.
We are very pleased with the investment in Europe as I described but that really is continuing to complement an already strong foundation we have in capability in workday implementation.
And it's gone exceptionally well.
And to describe sort of the opportunities here for clients it's greater flexibility great platform modifications over time evolution innovation brings a lot of things to the table on behalf of clients that are quite beneficial and we're very excited about it.
So very positive trajectory.
And I think you mentioned that that did help organic this quarter.
Is the nature of that business lumpier once you win these clients should it be more of a continual ramp up? It really is a more continual ramp up as you bring them online and service them over time.
And it had an impact on the quarter as  and will have on the year as we continue to succeed in the business.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the retiree exchange business I understand there is more activity in the public or municipal side of the market.
One is that true? And is that more off-season than the traditional exchange business? Well the public side has evolved as you watched in the press over time.
As we've focused on the private side of the business it's gone exceptionally well.
It really does complement a broad-based set of health solutions that we have and we've had some and continue to have significant wins both on the active and the retiree side.
And we saw a little bit of off cycle in the Q1 this report but that's going to as I said going to even out and really show up in the fourth quarter over time and will really normalize at that point.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you sir.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Dave Styblo of Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just wanted to follow up on that when you had just mentioned the significant wins I want to be clear is that something that you're talking about a rolling on to the 2015 plan year? Or you're in active negotiations and finalizing those deals such that it would impact 2016? And just broader could you talk to sort of what  how 2016 is shaping up? Are you at this point starting to see an inflection or pick up in actual enrollment? Yeah.
Just to sort of parse the questions.
The first question was around literally the workday implementation in Cloud and the implications and how it's going to evolve over time as that was coming online.
The second  which will show up in the year  and the second was what showed up in the first quarter which was on the retiree exchange some really follow-on applications that happened in the first quarter from our fourth quarter work last year.
And that's going to continue to ramp up over time.
And what you've seen on the exchange business for us is as part of our overall health solutions capability that's just continuing to build and will continue to do so.
It still will continue to be fourth quarter dominated as it comes online and we'll just continue to see very very good progress in that.
Okay.
And as far as the inflection for 2016 is that something you're starting to see at this point? Or how  obviously conversations continue to be active and robust and that tone seems to be similar but just curious of the enrollment outlook for 2016? Yeah.
The pipeline continues to be very strong.
A lot of great conversations across the board on both the active exchange and retiree exchange.
And as I described in my comments the impact here has been substantial.
In particular the impact on for us the employee satisfaction levels have been exceptionally high the opportunity to actually bend the cost curve very very positive from that standpoint.
And we just have been very very fortunate in terms of sort of our client wins and how that's evolved over time and we'll report out in the third quarter as we complete the season.
But we continue to make progress.
Okay.
And then just flipping gears over to the international side of organic growth of 3%.
That seemed to hold up better than I thought it would in this environment.
Just want to ensure that there isn't any unusual benefits in the quarter from timing.
And assuming not can you just drill into and provide a little bit more color about what you're seeing in the market what you're doing to help maintain that decent organic growth that's going on right now? Well we really saw across the board really not just in Europe but also across the Americas if you think about sort of as I described before retention levels in U.S.
Retail were exceptionally high 93% almost near record levels.
And then Europe also reflects very very high retention levels.
And then efforts we've done around Client Promise the implementation of how we actually support and serve clients introduce new ideas to clients as their needs change over time.
And this has all been against a backdrop of the challenging pricing environment and an overall economic environment that's challenged.
But from our standpoint we view the opportunities in Europe and in the Americas as quite strong quite positive and our capability to serve them is quite high.
And that's really what's driven new business growth what's driven retention and what's driven the results.
And our view is we're going to continue to grow and build the business as we have for the last decade every year irrespective of the headwinds and that includes all the aforementioned FX our interest rates or economic conditions or pricing.
Super.
Thanks.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Brian Meredith of UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Greg I wonder if you could talk a little bit about or update us on progress on improving yield in the Risk Solutions business monetizing that GRIP asset that kind of stuff? So Brian we would say we continue to make very good progress and reflected in the performance as we grow and improve margin over time and what we've done on the data and analytics efforts here really is helping markets really our market partners understand and improve their return on invested capital and that's really fundamentally what GRIP is able to help us do.
And we've got 35 plus carriers who have actually signed on to this and fundamentally it helps them succeed in the business and we're essentially helping them match their capital with our demand in a more efficient and effective way and that's what the data and analytics has helped us do.
So it's progress.
We're strengthening the relationships as they evolve in that area and watch and see data and analytics will continue to be a stronger and stronger part of our value proposition.
It's complemented by the Singapore Innovation Center and the Dublin Innovation Centers which we've brought online.
And you see it show up in the marketplace in areas like the Risk Insight platform like Review which we've done on the reinsurance side very very strong very very positive and this is an area of substantial investment for Aon.
And in many respects we believe we've got an unprecedented level of data but we need to translate that into true insight and action for our clients and if our clients can take that data and insight and improve operating performance strengthen their balance sheet or reduce volatility we provided something to the market no one else can do and we believe that's distinctive.
That is sustainable and that's going to create value for them and for us.
Just on the yield also I mean given that we're in a competitive and softening market have you been able to boost commission rates or do other things to perhaps offset some of the price declines? Yeah.
We've done a number of different things to again come back to add value for clients and help them understand it and get paid for that and do the same on the market side.
So in the overall environment this all translates and shows up in the Risk Solutions margin which we would say we're going to continue to improve in 2015 just as we did in 2014 and 2013 as we march toward our 26%.
So you'll see us actually drive  taking  pulling a number of different levers to do that this being one of them.
Got you.
And then just quickly on HR Solutions Christa the margins actually ex FX actually improved on a year-over-year basis.
I would have thought per your guidance they would have actually declined.
Was there something unusual that happened in the quarter? Yeah.
You're right.
It did improve 10 basis points on an underlying basis.
We did see some timing between Q1 and Q2 Brian and what we would say is that the first half is going to be down exactly in line with guidance and the second half up in operating income to grow overall operating income and margin for the full year.
Got you.
So a little bit tougher in the second quarter? Great.
That's right.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Dan Farrell of Piper Jaffray.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
Just back on the Risk Solutions margins Greg when you  in your prepared comments you talked about ongoing investment in that business to drive organic and then drive improved operating leverage.
Do you think investments in that business right now are running higher than you ultimately think they will be? And then is there anything else to be thinking about from a mix perspective in Risk Solutions that might be impacting margins say whether it be Reinsurance macro pressures there or something like that? Thank you.
Well we would  look back we are going to continue to make investments to sort of build and strengthen the business.
As we said before we want to do this while at the same time making meaningful progress and improving risk brokerage margin marching toward the 26%.
And so we're going just to keep doing that.
And the investments actually happened across the business.
They've happened on the Retail side of the business as we've invested in data and analytics as I described before the Singapore Innovation Center our Dublin Innovation Center these are very very substantial investments for us which drive the Risk Insight Platform on the Retail side.
We've invested in new product ideas in Structured Portfolio Solutions a whole series of things we've done fundamentally to strengthen the value proposition that we provide to clients.
If they understand it and it provides value in their business we're going to  it's going to help improve Aon's performance.
We've made equal and substantial investments across the Reinsurance side of the portfolio as well and we continue to do that.
And while certainly well publicized Reinsurance is under some pressure given capital coming into the marketplace and pricing dynamics particularly in the cat business we love the business.
We love what we're doing on the Reinsurance side.
Our capability to help insurers improve their return on invested capital and their performance we believe is high and even unprecedented from an Aon Benfield standpoint.
We're number one in treaty we're number one in fac we're number one in capital markets and the things we do around  with new capital coming in the industry.
And so you're going to see us continue to invest.
There is not a  it's not a high or a low it's a steady set of investments we make over time that we believe will help us build the business and we're going to continue to do that.
While at the same time we are very clear we need to overcome headwinds that are out there as we've done over time.
This year we're talking about FX.
In previous years it might have been interest rates or might have been the economy or it might have been pricing.
We're going to overcome those grow margin and invest in the business for the long term.
Got it.
Thanks.
That's very helpful.
And just to follow up some of your competitors have talked about needing to achieve a certain level of organic growth say in the 2% to 3% range before operating leverage can start to fully materialize.
Is that something conceptually that you guys sort of agree with when you think about margin expansion? I guess what we would say is because of the investments we've made in data analytics as Greg described there's less of an organic revenue growth number we need to expand margins.
I would note that in calendar year 2009 in the depth of the economic recession organic revenue growth for us was minus 1% and we expanded margins.
Having said that if you look at our expense base the primary expense we have in the business is people and there is an inherent inflationary push let's call it 2% on that expense base and so that is absolutely a challenge we acknowledge.
But we also see that the return on the significant investments we've made in data and analytics allows us to expand margin in lower-growth environments.
This fundamentally Dan comes back to Brian's question around margin and this idea of operational leverage.
It's very important as you think about our performance versus the rest of the world right now.
These investments we're making fundamentally give us the ability to both strengthen our franchise which is really what we have to do but also with the operating leverage accompanying the investments around data and analytics in particular we can improve margin at lower levels of organic growth.
By the way it's not to mean we're focused on lower levels.
We have high aspirations on growing the business.
But the operational leverage in the business continues to grow.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is coming from Miss Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
Ma'am your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just a few questions.
The first in terms of foreign exchange I know the hit was obviously a bit larger than expected in the first quarter and you guys had previously guided to about $0.11 for the full year.
What do you think the full year level will come in at given how you set expectations for the balance of the year? Yeah.
So FX is coming in a little bit higher in terms of the impact than we previously guided because since we guided last time the euro in particular has declined versus the U.S.
dollar.
What we did say Elyse is that we'll have a modest unfavorable impact in each quarter in the balance of the year most significantly in Q2 and Q3.
Okay.
And then in terms of looking at the share repurchase I know Q1 is a high cash usage quarter.
If we're thinking about how you might  the share repurchase level in the next few quarters how do you kind of think about in terms of a go-forward level on your capital management outlook for the year? Yeah.
So we're not giving specific guidance Elyse but what we would say is as you think about our free cash flow sort of growth it's going to be substantial in the rest of the year.
And obviously it's been significant in Q1 already and we expect to grow free cash flow for the year.
And as EBITDA continues to grow we're very focused on our investment grade rating but we would continue to increase debt in line with EBITDA growth.
And so if you think about sort of the overall cash we then have to deploy we use a return on capital basis to deploy across all forms of capital usage and share repurchase is definitely the highest return on capital we observe at this time.
And so we'll continue to deploy capital based on that.
On the retiree exchange the off-cycle enrollment just so I understand correctly was that included in the enrollment figures in terms of the number of companies and the number of lives you guys had provided in September of last year for the 2015 year? It was.
There's really in many respects there's really no real new news here from the standpoint this is just the current existing set of clients we brought online and we just had a few of the enrollments move over to the first quarter.
It's going to  relatively small and this will balance itself out by Q4 and as we go forward.
And it really is a little bit of off-cycle with that as well.
Okay.
And then one last question you mention a decline in capital markets business within your Reinsurance segment in the quarter just was the last Q1 a higher volume quarter so it was a tough comp? I'm just kind of curious especially we've heard a lot going on in the capital markets space why you might have seen a slowdown in the first quarter of this year so any more information there would be helpful.
Thank you.
Well top line it really was.
We had a strong comparable quarter so that's a little bit of what was going on from that standpoint a little bit of timing.
But when you think about the capital coming in we don't want to minimize that.
There's still tremendous capital coming in $60 billion plus sort of come into the market right now.
We anticipate more over time.
We again see lots of opportunity with that.
I would just highlight in a little bit of the dynamics that as the treaty pricing comes down it looks more it looks like more attractive relative to capital markets.
So there's a little bit less of a  a little bit more of a balance than there was before.
I wouldn't overplay it but we saw a little bit of that show up in the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ma'am.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Would it be possible to sort of quantify the aggregate FX impact for the rest of the year just so we can have an idea of what that might look like? I mean relative to the first quarter if we're saying it was $50 million or whatever it was in the first quarter like how should we be thinking about that number just the notional number for the rest of the year? Thanks.
So Michael what we can say is that the FX impact by quarter for the rest of the year will be substantially less than what we observed in Q1.
It's going to be a modest unfavorable impact in Q2 Q3 and Q4 primarily in Q2 and Q3.
Okay.
But in the aggregate just notionally is it much smaller across the three quarters than the first quarter or...? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
And then one question on the tax rate should we assume that the tax rate at the current level is that something that you guys feel is sustainable longer term? That we should assume that that is sort of the run rate? What are the factors that could impact that either reverting or going lower? Michael as we've said previously 19% is the right operational rate for the company going forward.
We do believe it's sustainable and that's the operational rate we're using for the company going forward.
So we would expect that to be the best guide for you to use.
Things that could impact it going forward are discrete tax adjustments and they could be positive or negative in any one quarter.
But we would expect that 19% is the underlying operational rate for the company.
Got it great.
And then I've asked this question before I wonder if it'd be possible just sort of thinking about the HR segment I mean obviously you're making a lot of investments and you're making them with an eye on operating leverage in the future.
Is there a way to think about the difference between or can you give us some context on how we might be able to think about a contribution margin if you will relative to an operating margin in that segment? And maybe with regard to the private exchange element in particular but just as we think about that segment is there a way to sort of peel those two out separately just to get an idea of what they look like? And Michael I think what you're getting to is sort of the investments we're making around the healthcare exchange and how to think about the return on that versus everything else.
Is that right? Yeah that's fair.
Yeah.
And so look one way to think about it is if you've added up the numbers we've invested in healthcare exchanges call it about $100 million.
And so if you wanted to take that out of the current base it would improve operational margins by about 200 basis points is one way to think about it.
But obviously the return on that investment is going to be significant over time.
We obviously mentioned that we made a loss in that business in 2014 and that we would continue to improve returns on it each year going forward.
If you think about the improvement in operating income we made in both calendar year 2013 and 2014 in the HR Solutions business we're clearly overcoming a significant investment we're making in healthcare exchanges by the growth in our Consulting business which is exceptionally strong particularly around as Greg described pension de-risking and investment consulting as well as the improvement in the rest of our Outsourcing business.
So those two things are improving whilst we're continuing to make investments in exchanges.
Got it.
And so like this year if we think about this year investments should we be thinking about that relative to that sort of $100 million or is that  was that a bigger number and that number sort of scaling down as you start to scale up on exchanges for example? Yeah.
Here's what I would say and I did say this last quarter.
As we think about the investment we've made in exchanges it's really an operating expense.
It's not a capital expense that's one time.
It's really people and technology.
And so you should think about that $100 million level as the right ongoing level going forward.
And then it's really about incremental revenue and to drive an improved return on that underlying operating expense because we would say that we've largely scaled the exchanges at the end of 2014.
And from here we're now going to add incremental revenue and incremental cost as we bring new clients on but not those sort of significant investments we've made historically.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
And the first question is just could you give a little bit color on the other income line? It looks like it's pretty lumpy from quarter to quarter.
How should we think about that going forward? Yeah.
So what we would say is it is obviously very lumpy and we in our sort of budgeting process model it at zero because we're essentially  it should be zero unless we monetize unproductive capital or sell a business which we deem as lower return or less of a strategic fit to Aon which is what you saw in the quarter.
And so I would say the $19 million of gains I would say is lumpy and almost impossible to model so we do model that internally at zero.
The $23 million of FX impact on our assets and liabilities and foreign currency and the hedging gain I would say I net that myself against the $53 million of FX impact on operating income we had say we had a net impact of minus $30 million on our business in terms of operating income from FX.
So I guess I view it as two different ways if that makes sense to you.
Okay.
That's good.
And then looking underlying basically you're taking off $0.15 of foreign exchange impact and then probably the $0.12 gain on the other income line.
So you look at underlying probably run at $1.40 EPS.
That compares $1.28 last year.
So year-over-year growth is about 9%.
It sounds like a much lower than if you look back the historical last eight quarter average about 16%.
I just wonder is there any sort of seasonality in the first quarter or you think like we should still be able to sustain a double-digit EPS growth going forward? Yeah.
Look I wouldn't over-rotate (47:48) on one quarter.
As you correctly observe we had the most significant FX impact in Q1 and we're going to have a lot smaller FX impact through the balance of the year so I'd focus much more on the full year.
And we do expect significant EPS growth for the full year.
As you've seen we've done 16% EPS growth CAGR over the last 10 years and so we feel really good about the earnings growth of calendar year 2015 and beyond.
And obviously and most importantly about how that translates through to free cash flow.
We're going to see substantial free cash flow growth in 2015 on track to our $2.3 billion in free cash flow for the full year 2017.
Okay.
Well lastly just follow on the buyback question like the first quarter seasonal weak but last year you did like $600 million as well so just wonder the pace of buyback would be sustainable at least at the level of last year given that your free cash flow is growing and also you can also elaborate a little bit more on the debt side? Yes.
So again I wouldn't sort of like over-project on one quarter.
I would note that in Q1 2014 we did utilize cash on the balance sheet at year-end 2013 which was much higher than normal and so we had about $300 million almost $400 million of excess cash on the balance sheet at year-end 2013 which contributed to higher than normal share repurchase in Q1 2014.
Great.
Well thanks so much for all the answers.
Thank you sir.
Our last question is coming from Mr.
Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Well thank you for getting me on the phone.
I appreciate it.
I know that you're interested in growing free cash flow in addition to operating cash flow by lowering your working capital.
I was wondering if you could put some numbers around the scale of what you can do? And also last year the spread between receivables and payables went unfavorable for you.
I assume you were working on it.
What are the pitfalls and obstacles to making that happen? Yeah.
So as we think about free cash flow growth for calendar year 2015 we think there are four major contributors to it.
The first is improvement in operating income and that's obviously driven by revenue growth and margin expansion.
The second is decreased contributions to pension and restructuring.
The third is improvements in working capital.
And the fourth is declining taxes.
And so as we think about those for the full year Josh we look then again to sort of the growth in free cash flow for the quarter of  free cash flow grew $140 million.
And the two biggest contributors to that free cash flow growth for the quarter were pension and restructuring contributions declining by $89 million and working capital improvements of $63 million.
And then to answer your specific question about working capital in 2014 I would note that we had substantial improvement in working capital in 2013 and that really created a headwind for 2014.
And as you said it's a continued progress and we expect to have substantial cash flow growth from all four metrics as we drive towards the $2.3 billion in free cash flow for 2017.
But you really are highlighting an area that as you think about the new news over the last 12 months to 18 months it really is the projections and the perspectives around how we're going to be able to build free cash flow in addition to what we do from an operating standpoint.
And the move to $2.3 billion by 2017 as Christa highlights is a substantial substantial improvement.
Another doubling since 2012 which we believe really underscores the power of the franchise.
Inc.</span></strong> Certainly.
Certainly.
And just to understand the $63 million of improvement that's going to jump around quarter-to-quarter it may be positive it may be negative.
But is the $63 million is that a really good quarter for improvement to think about? Or is that what you think you can deliver for the foreseeable future all things being equal? How should we think about the scope? Yeah.
So we obviously think it was a strong performance in terms of working capital.
As we look at that $63 million we're looking at three lines on the balance sheet our cash flow receivables payables and other assets and liabilities.
But we really think about cash flow growth for the full-year and so we're looking at substantial free cash flow growth for the full-year 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
But there's no guidance though around how we should think about just the payables receivables part? Look we will continue to expect that we will improve cash flow from receivables and payables.
We haven't given specific guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
Thanks very much for joining us.
We look forward to our next call.
Thanks very much.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to Aon Plc's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all parties will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
If anyone has an objection you may disconnect your line at this time.
I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our second quarter 2015 press release as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Plc.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</strong> Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
And welcome to our second quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
And I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover two areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders and second is overall organic growth performance including continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to slide three in the second quarter organic revenue growth was 2% overall with growth across both segments highlighted by 4% growth in the Americas' retail brokerage business.
Operating margin increased 80 basis points reflecting strong operating performance in Risk Solutions.
EPS increased 5% to $1.31 including $0.08 unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation reflecting growth operating improvement and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow increased 2% to $223 million year-to-date driven by a 10% increase in cash flow from operations partially offset by higher capital expenditures.
Turning to slide four on the second topic of growth and investment.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 2% overall compared to 1% in the prior year quarter reflecting solid growth across retail brokerage partially offset by a modest decline in Reinsurance.
As we discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives and making strategic investments that are strengthening underlying performance and position our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with management of our renewal book through Aon Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average across retail brokerage.
New business generation of more than $216 million across our retail business 17 consecutive quarters of net new business trends in core treaty reinsurance an increased operating leverage from our investments in innovative technology and data and analytics including the Global Risk Insight Platform which now captures over 2.8 million trades and $135 billion of bound premium with more than 40 carriers utilizing the platform today.
Review our reinsurer dashboard combined with strategic consulting tells reinsurers to be more effective markets for ceding company clients.
And our Aon Broking initiative to better match client need with insurer appetite for risk and to indemnify structured portfolio solutions.
And finally we're expanding our content and global footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within risk solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 4% compared to 2% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact on pricing was modestly negative resulting in continued stable market impact.
We saw strong growth across Latin America reflecting both double-digit new business generation and strong management of the renewal book portfolio.
We also generated strong growth across our Affinity business.
And in U.S.
Retail we saw solid new business generation with record retention of greater than 93% for the second consecutive quarter.
In International organic revenue growth was 2%.
Exposures continue to be stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile market conditions in many countries across Europe and pressure in the Pacific region.
We saw strong growth across Asia with double-digit growth in many countries including Hong Kong China Japan and Singapore.
Results also reflect solid growth in New Zealand driven by both new business generation and strong management of the renewal book portfolio.
In Continental Europe new business generation continued to be positive.
And with strong leadership across the region we're well positioned to benefit from potential improvements in the macroeconomic environment.
In Reinsurance organic revenue declined 1% compared to a decline of 4% in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect a significant unfavorable market impact in the quarter as excess capital in the space continues to pressure global treaty pricing.
We saw continued new business generation in treaty placements as clients take advantage of lower pricing by purchasing more coverage and strong growth in facultative placements partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions.
And while the rate of price decline is decelerated compared to the previous year a record amount of capital continues to place pressure on the market.
And finally new opportunities for growth combined with industry-leading data and analytics is positioning the business for a return to growth over the next 12 months.
Overall across Risk Solutions we are on track for low- to mid-single digit organic growth for the full-year 2015 as we continue to drive new business generation strong retention and take a unified approach to serving clients across the portfolio with industry-leading data and analytics.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Organic revenue growth was 2% similar to the prior-year quarter with growth across both major businesses and in high demand areas where we have invested in innovative solutions and client-serving capability.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership and in-depth understanding and influence of market trends including continued investment to strengthen our comprehensive portfolio of health solutions covering the full spectrum of benefit strategies and funding choices from self-insured to fully insured.
This includes our industry-leading position in healthcare exchanges for active employees and retirees and we look forward to updating you on our continued progress later this year.
Solutions to de-risk pension plans and support for delegated investment solutions as clients manage risks against pension schemes that are frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes.
Investment in Software-as-a-Service models in our HR BPO business.
And finally we're expanding our international footprint to support a global workforce at the local level with investments in key talent and capabilities across emerging markets.
Turning to individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 3% compared to 1% in the prior-year quarter.
We saw continued growth in retirement consulting driven by demand for delegated investment consulting services.
Results also reflect solid growth and compensation consulting and modest growth in communications consulting.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 3% similar to the prior year quarter.
We saw growth in HR BPO driven by new client wins in cloud-based solutions.
Results also reflect growth in benefits administration driven by demand for discretionary services.
Overall for HR Solutions we are on track for mid-single digit organic growth for the full year 2015 driven by growth in high demand areas where we made investments as well as leadership across our core businesses.
In summary our industry-leading platform of client-serving capabilities across Risk and HR Solutions combined with investments in data and analytics continues to position the firm for long-term organic growth and improved operating leverage.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa.
Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our second quarter results reflect double-digit adjusted EPS growth when excluding the impact of FX driven by organic growth in both Risk and HR Solutions strong operating margin improvement and effective capital management including the repurchase of approximately 300 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
Now let me turn to financial results for the quarter on page six of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 5% to $1.31 per share for the second quarter compared to $1.25 in the prior-year quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on page 12 of the press release include non-cash intangible asset amortization and legacy litigation expenses relating to events that primarily occurred 10 or more years ago.
Further included in the results was an $0.08 per share unfavorable impact related to foreign currency translation due to the U.S.
dollar strengthening against most major currencies.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation our core earnings per share in the second quarter would have been $1.39 up 11% from the prior-year quarter.
Going forward if currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a similar impact in Q3 and a lesser impact in Q4 as we continue to work through unfavorable year-over-year headwinds.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 2%.
Operating margin increased 150 basis points to 24.2% and operating income was roughly flat to the prior-year quarter.
Operating income included a $26 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding this impact operating income increased 6% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Strong operating margin improvement of 150 basis points reflects solid organic revenue growth return on our investments in data and analytics across the portfolio and a 60 basis point favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding the favorable impact from foreign currency translation underlying operating margin improved 90 basis points in the quarter.
Overall in Q2 we delivered strong underlying operating performance in Risk Solutions despite continued headwinds from an unfavorable market impact in Reinsurance fragile market conditions in Europe and historically low interest rates.
If interest rates were to rise we believe we have significant leverage through improving interest rate environment as every 100 basis point rise in global interest rates should result in approximately $45 million of investment income.
For the first six months operating margin improved 50 basis points with no material impact from foreign currency translation.
This places us firmly on track for further margin expansion in 2015 towards our long-term target of 26% driven by growth return on investments and expense discipline as we optimize our global cost structure in areas such as IT real estate and procurement.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 2% operating margin was flat at 13.2% and operating income was also roughly flat to the prior-year quarter.
Solid organic revenue growth expense discipline and a 10 basis point favorable impact from foreign currency translation were offset by continued investments to support future growth.
For the first six months results reflect modestly better than expected performance.
Combined with our outlook for seasonal strength in the second half of the year we are well on track for improved operating income performance for the full year and further margin expansion towards our long-term target of 22%.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on slide nine.
Unallocated expenses were flat at $41 million; interest income increased $2 million to $4 million; interest expense increased $3 million to $68 million due to an increase in total debt outstanding.
Other income of $1 million primarily includes net gains from certain long-term investments and the sale of certain businesses.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $45 million per quarter of unallocated expense $2 million per quarter of interest income.
Interest expense in the third quarter is expected to be approximately $72 million or modestly higher than our run rate due to the overlap of the $600 million of notes placed in May to replace the notes due in September.
We would expect interest expense to decline to $68 million per quarter thereafter.
Turning to taxes the adjusted effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations excluding the applicable tax impact associated with expenses related to legacy litigation increased to 18% compared to the prior year quarter at 17.5%.
The prior-year quarter was favorably impacted by certain discrete tax adjustments.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 286.7 million in the second quarter compared to 301.6 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased 3 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $300 million in the second quarter.
The company has $5.1 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on June 30 were 279.8 million and there are approximately 7 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q3 2015 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 287 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our solid balance sheet and strong cash flow growth on slide 10.
At June 30 2015 cash and short-term investments were $851 million.
Total debt outstanding increased to approximately $6.1 billion and total debt-to-EBITDA on a GAAP basis increased to 2.5 times compared to 2.1 times at March 31 2015.
Cash flow from operations increased 10% or $32 million to $365 million driven by decline in pension contributions restructuring and cash paid for taxes partially offset by a significant increase in cash paid to settle legacy litigation.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 2% or $5 million to $223 million reflecting higher cash flow from operations partially offset by a $27 million increase in CapEx.
The anticipated increase in capital expenditure is associated with investment in certain real estate projects as we continue to optimize our real estate portfolio globally.
Looking forward we expect significant free cash flow growth in the second half of the year leading to double digit growth in free cash flow for the full year 2015 including the legacy litigation impact.
The increase in cash paid to settle legacy litigation in the quarter will provide a tailwind to free cash flow growth in 2016.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility and the opportunity to further increase cash flow generation.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are four primary areas that are expected to contribute to our goal of delivering $2.3 billion or more for the full the year 2017.
From the graph in the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by approximate $230 million from year-end 2014 to year-end 2017 based only on a reduction in cash used for pensions restructuring and capital expenditure.
Combined with operating improvements in the business lower cash tax payments and working capital improvements we have line of sight to achieve our expectations for substantial cash flow generation.
Regarding our pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants and frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly $96 million to $220 million in 2015 and continue to decline thereafter.
These expectations assume no change in current interest rates.
A rise in global interest rates could potentially decrease contributions further.
Regarding our restructuring program cash payments were $82 million in 2014.
As all charges related to the restructuring program have now been incurred we expect cash payments to decline by $49 million to approximately $33 million in 2015 and continue to decline each year thereafter.
In summary we delivered positive performance across each of our key metrics overcoming a significant headwind from foreign currency translation.
We delivered strong underlying earnings growth as we continue to manage expense and create greater operating leverage from our investment in data and analytics.
Combined with strong free cash flow growth in the second half and for the full year we are firmly on track towards our goal of generating more than $2.3 billion of free cash flow for the full year 2017.
With a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we have positioned the firm for significant shareholder creation in 2015 and beyond.
With that I would like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
One moment please for our first question.
Our first question came from the line of Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Hi Adam.
On HR Solutions Christa you mentioned that you expect solid margin expansion and growth in income.
Can we expect just  not exactly  but the range of incremental change we saw in 2014 to be roughly around the same in 2015 for both the margin and income? We haven't given specific guidance on operating income growth for 2015.
What we can say Adam is we believe we will deliver mid-single digit revenue growth operating income growth and margin expansion for the full year and you've seen us do that in both 2013 and 2014 in HR Solutions and we're well on track to deliver that for 2015.
Okay.
Okay.
And then as far as health exchanges selling season isn't done yet but can you comment on I guess activity in selling season in 2015 versus 2014? Is activity around the same better or worse just as far as the flow of opportunities? And also how big of a deal is the Cadillac tax in conversations this year? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Well Adam let's start really with the overall topic here is really around health solutions when you think about what's out there and we continue to see strong interest across-the-board whether they're exchange solutions or bundled solutions for that matter.
And this is really across all client segments needs et cetera.
And so from our standpoint there's been a lot of interest continues to be a lot of interest in the pipeline around these sets of discussions.
And it really gets to your second part of your question around what's driving it.
It's really demand.
Overall health continues to deteriorate a bit and per unit cost healthcare continues to go up.
And against that our clients are struggling to try to deliver for their employees in the best way they possibly can but also try to bend the cost curve a bit.
Cadillac tax is out there on the horizon.
One doesn't know exactly how it's going to get resolved but it certainly represents another piece of potential risk and challenge for them.
So all these things are a bit of a catalyst to have clients really try to address these issues and try to understand how they can bring best solutions for it.
And from our standpoint we administer health benefits for 10 million covered lives 1.2 million of which are on the exchange.
By the way that's self-insured and fully insured.
And we see a lot of positive activity against that and expect that'll continue into 2016 2017 and 2018 as well Okay.
And then finally I think you mentioned that you expect strong free cash in the back half.
Is that potentially we'll see corresponding pick-up in share repurchase in the back half also? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Dave Styblo of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Sure.
I want to start out just again kind of focusing a little bit more on the second half.
I know we just talked about HR Solutions and organic growth mid-single digits that implies an acceleration.
Can you just parse back some of the driver there? Is that some exchange-related activity or other things that you're seeing in the pipeline since the comps are pretty tough year-over-year on that.
And then also on the other side of the business in Risk Solutions can you maybe just give us a little bit more of a range of how you're thinking about the organic growth and especially how Reinsurance fits into that? I think I heard you say that you expect growth to improve but I wasn't really clear if that was more imminent or something a little bit longer term.
Sure.
So Dave I'll start on HR Solutions.
Our HR Solutions business the seasonality of that business is always second half weighted and will remain that way for the foreseeable future for us in both the consulting and the outsourcing businesses.
So in the consulting business you did see a change in patterning last year particularly around compensation consulting.
And so you'll see that happen predominantly in the second half of the year.
And then obviously on the outsourcing side our healthcare exchange business is a much more Q4-weighted activity.
And so the patterning you saw in 2014 and 2013 will repeat in 2015 meaning the revenue growth is much more second half weighted.
So that definitely is why we feel very good about the growth in the second half of the year and we can see that in our pipeline today.
On the Risk side I would say similarly we feel really good about the Risk growth.
And we're on track for low- to mid-single digits in Risk Solutions overall.
And as Greg said Risk growth in the first half of 2015 was better than Risk growth in the first half of 2014.
And so we're well on track to deliver great growth across Risk Solutions.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> I wouldn't add much to that David.
If you think about the quarter Christa was describing we essentially  it's another of quarter progress.
Our view is we're going to deliver exactly  nothing has happened in the first half of the year that changes our view for the full year so this is a low- to mid-single-digit range.
I would say from an Aon Benfield standpoint you'll note my comments I said this is a sector that obviously has been under some pressure given frankly our tremendous position in it and the price pressure that's been on it.
But we've talked about this segment returning to growth in 2016 and we anticipate it's going to do that and also see a number of the investments we've made in the business to create operating leverage in fact doing exactly that.
So I'd point to the 4% organic in the Americas and in particular the U.S.
number around 93% retention for the second consecutive quarter.
This is actually tremendous progress and we think that's going to continue.
All these things are to just underscore and increase our confidence and our ability to deliver the growth targets we talked about at the beginning of the year.
Excellent.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just piggybacking off the Risk conversation there maybe it's attributable to the higher retention as well of some of the programs that have been going on and investing in but the margins were up very nice year-over-year I think 150 basis points to 90 excluding FX.
Can you spike out anything unusual one-timers either last year to remind us or this year besides the core improvement that you're doing? And on the core side is that more of a function of the Aon Broking initiative or the revenue engine to get a higher share of wallet? Or are there other contributors that are helping just strictly on the operating expense side? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The key message I think you started with is foremost here which is we will continue to invest in the business improve operating leverage and increase margins as a result of that.
And we're able to do that if  at each incremental level of growth  and you're seeing us actually play that out.
We'd highlight by the way this is about a year for us.
It's not about a single quarter.
On a single quarter 150 basis points is correct but by the way we'd back out all the FX pieces against it and say it's closer to 90 basis points for the quarter but really 50 basis points for the first half.
So our view is we're making good solid progress on margin improvement.
We are going to continue to do that through the course of 2015.
And what this quarter did was it didn't change our expectation just reinforced our ability to do that on our march toward 26%.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the free cash flow.
You're obviously reaffirming that for 2017 and that's in light of the FX headwinds and the challenging macro backdrop when you initially set the guidance.
I'm wondering relative to your initial expectations have you had material upside to what you were originally thinking? And I'm also wondering how bad conditions might need to get for you to fall short of that free cash flow goal.
In other words maybe you can give us a little more color about the assumptions for organic growth FX and margin expansion within that for 2017.
Yeah.
Certainly.
And so we feel really confident about our ability to deliver on the $2.3 billion-plus of free cash flow in calendar year 2017.
And there are really four big drivers of that: continued organic growth and margin expansion of the business; declining cash contributions to pension; restructuring and tax; and then improvements in working capital.
And we feel really good about the improvements we're making in the first half of 2015 with 2% growth in free cash flow.
And we're on track to do double-digit free cash flow growth in 2015 including the litigation settlements and we'll have extremely strong cash flow growth in 2016 and 2017.
So we feel really good about the path there.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> And in respect  if you think about the quarter  the new news for the quarter is this continued positive sort of progress on the cash-generating capability as Christa's describing.
So overall top-line revenue exactly where we thought it would be same with margin but the cash flow generating engine against all the headwinds you've highlighted candidly continues to strengthen and we see that continuing through 2015 and in 2016 and 2017.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Sarah Dewitt of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Hi Sarah.
On the share buybacks how should we think about the pace of that for the rest of the year and should the full year 2015 be lower than the full year 2014 given where we're running year-to-date? Yes.
So full year 2015 share repurchase should be lower than 2014 because if you recall Sarah there were two unusual sort of sources of cash which contributed to higher than normal share repurchase than 2014.
The first was we had $300 million of excess cash on the balance sheet at year-end 2013 which we used in share repurchase in the first quarter of 2014.
And the second was we increased leverage during the year by $1.1 billion.
And so share repurchase for the full year 2015 will be lower but as I described earlier I think our cash flow is seasonally higher in the second half of any calendar year and therefore we expect stronger share repurchase in the second half of the year.
Okay great.
And then on the private health exchanges could you just talk a little bit qualitatively how the selling season is going? It sounds like we're hearing from others that maybe some large employers might be deferring or you might be seeing more adoption on self-insured exchanges versus fully insured.
So if you could talk about any of those trends that'd be helpful.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah we would say overall Sarah as I mentioned before really for us this is about a comprehensive set of health solutions  and those conversations be they fully insured exchanges self-insured exchanges traditional self-insured bundles the intensity of those discussions has remained very very strong and continue into 2015 and we anticipate into 2016 and 2017.
And the pipeline continues to be also quite strong across the board.
But again we're building a long-term platform here and for us it's not  it's even not as much about the selling season as it was before because we're seeing more clients talk about off-cycle adoption and the different solutions.
What the clients are looking for is a way a solution to try to manage against what is an increasing level of costs and a set of promises they made to employees that they really want to keep and we're trying to help them do that.
So the intensity of those conversations and the opportunity candidly for us to help them solve and address those issues continues to be very strong.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
My first question I guess going back to the HR Solutions segment.
Through the first half of the year the earnings in that segment seems to be trending better than you planned.
Was there anything kind of seasonal or one-off in the Q2? And then does that kind of change your outlook for where you were thinking about that business at the start of the year maybe expecting stronger growth in the second half? Yeah.
Great question Elyse.
I think we had originally guided to down in operating income in the first half of the year and up in the second half of the year so strong operating income growth for the full year 2015.
And I think the first half of the year was slightly better than our expectations.
And I think we are still on track for exactly what we guided for the full year so I wouldn't change our full-year guidance at all.
I think it was just slightly better and I wouldn't point to any significant items.
There was a range of smaller things that were slightly better than we expected.
Okay.
And then on the tax rate the adjusted rate was about 18% in the quarter and when we think of  actually it was down from that 19% that you guys had kind of pointed to.
In terms of modeling for the tax rate going forward would you change from the 19% or is there anything that kind of lowered that slightly in the quarter? Great question Elyse.
Ongoing operational rate remains at 19% subject to discrete tax adjustments.
We did have some positive discrete tax adjustments in Q2 which made the rate lower than that 19% guidance but that is exactly where we remain.
Okay.
And then back on Risk Solutions in terms of you guys kind of pointed to what seems like a little bit of improvement in organic revenue growth in the back half of the year since you did say Reinsurance has most likely declined until we hit 2016 what type of improvement are you expecting in the retail I guess from the about 2% growth we've seen in the first half of the year? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Elyse we're still similar  this is similar to the HR Solutions story.
We're exactly in the same place around  an expectation for the year around low- to mid-single digit organic growth on the Risk side.
And again what we said is what this quarter did was just reinforce our confidence in the ability to achieve that.
And then I pointed the longer term trends on the Reinsurance side where we really see this business returning to growth in 2016.
But our 2015 expectations remain exactly the same.
Again with the new news of the quarter being just a reinforcement of the cash generating engine of Aon and how it's evolving.
Okay.
And then lastly on the private health care exchanges we've seen an acquisition announced recently between Willis and Towers Watson.
Do you expect there to be I guess any impact on what you're doing on the private health care exchange front from those two companies getting together? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> I would say from our stand and point of view if you think about the overall events recent events really across the board not just in our space but in the markets as well again we see them as reinforcing and in many respects making more relevant the strategy we put in place and we've been pursuing really for the last 10 years.
If you think about industry consolidation M&amp;A the risk markets the health markets consolidation and intermediaries as well as the challenges frankly our clients are facing in things like cyber globalization all these things have puts and takes.
No doubt about it.
But when you put them together the overall sum in our view they reinforce our strategy to be the preeminent firm focused on risk and people.
On the consolidating intermediaries from our standpoint highlights the recognition by other players in our space they're seen exactly today what we saw 10 years ago.
And we've been investing behind it for the last decade and we believe the trends are real and make great opportunities for all of us.
And on the consolidating market side that's out there both on the health and the risk side we see this as a great opportunity to bring better and more relevant solutions to our clients.
So in many respects we see change as opportunity and we're very well positioned to take advantage of it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Brian Meredith of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
A couple of quick questions here for you all.
The first one Christa the cash impact of the litigation charge in the quarter was the same as the earnings impact? Not exactly.
There's some timing elements of that.
So I think the cash impact I'd think about over the course of the full year.
You've got obviously tax affects the expenses that we've got there.
Any guidance just so I know what the impact on free cash flow was in the quarter just for modeling purposes? Yeah.
I mean the way I'd think about it is for the full year just use the after-tax impact of the costs.
For the full year.
Okay.
Great.
And then the second question on the exchanges just what does the consolidation we're seeing in the healthcare insurance industry mean for your exchange? I know  because a big part of it is the competition and them lowering the prices.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Well Brian from our standpoint as I said  just alluded to  for us capability on the market side the carrier side creates greater opportunity that we can bring on behalf of our clients.
What I'll highlight on the active side we've got 30 national regional carriers sort of in the mix on the exchange side and 90-plus carriers in the mix under retiree side.
So for us it's not about that individual level of competition we're creating that.
That's going to be there.
It's really more around fundamental capability and what these institutions bring to the table and we anticipate it's going to be stronger.
And to the extent there are three on the health side that's greater than $100-billion-plus  I'm assuming all those go through in the way planned  I'm sure they're going to be competing very very strongly with greater capability.
And we think that's going to bode well for our clients and again change and movement in the market actually benefits us tremendously if we're capable of bringing good solutions to our clients.
Okay.
And then Greg the last question I'm just curious.
There's always obviously competition for good talent within the insurance brokerage industry.
Are you seeing any pickup of late? I mean we've seen some fairly significant movements in the reinsurance brokerage area and some other companies talking about trying to invest in the business.
Is there any pickup right now do you think in the competition for talent? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Brian I really don't see it.
This is  we always want to be the best place possible  where someone can come and develop as a professional support (36:32) and serve clients.
And we've been talking about this for a long long time.
It's been part of our strategy for the last 10 years and we've seen opportunity over that entire period of time.
And sometimes it intensifies sometimes it wanes a bit but it's really been a constant.
And the M&amp;A activity obviously creates different opportunities but I wouldn't overplay it.
For us we're going to go after the best talent in the world to support our clients and that's not going to change for Aon.
Great.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is now open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Pardon me.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Greg you talked about tuck-in acquisitions being done.
Can you give us an update in terms of whether the pricing for the acquisitions that you're looking at whether that pricing is changing at all? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> I would say Meyer for us the overall marketplace continues to be very very competitive.
There's a lot of capital out there looking at different opportunities.
For us as Christa well described we remain constant here too.
Our view is around return on invested capital.
We're maniacally focused on bringing capability in Aon in a way that improves and then strengthens our return on invested capital.
Christa talked about what we're doing with buyback.
That's always a benchmark for us.
We've got to be able to beat that from a return on invested capital standpoint and that's how we think about our acquisitions.
And we see a very competitive market but we also see opportunity lots of different firms want to be part of a firm that can actually truly change the course of a client's performance and do this on a global basis.
And this is in many respects again back to the destination of choice for talent it's back to Brian's question a little bit.
We can be a very attractive place for those types of colleagues and for those types of firms.
And we're seeing that as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then real quickly in the slides the uses of cash slide no longer refers to 2018.
And I was hoping you could take us through why  how that decision was made? I think it's really just focused on 2017 because we've set a very specific goal of $2.3 billion of free cash flow.
So I think it was just more around reinforcing that Meyer.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So no change to the expectation beyond? No.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> No.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thank you.
So first question to follow up on the merger acquisition.
You have been say five years since your large acquisition of Hewitt back in 2010.
I just wonder are you interested or open to any big or transformative transactions that could enhance your franchise? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> So Kai for us again we  it's been the same strategy and approach  preeminent firm in the world focused on risk and people.
And we talked about categories around risk retirement health talent capital et cetera.
It's been a strategy we've worked on very very hard.
And we continue to add content capability around it both in organic investment which you see us make quite substantially exchanges risk insight platform review et cetera.
And then we add content capability in the form of M&amp;A when they can actually help us strengthen that platform.
By the way back to the question before around it's got to be  got to meet our return on invested capital requirements.
And so you'll see us kind of in the $200 million to $400 million $500 million a year bringing in capability like that around the world but we really like the platform we've got at this point and that's what we're focused on.
Okay.
That's great.
And then in the past I remember you talked about your private exchange platform that' basically you had said multi-carrier and fully insured.
But in the commentary it looks like you also mentioned about health insurer.
Are you sort of like open  basically is there  change your like platform philosophy with regarding like either like self-insured or fully insured.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Really  Kai there's really no change at all here.
Again step back this has really always been about the category of health for us.
And in that category we administer benefits for 10 million covered lives so virtually more than anybody else in the world.
It was within that context that we brought about a fully-insured multi-carrier exchange.
But we also have a full range and complement of self-insured exchanges and a full range and complement of bundled solutions for large market middle market small commercial companies.
So for us it's about a range of health solutions fully insured being one innovation in the context of that.
And that's really what's been the focal point from the beginning.
Okay.
Great.
And last question is could you talk a bit more about your investments in the so-called cloud-based solutions in Outsourcing business and what's the potential growth or maturity there? Yeah.
And you saw that obviously Kai during the quarter we saw great growth in our cloud-based solutions and HR Solutions.
As you know we invested in two of the largest Workday implementation firms in the world  OmniPoint in 2012 in the U.S.
and then the largest EMEA implementation firm called Cloud in Q1 this year  and that's enabling us to fast-forward that (41:21) growth.
It's really addressing the client need around getting better data on their people and driving analytics to help them manage their  one of their most important assets  their people much more efficiently and much more effectively.
And we're seeing clients increasingly choose cloud-based solutions which is driving substantial growth for us.
Are those better margin business than traditional base say software-on-premise business? Yeah.
I mean one of the efficiencies of that business model is it is much better margin for the clients and it's better margin for us too.
Okay.
Well thank you so much for all the answers.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
You may proceed sir.
Thanks.
Greg just one just clarification.
You mentioned in Reinsurance that data and analytics would help reignite growth next year.
Can you just talk a little bit about kind of what you mean underneath that and kind of what opportunities you see for you to be able to leverage your analytics in order to kind of reassert growth despite sort of market conditions? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So a couple of things going on Mike just to be aware of.
Again if you think about where we are in Aon Benfield first you understand the position of having  we have a very privileged position that our colleagues have built over time  number one in treaty substantially number one in facultative number one in capital markets and what we do there in alternative capital.
And against that obviously we've addressed some substantial headwinds in the treaty world where particularly in cat it's under pressure.
And by the way that's when the price has been under most pressure.
It's against that that before we get to any analytics that the team with what the capability we've got has been positive for 17 consecutive quarters on net new business.
So the underlying health of this business has actually been strengthening over time.
And so start with that.
So as the price declines begin to decelerate which they have  still there still substantial  that actually bodes very well for what the underlying impact is going to be long-term.
Equally or more exciting is really what we're doing in terms of sort of finding new markets and new ideas to deploy capital and this is really where some of our analytics comes in.
So for example we have done some very innovative work in the mortgage arena in which we brought insurance capital reinsurance capital into the mortgage world.
That's never have done before and created some price transparency and some value from that standpoint that just  it's really a net new area in many respects by the way.
The demand growth by the way is about $6 billion in limit a year which frankly we haven't seen anything like in the industry since the 1990s.
So for us we're doing things that actually create net new opportunity.
And then much like we did with Risk Insight Platform in the primary space we've done with something called Review which actually helps insurers and reinsurers actually operate much better in the marketplace and understand where they can apply their capital and create better returns.
So for us it's really threefold.
One is just the basic core business and what we're doing to win new clients; and then it's creating new markets the example I just gave you in mortgage; and then it's actually helping our clients to actually perform better on the Reinsurance side using data analytics like Review.
So a range of things we're doing here that we think bode well for the future.
Appreciate that.
That's very helpful answer.
Thank you for that.
And then on these exchanges  and maybe I just don't remember  but I had thought that most of the employers you guys had added the large employers you've added had been on a fully insured basis.
I wasn't aware that you had begun offering a self-insured option and so I'm just curious have you been adding employers to that platform? And if so just if we can get some idea of where you are in terms of building out the scale there? Thanks.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
For us Mike it's always been about a range of health solutions.
The confusion comes about because we believe we brought forward the first ever fully insured multi-carrier exchange for big companies.
And so we are the only ones adding to that because we really  no one had a solution for a period of time.
In fact many actually were pushing against the whole exchange idea and then when we start to do that everyone loves the exchange idea.
So there's a bit of a semantics back and forth.
For us it's been about a range of solutions both fully insured which we're adding clients to.
Depending on funding mechanism some like the credit creates a choice and to create a different funding mechanism around self-insured we're happy to do that too.
And then others will say no let's stay with the traditional bundled solution.
And then I'd remind you again that's 10 million covered lives for us.
So most of anybody.
So that's what we've been doing forever.
So for us it's about a range of solutions one piece of which has been an important new innovation called fully insured multi-carrier.
Got it.
But so the most recent update you gave us on the 700 000 or so lives on active exchanges so that's split up between fully insured and self-insured? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> No in this case that was largely that we wanted to try to highlight the fully insured piece across the board and that was again 1.2 million lives across the exchanges.
On the active side approaching 1 million lives 33 clients et cetera.
That was really fully insured multi-carrier so we could highlight that.
In the fullness of time we're going to talk about a range of solutions beyond just fully insured.
But again that was the innovation in the marketplace that no one else had seen which is why we wanted to highlight it and - Got it.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong>  put a spotlight on it so you can see what it looked like.
Makes sense.
And then just last one if I could for Christa.
The cash flow element I mean looks like so  looks like if you guys hit your margin targets that you've outlined in the slide  it seems pretty clear that you can get to that sort of cash flow projection that you've talked about in 2017.
Is that what we should be thinking about? And if not could you give us some idea in terms of magnitude order of magnitude what's going to drive us getting from cash flow generation at this point to the sort of numbers the $2.3 billion that you guys are talking about? And thank you for all the answers.
Appreciate it.
So Michael I think as we think about getting to the $2.3 billion in free cash flow by 2017 we have four big drivers of getting there.
The first is the revenue growth and margin expansion.
The second is the decreased use of cash on pension and restructuring.
The third is decreased use of cash on taxes and the last is improved working capital.
And so I think it's  there are sort of four big drivers that we've outlined in the presentation that really get us to that $2.3 billion level.
And I guess what I would say on margins is that we're going to continue to progress in margin expansion in both segments as you've seen historically.
And so we'll continue to make progress.
And do you expect pensions and taxes to continue to contribute or should we expect that  I mean it looks like a lot of that may be behind us or maybe a little bit still left but  so is it margin and then working capital that's going to get us from where we are to there or is there  is it fair to think about it that way? Or is there another  ? I would say that pension and restructuring we still have further upside and you can see that in the slides in the presentation.
It was about $230 million I think of cash upside between year-end 2014 and year-end 2017 on just pension and restructuring  pension restructuring and CapEx actually.
And so there's definitely an upside there.
I think as we finish 2015 our cash tax sort of effective rate will have matched our effective tax rate.
And so you should really say that we've level set on cash taxes at that point so that's really sort of where we are on cash taxes.
And then from there on the primary drivers of free cash flow growth will be revenue growth and margin expansion and working capital improvements.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I just want a follow-up question on sort of the M&amp;A take that you have.
In the reinsurance market in particular do you think that there'll be a difference in demand given what's happening from the consolidations CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Well the ebb and flow of it Paul in the short term you can understand sort of how people have different views on demand but those will be phased in over time.
Fundamental though is asking the question what's the return on invested capital of these institutions and can we bring solutions to them to help improve that? And for us that's always been the thesis and that's why we love the space so much.
Our view is there's many many companies here and they have tremendous opportunity to improve return on invested capital.
And whether we're bringing them solutions that is basically treaty placement facultative placement alternative capital or frankly more and more back to the question from earlier data and analytics that help them understand their business so they can make better decisions to improve operating performance strengthen their balance sheet or reduce their volatility all these things for us make this highly attractive and an area of high demand.
And all the M&amp;A does is create change as we've described before which will have as I before puts and takes but net-net we believe bodes very well for someone with real capability and who's made substantial investment over time to try to come up with solutions a la on Aon Benfield.
Fair enough.
And then do you think there'll be any change as well in the relationship between carriers and brokers at the high end that you're at? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Say a little more about that.
What are you thinking about? Well I'm just curious if  historically the brokers have had frankly the lion's share of the control over the negotiations between carriers and  over things like relationships commissions whatnot.
But we're seeing some very large consolidation at the high end and I'm just curious as you'll think  if you see the carriers in the future trying to demand more (51:23).
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Well we don't see much change.
I mean carriers by the way have always been demanding and we'd expect them to be and we want them to be on behalf of  they're actually trying to protect and support their shareholders.
Our mission and our maniacal focus is on our clients.
And so we're always looking for better solutions on behalf of our clients.
That's not going to change in any way shape or form and we're going to continue to try to strengthen our capabilities to deliver that.
And as I said before we actually like the idea of some of these larger institutions with greater capability.
But I love the idea of sitting across the table from a Fortune 10 Company and talking about bringing greater than $1 billion limits on behalf of cyber.
What a great opportunity that would be or greater limits than that.
So for us we see tremendous opportunity here and think it's going to continue to evolve in this direction.
And consolidation will have as I said before some puts and takes but net-net we think very positive.
Thank you and congratulations in the quarter.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question came from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
A question on the International side.
Overall International growth was I guess okay but not terribly good.
You highlighted a couple of areas where you were growing but there must be some areas that are holding back that growth.
What are those areas that are a bit more challenged now Greg? CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So Jay from our standpoint as we said before really if you think about what we've produced and outcomes on the Risk Solutions side overall have been really in face of some headwinds as we talked about in Aon Benfield and in International.
And we've got some great great spots I've described before really across Asia  I highlighted them on my comments.
I won't repeat them now  but really a number of different places.
But if you think about Europe Europe really is  you've got a lot of challenges in specific countries across Europe.
And the good news is we've got incredibly strong privileged positions that go back decades  more than literally hundreds of years quite literally  and we believe we're very well positioned as that the economics the economy changes over time.
But in the near term they represent some challenges and that's really been the headwinds.
Got it.
Makes sense.
Thanks Greg.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Greg Case for closing remarks.
CEO &amp; Executive Director</strong> I just want to say thanks to everyone for joining the call and look forward to our discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Aon Plc Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all parties are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
If anyone has an objection you may disconnect your line at this time.
I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that it is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our third quarter 2015 results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Plc.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me here today is our CFO Christa Davies.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today.
Consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover two areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders and second is overall organic growth performance including continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to slide 3.
In the third quarter organic revenue growth was 2% overall with growth across both segments highlighted by 5% growth in the HR Outsourcing business and 4% growth in the Americas Retail Brokerage business.
Operating margin increased 30 basis points reflecting solid operating performance in both segments.
EPS decreased 4% to $1.24 as unfavorable foreign currency translation and a gain on the sale of a business in the prior year more than offset organic growth operational improvement and effective capital management.
And finally free cash flow for the nine months is up 21% to $850 million a strong performance driven by operational improvement and working capital management.
Turning to slide 4 on the second topic of growth and investment.
I'm going to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 1% overall in our seasonally weakest quarter similar to the prior year reflecting growth across Retail Brokerage partially offset by decline in Reinsurance.
For the nine months organic revenue growth is 2% in line with our expectation of low to mid-single-digit growth going into our seasonally strongest quarter.
As we've discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives and making strategic investments that are strengthening the underlying performance and position our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with: management of our renewal book through Aon Client Promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average across Retail Brokerage new business generation of $240 million across our Retail business with record new business in U.S.
Retail 18 consecutive quarters of positive net new business in core treaty reinsurance increased operating leverage from our investments in innovative technology and data and analytics including in the Global Risk Insight Platform which now captures over $2.9 million trades and $139 billion of bound premium with more than 40 carriers utilizing the platform today.
ReView our reinsurer dashboard combined with strategic consulting helped reinsurers be more effective markets for ceding company clients.
And our Aon Broking initiative to better match client need with insurer appetite for risk and to identify structured portfolio solutions.
And finally we're expanding our content and global footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 4% compared to 2% in the prior year quarter.
Exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact from pricing was modestly negative resulting in continued stable market impact overall.
We saw growth across all regions.
U.S.
Retail Latin America and Canada including growth across all businesses property casualty health and benefits and affinity.
In U.S.
Retail and Canada growth was driven by strong new business generation while strong management of the renewal book drove growth in Latin America.
In International organic revenue growth was 1%.
Exposures continue to be stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile market conditions in many countries across Europe and continued pressure in the Pacific region.
We saw strong growth in New Zealand driven by double-digit new business generation.
Results also reflect solid growth across Asia primarily in emerging markets China and Thailand driven by strong management of the renewal book portfolio.
In Continental Europe we continue to see modest growth and with strong leadership across the region we are well-positioned to benefit from potential improvements in the macroeconomic environment.
In Reinsurance organic revenue declined 4% similar to the prior year quarter and for the nine months was minus 2% roughly in-line with our expectation of a modest decline for the year.
Results in the quarter primarily reflect significant unfavorable market globally a modest decline in facultative placements and modest unfavorable impact from timing.
In our treaty portfolio we saw a record level of new business generation in the quarter driven by an increase in ceding demand and growth in new products primarily such as U.S.
Mortgage and ReView.
And while excess capital continues to place pressure on the market the rate of price decline continues to moderate.
Against that price pressure clients are buying more and capital is being deployed to new markets.
New opportunities for growth combined with industry-leading data and analytics is positioning the business for a return to growth on a quarterly basis in the next 12 months.
Overall across Risk Solutions we continue to deliver new business generation and strong retention driven by a unified approach to serving clients across the portfolio and industry-leading data and analytics.
We expect improved performance in the fourth quarter placing us firmly on track for solid organic revenue growth for the full year 2015 despite continued pricing pressure in Reinsurance and fragile economic conditions in Continental Europe.
Turning to HR Solutions.
Organic revenue growth was 5% with solid growth across both major businesses and in high demand areas where we have invested in innovative solutions in client-serving capability.
These reflect investments from Aon in client leadership and our in-depth understand and influence on overall market trends including as clients manage risk against pension schemes that are frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes.
Solutions to derisk pension plans and support for delegated investment solutions are a strong area of growth where assets under management have grown from $10 billion to roughly $70 billion in five years.
Continued investment to strengthen our industry-leading portfolio of health solutions covering the full range of benefit strategies client size and funding choices.
Across Aon's suite of private health exchanges we expect to enroll roughly 1.4 million lives across 150 clients compared to roughly 1.2 million lives across 100 clients in the prior year broken down into active exchange with 1 million enrolled lives across 55 clients and retiree exchange with 400 000 enrolled lives across 75 clients.
The growth reflects continued progress to achieve scale and drive new revenue as roughly two-thirds of all clients who have joined the exchange are new to Aon.
Our growth reflects both self and fully-insured solutions including the industry's leading large corporate fully-insured multi-carrier model.
Our range of solutions provide clients with a unique ability to seamlessly transition between funding choices depending on their level of risk tolerance.
In addition representation now spans 22 distinct industries.
We look forward to providing further details after we complete the enrollment in the fourth quarter with potential further updates on client wins as we're already in very active discussions for 2016 off-cycle and 2017 enrollment.
We would also highlight our investment in Software-as-a-Service model and our HR BPO business where growth in new clients and conversion of existing clients is driving strong demand as well as the expansion of our capabilities to include financial limitations.
And finally we're investing in our talent rewards business as we're seeing strong demand for data and analytics that support increasing organizational change.
Turning to our individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting Services organic revenue growth was 3%.
The prior year quarter included a significant favorable benefit from timing due to a change in revenue recognition policy in our compensation consulting business.
Results in the quarter reflect continued growth in retirement consulting primarily driven by demand for delegated investment consulting services.
We also saw continued growth in consultation consulting driven by demand for survey work as companies require benchmarking and assistance with plan design to address retention and ways to compete for talent more effectively.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 5% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter.
Results reflect solid growth in benefits administration driven by an increase in project-related work and growth in our absence management business.
We also saw continued growth in HR BPO driven by new client wins and cloud-based solutions and growth in our healthcare exchange business from off-cycle enrollments on the retiree exchange.
Overall for HR Solutions we are well positioned to deliver continued organic revenue growth across both segments for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 driven by high demand areas where we've made investments as well as continued leadership across our core businesses.
In summary despite short-term headwinds we continue to drive growth across both segments improve our operational performance and deliver significant free cash flow growth.
Looking forward we expect a strong finish to the year and continued long-term growth driven by our industry-leading platform of client-serving capabilities and investments in data and analytics.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thank you so much Greg.
And good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our third quarter is our seasonally weakest quarter and we continued to face both macroeconomic and specific industry headwinds.
However against these headwinds the strength of our industry-leading franchise continues to perform.
Our results in the quarter reflect organic growth and operating margin improvement across both Risk and HR Solutions substantial free cash flow growth and effective capital management highlighted by the repurchase of $600 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
Now let me turn to financial results for the quarter on page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items decreased 4% to $1.24 per share for the third quarter compared to $1.29 in the prior year quarter.
The prior year quarter included a $25 million pre-tax or $0.07 per share after-tax gain related to the sale of a business.
Certain items that were adjusted for in the core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedules on page 12 of the press release include non-cash intangible asset amortization.
Further included in the results was a $0.09 per share unfavorable impact related to foreign currency translation due to the U.S.
dollar strengthening against most major currencies.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation our core earnings per share in the third quarter would have been $1.33 up 3% from the prior year quarter.
Going forward while currency movement has been challenging to predict if currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect a similar impact in Q4 as we incurred in Q3 due to continued U.S.
dollar strengthening.
As we look forward to 2016 we would anticipate substantially less of a headwind as year-over-year comparisons become easier with an unfavorable impact of roughly $0.05 to $0.10 per share for the full year 2016 compared to approximately $0.41 of impact for the full year 2015.
I would note this assumes FX rates remain stable at today's rates.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 1%.
Operating margin increased 50 basis points to 20.8% and operating income decreased 6% compared to the prior year quarter.
Operating income included a $25 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding this impact operating income increased 1% versus the prior year quarter.
Operating margin improvement of 50 basis points reflects the 40 basis points favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding the favorable impact from foreign currency underlying operating margin improved 10 basis points in the quarter driven by continued operational improvement in our seasonally weakest quarter.
Overall in Q3 we delivered underlying operational performance in Risk Solutions despite continued headwinds from an unfavorable market impact in Reinsurance fragile market conditions in Europe and historically low interest rates.
If short-term interest rates were to rise we believe we have significant leverage for an improving interest rate environment as every 100 basis point rise in global interest rates should result in approximately $45 million of investment income.
For the first nine months excluding the impact of foreign currency translation operating income increased 4% and operating improved 50 basis points.
As we approach our seasonally strongest quarter in Risk Solutions performance places us firmly on track for further margin expansion in 2015 towards our long-term target of 26% driven by growth return on investments and expense discipline as we optimize our global cost structure in areas such as IT real estate and global procurement.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 5% operating margin increased 90 basis points and operating income increased 6%.
Results reflect solid organic revenue growth expense discipline and improved profitability in the areas where we've been investing for long-term growth including: delegated investment consulting cloud-based solutions in HR BPO and healthcare exchanges where we believe we have achieved enough scale to deliver modest profitability in 2015.
For the first nine months excluding the impact of foreign currency translation operating income increased 6% and operating margin improved 30 basis points.
As we approach our seasonally strongest quarter in HR Solutions performances places us firmly on track for further margin expansion in 2015 towards our long-term target of 22% driven by growth return on investments and expense discipline.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on slide 9.
Unallocated expenses were $45 million in line with quarterly guidance.
Interest income was $3 million similar to the prior year quarter.
Interest expense increased $7 million to $72 million due to an overlap of expiring debt in the quarter.
Other income of $8 million primarily includes net gains from certain long-term investments while the prior year quarter benefited from the sale of certain businesses and net gains in certain long-term investments.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $45 million per quarter of unallocated expense and $2 million per quarter of interest income.
Interest expense in the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately $68 million as $600 million of overlapping notes were paid in September.
Turning to taxes.
The adjusted effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations excluding the applicable tax impact associated with expenses related to legacy litigation in Q2 decreased to 16% compared to the prior year quarter at 19.1% due to the favorable impact of certain discrete tax adjustments.
Our underlying operating tax rate remains at 19%.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased to 283.8 million in the third quarter compared to 296.1 million in the prior year quarter.
The company repurchased 6.3 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $600 million in the third quarter.
The company has $4.5 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on September 30 were 273.9 million and there are approximately 7 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q4 2015 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 281 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our solid balance sheet and strong cash flow on slide 10.
At September 30 cash and short-term investments were $783 million.
Total debt outstanding increased to approximately $6.1 billion and total debt to EBITDA on a GAAP basis increased to 2.6 times.
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months increased 22% or $192 million to $1.1 billion driven by working capital improvements a decline in pension contributions restructuring and cash paid for taxes partially offset by a significant increase in cash paid to settle legacy litigation flowing through net income in the second quarter.
The increase in cash paid of $137 million to settle legacy litigation in the previous quarter will provide a tailwind to free cash flow growth in 2016.
Free cash flow as defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 21% or $146 million to $850 million reflecting strong growth in cash flow from operations partially offset by a $46 million increase in CapEx.
The anticipated increase in CapEx in 2015 is associated with investment in certain real estate projects as we continue to optimize our real estate portfolio globally.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significant financial flexibility and the opportunity to further increase cash flow generation.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
There are four primary areas that are expected to contribute to our goal of delivering $2.3 billion or more for the full year 2017.
Free cash flow of $2.3 billion is not our end goal as further long term sustainable free cash flow will be driven by continued operating income growth and additional working capital initiatives beyond 2017.
We continue to believe the plans we put in place have positioned the firm to benefit from abnormal growth in free cash flow and free cash flow per share in the near term providing significant opportunity for shareholder value creation.
From the graph in the presentation based on current assumptions we expect annual free cash flow to increase by approximately $230 million from the year-end 2014 to year-end 2017 based only on a reduction in cash use of pensions restructuring and CapEx.
Combined with operational improvement in the business lower cash tax payments and working capital improvements in areas such as accounts receivable and accounts payable we have line of sight to delivering on our expectations for substantial free cash flow generation.
Regarding our pension plans we've taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants and frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to derisk certain plan assets.
We currently expect contributions to decline by roughly $96 million to $220 million in 2015 and continue to decline thereafter.
These expectations are based on 12/31/2014 actuarial assumption.
A rise in global long term interest rates could potentially decrease contributions further.
Regarding our restructuring program cash payments were $82 million in 2014.
As all charges related to the restructuring program have now been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $51 million to approximately $31 million in 2015 and continue to decline significantly each year thereafter.
In summary we delivered organic growth and margin expansion across both segments as we continue to manage expense and create greater operating leverage from our investments in data and analytics.
Strong operating performance in the fourth quarter combined with declining uses of cash and working capital improvements are expected to deliver double-digit free cash flow growth for 2015 placing us firmly on track towards our goal of generating more than $2.3 billion of free cash flow for the full year 2017.
With a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility we've positioned the firm for significant shareholder value creation in 2015 and beyond.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Our first question will be coming from Dave Styblo with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Dave you might be on mute.
Go to the next one operator.
Dave Styblo of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Can you guys hear me at this point? Yeah.
We can.
Yes.
We can.
Okay.
Great.
So first of all I was just saying thanks for taking the questions but you missed that part.
But wanted to talk a little bit about the Americas business the Retail side there held up well at plus 4% and I guess I was surprised it did so well considering it includes Latin America where you've got economies like Brazil which are now experiencing a GDP decline.
So can you help me understand is the outperformance or the strong performance there in Latin America continuing or are we doing just that much better in the other parts of Canada and the U.S.
to offset some of the pressure that might be going on in Latin America? Actually Dave we have solid growth across the board and it comes in different categories in different places but if you think about how we think about growth it's new business and then retention something we call rollover overall.
And we've been able to generate substantial new business growth which is new clients coming into the firm as well as doing more with existing clients which is retaining and then rollover which is actually doing more with them.
And then in businesses like our affinity business which has been exceptionally strong we're also seeing substantial growth.
And we really have on the U.S.
side record new business generation.
So a lot of the investments we've made over time continue to reap benefits and you're seeing the results.
Would emphasize again though look at it on an annual basis.
Quarter-to-quarter always moves around to different places but it's a very very positive piece overall.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And on HR Solutions the margins up 90 basis points there year-over-year in light of what I think  I think you guys had a tough comp last year where you had some favorable timing that lifted revenue and margins.
Was there any sort of timing in this quarter? Obviously you guys talked about two of the three factors that did help this quarter and if you could elaborate to what extent are those sustainable versus sort of project-oriented and maybe one-time in nature? Yeah.
We feel really good about the performance of HR Solutions not just in Q3 but really in the nine months year to date.
We've had operating income growth of 6% excluding FX in the nine months year to date and margin expansion of 30 basis points and we would say they are well on track to solid revenue growth margin expansion and operating income growth for the full year.
And that's really coming from the return on the investments we've made.
We're getting continued revenue growth and margin expansion from the significant investments we made in delegated investment consulting and health care exchanges and in HR BPO SaaS.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly on the exchanges it sounds like the $1.4 million is that a estimate for January or sort of year-end 2016? And I guess that implies something along the lines of 15% or 20% membership growth which is maybe a little bit lower than peers.
Curious to hear sort of what you're seeing in the market is there some clients who maybe have deferred or what is sort of your thoughts on the adoption and pace of adoption relative to your expectations? Yeah.
I'd say step back overall.
First of all the number we report 1.4 million is enrolled lives.
So these are actually folks who are paying us and money is changing hands for solutions we provide.
And there's a lot going on around definitions and how different folks describe the business overall.
We are very explicit about how we describe it around enrolled lives.
I would say Dave overall we agree the adoption across the board when you think about it especially at the larger end of the market has not been as fast as we would have expected.
This is especially true given the results we've seen with our existing exchange clients.
I mean we have been able to sustainably lower cost reduced volatility and very importantly the employee choice has gone up and there's very very high satisfaction.
Our view is we're very confident that over time you're going to see the market develop.
It's going to accelerate.
It's going to be an uneven pace no doubt.
But our pipeline is strong.
We're in discussions with a number of very large innovative companies around solutions and ideas and so we feel very very good about the development.
I would highlight we've gone from zero to 1.4 million lives as  and Christa described we're marginally profitable in 2015.
So we've made progress and we're seeing continued development on that platform.
But last point I'd make on this it is important to put this in context over overall health effort.
I mean we love the health space.
We believe in it we believe we're going to make a difference globally on behalf of our clients.
And from classic health health and benefits global benefits I'd just remind you we place more than $10 million in health benefits in the U.S.
alone every year and the exchanges have been very very strong zero to 1.4 million.
By the way as I said in my opening comments two-thirds of the clients who've come in in the exchanges are new to Aon and 150 clients overall.
And so we see this as very very positive continued development.
And overall in the context of the health opportunities we see it as quite strong.
Okay.
That's helpful.
So just the paying numbers sort of what you'd get in January is what that 1.4 million is then right? Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks.
Lot that's going on mid cycle.
Lot that's going on in terms of overall (28:12) but that's literally clinically as of today.
Got it.
Thanks.
Next we have Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So just one follow-up on the active exchange.
So for those large clients what are the one or two factors that's holding them back from pulling the trigger right now? I think Adam actually it's a range of different pieces.
And it really  they don't look at it as this year or next year.
They're really looking at what's the best interest over time of their employee base and how that's developing.
They're also looking at sort of the trend line in the marketplace and what's happening with overall health costs and level of urgency.
And so for them it really is a range of different items.
We would come back to  for the clients who we brought into this environment the impact has been substantial and now sustained over a multi-year period.
And more and more companies are seeing that and actually taking some comfort in some of the sustainability of the overall model.
But as I said before the pipeline is strong and this is going to develop.
If you think back the lessons around DB to DC and the overall solutions these things take a period of time.
But what we keep coming back to is the fundamental value proposition is quite strong and now sustained and we think that's going to carry the day over time.
But still keep coming back to though it's about an overall health platform and a level of demand across health which we think is going to continue to go up and the exchanges serve one part of that overall market.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on cash flow the operating cash flow from operations was very strong this quarter.
It jumped from $365 million to almost $1.1 billion.
I guess two questions.
One was there anything unusual in that? And also historically third quarter is strong but fourth quarter is stronger from an operating cash flow should that continue to hold? So Adam I think that's a great question.
We are exceptionally pleased with the cash flow in the nine months year-to-date.
There are no unusual items in there.
And yes Q4 is our seasonally strongest cash flow quarter.
And so we are well on track to deliver double digit free cash flow growth in 2015.
The thing I would note that was unusual in calendar year 2015 was the $137 million impact to cash in Q2 that was an outflow of cash on litigation settlements.
True.
Okay.
And then also on cash flow.
I think you said you expect $230 million annually of free cash flow does that exclude or not include just normal improvement from earnings? Yeah.
So what I referred to there was from year-end 2014 to year-end 2017 you can see in the slides that we posted on our website that there was an increase in cash flow of $230 million just from decreased cash spent on pension restructuring and capital expenditure.
Right.
Okay There are really four big drivers of cash flow to get to our $2.3 billion in cash by 2017.
The first is obviously growth in revenue and expansion in margin which will lead to operating income growth.
The second is working capital improvements and we think they are sustainable for many years to come.
The decreased uses of cash I just talked about.
And the reduction in tax rate leading through to less cash spent on taxes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then finally from what we hear the Workday service implementation business is doing very well.
Would you say that's growing much faster than your overall HR Consulting business? And as you look to 2016-2017 are you doing more types of products not just Workday but adding other software suites to that business? Yeah.
So we've obviously invested significantly in this area of business through the acquisition of OmniPoint and the acquisition of Kloud.
We are very pleased with the breadth of solutions we can offer clients in the HR BPO space and obviously Software-as-a-Service offers a much more feature rich and effective set of services for clients at a much lower cost.
And so it's a very high area of growth for us and it's continuing to grow double-digits.
And so we feel really good about this solution and being able to continue to grow this solution set for clients.
And we put in context with the other investments we're making in terms of overall size.
On the investment consulting side the delegated side investments on talent obviously exchanges we've talked about.
So there's a portfolio of investments we're making and fully funding by the way as part of the P&amp;L that we can drive performance and invest for the future.
And would you say the margin on that business equal or greater to your average HR Consulting margins? What we've said historically on our  as we think about our margin growth from where we are in HR Solutions let's call it 17% today to our 22% long-term target that there are really three big drivers of margin expansion.
The first is the return on the investments that we've made.
We've invested a lot in delegated and exchanges et cetera.
The second is the growth in margins in our HR BPO business.
We've talked historically about our HR BPO business being about a $500 million business that had very low single-digit margins.
And really one of the things that is driving the expansion in margin is our investments in BPO staff and these innovative solutions for clients.
And the third driver of margin expansion in HR Solutions is our expense discipline and continuing to manage expenses very carefully around IT real estate and procurement.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Next we have Sarah DeWitt of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Sarah.
In insurance brokerage the organic growth in the quarter of 1% was at the lower end of your target of low to mid-single-digit organic growth.
Is there anything unusual that depressed that and should we expect to see a rebound in the fourth quarter and 2016? Yeah Sarah.
I would characterize really and Christa started on this path.
If you really look at for the first nine months of the year first nine months of the year is as strong or stronger now than it was against 2014.
So the short answer is no.
In fact look at it over the course of the year nothing has changed.
We would characterize the quarter as a quarter of continued progress against long-term objectives.
And look at Risk organic revenue for the nine months was 2% operating income increased 2% margin up 50 basis points.
That's roughly where it was last year.
We're now going into our strongest quarter.
We believe the Reinsurance business is improving.
Continental Europe looks a bit more positive or at least stable.
A lot of the investments we've made are very very good.
So from our standpoint we feel like this quarter in Risk and by the way in HR Solutions as well is just another good quarter of continued progress.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then in HR Solutions last year you did high single digit adjusted operating income growth and given that the private exchange enrollment for 2016 sounds  it's going to be a little bit lighter than we would have expected.
Is that  can you still achieve that level of growth for the full year? Sarah we are exactly on track with the goals we outlined for HR Solutions for the full year.
We're going to grow organically we're going to expand margins and we're going to grow operating income in 2015.
Okay.
But no clarity on to what extent you can grow operating income because it tends to be pretty lumpy right quarter to quarter? Yeah we have said Sarah that we are going to be modestly profitable in healthcare exchanges for the full year 2015.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the answers.
Next we have Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open Good morning and thanks for the call.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the M&amp;A outlook in general and perhaps a little bit in specific in that it looks like you're actually divesting a little bit more than you're acquiring.
Is that typical of the trend? You're obviously doing a lot of activity in the area.
Could you just give us some general sense about what you think the direction of M&amp;A is going for for Aon? What the outlook in general is for the sector? Yeah.
We would Paul not observe that trend In fact if you think back and just reflect on Aon over the last 10 years we've done roughly $8 billion in acquisitions over that period of time.
And we said before we're probably on track for kind of $200 million to $500 million a year really adding content and capability that we can expand across our portfolio.
We're looking to do that all the time.
To the extent we divest it really is discipline around return on invested capital.
We're deploying capital around the world whether it's acquisitions or buyback or whatever organic investment around the discipline that Christa has set up really gauging each investment around improving return on invested capital.
So to the extent we end up divesting something it's because we've made a determination that it's better off in somebody else's hands on behalf of our clients and we'll do that from time to time.
But if you just think about just even in 2014 we did $500 million in acquisitions in a Flood business which we really love across the U.S.
and a benefits business in the UK.
So we are excited about adding capability when it makes sense to add capability.
So we should assume that it's a positive number in terms of the revenue impact for prospectively from acquisitions.
I would say generally if you look over the last 10 years absolutely it will be a positive number.
Again it will be lumpy depending on what happens from quarter-to-quarter but overall absolutely positive.
And I apologize one more exchange question.
A lot of your peers have talked about a move towards more middle market in exchange.
Some have even talked about doing deals to move them in that direction.
What's your thought on that and is Aon also doing a similar thing? Again we have to start Paul with we love the health business.
We love the opportunity to serve clients who face increasing pressures that are very real for them on promises they've made to employees about trying to help them serve their family's health needs and the increasing cost of that.
Against that backdrop we provide an absolute large range of solutions.
But remember we actually do regular health benefits for greater than 10 million in the U.S.
alone so we actually do more of this than anybody else and love that set of solutions.
Exchanges end up being a set of solutions for a subset of that group like that as well and we've got exchanges large medium small.
We've got exchanges that are fully insured and self-insured.
So we actually go through a range of different options depending on the client situation.
But in the end we're addressing the health needs of clients which we believe are going to continue to increase over time.
And again we just love the platform and have been very successful in growing pieces called the exchanges but also in developing other areas as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Next we have Brian Meredith of UBS.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
A couple of questions here.
Hey Greg back on the healthcare solutions has the discussion about the potential repeal of the Cadillac tax had any impact on just the large corporate markets and companies thinking about changing not only to exchanges but other types of plans? Not really Brian.
I think in the end it's a great question but really our clients are really looking at the pressure around cost overall.
That could be an accelerant but frankly they're feeling the pinch anyway.
They're also feeling the pinch around volatility so it really is how do you help your employees meet their demands what they need for their family and do it in a way that's reasonably cost effective more pressure there and do it in a way that it's not super-volatile quarter-to-quarter for the company is very very difficult and wow.
If we'd actually lower the cost curve over time which we've been able to do in the exchange examples 150 200 basis points a year that's hugely positive.
So it really is that's the dialogue.
The Cadillac tax ends up being out there but it really hasn't been a driver.
Did you think it'd be a catalyst though in the next call it next year or the year after as clients potentially face this Cadillac tax if it stays in place? I would say either way it's going evolve because the answer is a good one and it has value and clients see that.
Anything by the way that increases cost the Cadillac tax or anything else actually is a catalyst for change.
So to the extent that's out there and it happens it's a catalyst for change.
To the extent it doesn't I wouldn't overplay it either.
As client see opportunities to reduce costs flatten the curve and reduce volatility they're going to embrace it.
And I would say clients that really innovate on the health side drive it.
I mean give an example we are working with a very well-known new car company who's as excited about innovation and health for their employees as they are about frankly changing the way the world buys cars.
And against that we've helped them create a solution that provides transparency choice accountability a whole series of things for their employees.
And for them it's as much about innovation and the idea of better health and better wellness as it is about cost.
And oh yeah by the way you can save and reduce volatility.
So that's really the dynamic that's going on.
Great.
Thanks.
And then a quick question on the BPO business I know margins are pretty low there as you're kind of investing in that business.
What are the margins look like right now and then kind of what is the kind of outlook for those margins to kind of improve here? And how much of an impact did that have on the HR Solutions margins overall? Yeah.
I mean margins are improving Brian but what I would say is we're still at low single-digit margins.
As you know historically several years ago the margins were negative.
So they have improved but we do believe that we'll move from low single-digit margins to sort of mid-teens margins over time.
How quickly can that happen? I mean is it just simply just getting rid of some of these investments because they've been  for a long long time they have been low.
Yeah.
I mean we're continuing to improve margins every year Brian and clients today are on an average of three-year to seven-year contracts.
And so as clients increasingly choose Software-as-a-Service options our margins improve.
Got you.
I just thought we might be getting closer to the end of that three years to seven years since when you bought Hewitt.
Yeah.
It's progressing every year Brian.
Okay.
Thanks.
Next we have Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is open Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Two quick questions if I can.
One it looks like the average number of employees on the active exchange per company went down significantly.
Is that because you're adding smaller companies? Or did any companies from last year did not renew? No.
Really this is  again remember we have been privileged.
We've actually brought onboard on the exchange front the largest ever on the exchange.
And so almost by definition as we continue to add clients the average is going to go down.
By the way the same is true on the retiree exchange where we've added what was the largest client in history on the retiree exchange.
So I wouldn't read too much into that.
As we add clients that average is invariably going to come down.
We're not too worried about that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If there's any  I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
We're still doing in terms of the category serving this category we think in a very unique way with a very unique set of options.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
Are there any margin implications of adding smaller clients besides the underlying trajectory for improvement? No.
For us in the end we've seen overall positive trajectory as Christa has described before.
And we see opportunities here for improvement over time.
And again as I said fundamentally this is a solution which has actually proved to be quite effective for the category of clients large and medium and small in fact.
And we're excited about adding clients as it makes sense for them and as they elect to come onboard.
The other thing I would add is because we've created a platform we're now adding more and more products to be able to offer to employees.
We've now got over 11 different products not just medical it's medical dental vision short-term disability long-term disability pet insurance and others.
And so it becomes a platform for employees to really have choice as to how they want to invest their dollar.
And this is consistent on the exchanges as Christa is describing there with the idea of a platform to serve similar to what we do across the overall health segment which is really how do we actually serve clients in an effective way across a range of needs beyond a single product.
And this just happens to be a platform to do that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Oh okay.
No that's very helpful.
I appreciate the detail.
On a year-to-date basis I guess organic revenue growth in brokerage how does that compare to overall global premium growth? So overall if you sort of look at year-to-date it kind of give or take 2% overall.
That's probably roughly in line we would sort of say with overall premium growth globally.
What you're getting to there is a great outcome that this really isn't about price.
This really isn't about  it's really about underlying demand.
Our view is underlying demand in the risk world is going to continue to grow.
That's going to be reflected in premiums which tend to increase year-to-year and we're roughly in line with that.
We're also doing things to bring new categories into play.
So the work we've done for example in the reinsurance world bringing reinsurance capital into the mortgage world actually creates net new markets for what we do overall.
That's true in cyber.
That's true in terrorism as well.
And so for us we think this is a demand opportunity irrespective of sort of what's happening to the micro price environment and we're seeing it play out over time and we're benefiting from that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That is what I was getting at.
Thanks so much.
Next we have Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
First I have two questions.
First question on the margin.
It's pretty good that you can maintain and improve your margin under Risk Solutions given the 1% organic growth.
I just wonder what are the driver behind it to be able to better manage expense? And also so looking longer term if you look at Risk Solutions the margin have been stable for about five years and the HR have been stable for four years.
So there's still pretty significant upside to your long-term aspiration goal.
I just wonder if the macro environment remain the same what other key drivers within your control that we can see meaningful margin expansion in both segments? Yeah.
I think it's a great question Kai because one of the things we have been investing in are investments in data and analytics particularly on the risk side.
And they are enabling us to drive margin expansion at lower rates of growth.
And what you're seeing is we absolutely invested disproportionately in our data and analytics business particularly up until 2012.
And what you're seeing in 2013 2014 and 2015 are the return on those investments.
And as we think about our margin growth from 22.9% which is where we finished at year-end 2014 to 26% there are three big drivers of that margin expansion.
The first is the return on the investments we've made in data and analytics which are substantial and you're seeing that drive the majority of our margin expansion in 2013 2014 and again this calendar year.
The second is the Revenue Engine which is allowing us to get record levels of retention of existing clients and record levels of new business wins and you've seen that in our business in calendar year 2015.
And the third is the continued expense discipline across our Risk Solutions business.
And we are on track for record margins in both segments in 2015.
And that would be Kai at the end of the day we want to be really clear.
Christa has described the track for us to improve margins irrespective of the external environment.
So we didn't talk about pricing we didn't talk about inflation we didn't talk about interest rates.
We anticipate and expect none of those.
If any of those happen those are substantial accelerants of our margin expansion but we've been able to expand margin without any of that help with increased operating leverage in the business.
So that's why we are comfortable and this quarter has done nothing except for reinforce that comfort that we're going to improve margin in 2015 2016 2017 irrespective of the external environment.
So to be clear the pace of the improvements that is similar to what we have seen in last few years if the environment keeps the same.
We're going to continue to make progress in margin every year.
Okay.
That's great.
And then my second question is on your capacity for buybacks.
So that (49:47) number is significant this quarter again.
And if you're looking forward if you achieve your $2.3 billion of free cash for 2017 which implies about $300 million year increasing in free cash flow through 2017 from 2014.
And then the two variable then to drive your increased buybacks would be the merger and acquisitions as well as the debt.
You spoke about the acquisition side but on the debt side are there increasing capacity for you to issue on debt.
For example if your EBITDA grew about $100 million a year would you be able to increase debt by $260 million a year to maintain the 2.6 times leverage ratio or you want to sort of like keep the debt lower than the leverage ratio going forward? Kai It's a great question and I think gets to the heart of free cash flow growth for Aon and how we allocate capital and we expect double-digit free cash flow growth for the full year 2015.
We've obviously demonstrated 21% growth in free cash flow in the nine months year-to-date.
And we're heading into our seasonally strongest cash flow growth quarter.
So we feel really good about being able to grow free cash flow double-digits this calendar year.
And then as we think about the capacity for buyback you're absolutely right.
It's the growth in free cash flow and it's the leverage.
And as we think about leverage we are absolutely committed to our current investment grade ratings and therefore as we grow EBITDA and as our pension unfunded liability comes down we absolutely have the ability to increase leverage.
So that's the way we think about it.
And then you could say are we allocating this capital towards buyback are we allocating it towards M&amp;A and it's really about how we think about return on capital which is on a cash-on-cash return.
And our highest return on capital use of cash today is buyback.
Because we do believe we're substantially undervalued because many people still look at earnings growth and for us there's a very big disconnect between earnings growth and free cash flow growth.
And so you do have double-digit free cash flow growth to deliver $3.3 billion in 2017.
So you're comfortable with the 2.6 leverage ratio at these levels? Yes we are.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Next we have Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Few questions.
First on the tax rate.
Legacy litigation had a benefit this quarter from the second quarter legacy litigation.
Should we expect any kind of benefit on the tax rate in the fourth quarter or will it revert back to around that 19% level? Yeah.
So the way that works is that legacy litigation that occurred in Q2 that had a positive benefit on the tax rate will impact the full-year tax rate for 2015.
So yes it will show up again in Q4 Elyse and then it will not repeat in 2016.
And as I've said the underlying operating rate is 19% and that's the right rate to use for 2016.
Okay.
And then shifting on to the private healthcare exchanges.
The enrollment figures that you gave for 2016 I just want to make sure are those just on the fully insured exchange? So the 55 accounts on the active exchange does that compare to the 30 that you had on last year? Yeah.
This is overall sort of what we put on the exchange Elyse and it's 1.4 million for 2015 into 2016 just as you described.
Okay.
And then so what is the  are you breaking out the self-insured versus the fully insured component? Look at that as an overall.
We haven't broken it out explicitly.
Basically we increased the number of clients from 30 to 55 on the active exchange.
The majority are fully insured but we also have a number on the self-insured side as well.
Okay.
And then in terms of thinking about the economics Christa I know you mentioned that you'll see modest positive earnings this year.
When we think through that is that more of a function of the investments and the expenses on the exchanges going down as it gains greater scale or growth in revenue? What's contributing which of either revenue or expenses is contributing to you guys kind of hitting the inflection point this year and seeing positive earnings? Elyse the way to think about it is the investments we've made are really operating expense so they're going to show up every year.
And then as we get incremental participants enrolled then our revenue increases which is how we get the scale to be modestly profitable this year and continued improvements in profitability in each year thereafter.
So it's the revenue growth Elyse.
Okay.
And then lastly on the share repurchases.
We saw that pick up this quarter from where you guys have been trending year-to-date? Did you move up any kind of share repurchases that you had geared for the fourth quarter? Anything more on just the pickup in the level in the third quarter and kind of expectations for fourth quarter that you have.
Elyse what we said coming into the second half of the year was that share repurchase would be stronger in the second half of the year than the first half of the year because the second half of the year is our seasonally strongest cash flow half.
And that's exactly what you're seeing.
And so we would expect  Q4 is our strongest cash flow quarter.
And so if you think about share repurchase going forward we would expect to continue to allocate capital based on the highest return on capital.
And then I would say as you think about sort of hitting the $2.3 billion in free cash flow in 2017 you should assume that the share count is going to continue to trend down over that time period.
And so if you think about the $2.3 billion of cash divided by share count it is the highest return on capital opportunity we have.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Just to go back to the cash question again here I mean if we go back to 2012 when we sort of laid out the double cash by 2017 I mean since that point we've had sort of very clear tangible drivers of cash generation the restructuring program the reduction in pension contributions from freezing the pension plan and then the reduction in tax payments from the lower tax rate.
So that gets us maybe  depending on what happens this year in the fourth quarter maybe that gets us halfway there.
I guess I'm just trying to understand looking from here do we have line of sight into a chart similar like we have on page 11 in the presentation? What gets us the rest of the 50% of the way to that $2.3 billion? Because it's just hard to understand what that is if it isn't going to be reaching those margin targets that you have guys have laid out specifically by 2017? Thanks.
Yeah.
Look it's a great question Michael because if you look at the pension restructuring CapEx it's $230 million.
You add reduction in cash taxes of about $100 million you're about $330 million.
So you've got a gap.
And the gap is really coming from operating income growth both in revenue and margin expansion.
So that will be absolutely a big driver of the free cash flow growth.
And the second is working capital improvement.
Michael if you look at 2011 our accounts receivable divide by revenue so you get days sales outstanding.
It was about 103 days sales outstanding in 2011.
And in 2014 that reduced to 85 days.
So you've basically got an improvement of 18 days in days sales outstanding over those four-year period which on 2014 revenue is the equivalent of $575 million in cash from working capital.
And what I would say is we've got substantial improvements in working capital to come over the next five-plus years.
As we continue to improve the processes around Aon and through the operating model and improve the collection of cash from customers and the payments to suppliers.
So then I mean from this point I mean it's really less about  or it's going to be less about earnings and margins and more about balance sheet optimization in order to extract that additional $500 million $600 million of annual cash flow.
Is that fair? No actually.
It's really about revenue growth and margin expansion.
It's absolutely about operating income growth so I did start there.
So I would say there are two big drivers of cash flow growth other  there are really four big drivers of cash flow growth.
One is revenue and margin expansion driving operating income growth.
Two is working capital improvements which we believe is sustainable over multiple years.
Three is the reduction in uses of capital on pension restructuring and CapEx.
And four is reduced cash taxes.
They're the four big drivers and all four of them will contribute.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just if I could on healthcare exchanges tell me you're getting closer to scale there.
Do you have visibility or you can give some insight into what the model margins are on exchanges as you think about that relative to your benefits business? I mean obviously you've got still some investments in there and you're probably not fully at scale.
But how should we think about the trade-off between your sort of legacy benefits business and this new sort of platform as you start to scale that up? As we said before listen as we bring this up online it is going to be higher accretive to our margin currently and certainly helps us and gets us on track and accretive to our 22% target.
So we're investing on behalf of clients.
We've absorbing into the P&amp;L.
We're still able to improve margins.
And as we bring this onboard and we continue to see adoption it's going to reinforce our overall margin progress and margin improvements.
Okay.
And then last one on exchanges.
I guess ADP is a large payroll company that has talked about building an exchange platform.
Do you think  what is the risk if there is one? Are those potential partners? Are those potential competitors? It's still somewhat unclear about how they're bringing people to the table and partners to the table and potentially competing in the space.
How do you think about the potential encroachment either from new competitors or opportunity to partner with new partners like that? Thanks.
Again we'd step back and say listen we're actually operating in the health space which is why we love the space so much.
This is massive and we would say largely broken.
So this is one of the most important biggest sectors of the global economy certainly in the U.S.
economy.
And our clients are like begging for an option or set of options that can flatten the cost curve a bit reduce volatility and most important give employees better choice and better transparency and hopefully a bit of accountability maybe even change their behavior improve health overall.
So against that backdrop we've brought a range of solutions.
It is a massive vast ocean with lots of opportunities there.
And the thing we love is we start with the fact that we actually already do this for 22 million Americans across the overall benefits spectrum 10 million in health alone so we've got very very tremendous access to the companies to have a great set of discussions.
And we would observe by the way when we first start talking about exchanges most of the world said that no they don't like them we should never have them and then eventually everybody showed with exchanges.
And then we talked about the idea of actually maybe even putting the risk on an insurance balance sheet let's call it fully insured and everyone said no no those are terrible too.
And then eventually everybody's got one of those as well.
So our view is there's going to be lots of folks coming to the floor here to try to serve this market.
It's an important market.
And at the end of the day we really  we love our position.
We feel very privileged to be where we are.
But we also are very clear we need to keep innovating.
We need to keep improving.
We need to keep investing behind and on behalf of our clients because none of us have gotten our clients to a place where they really need to be going forward and that really is the aspiration.
Thank you so much.
Our last question is from Vinay Misquith of Sterne Agee CRT.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just one clarification on the working capital.
Christa if you could help me understand how that works and I believe you're asking clients to pay up slightly earlier.
So curious about what impact it's having on client relationships and also how much more of this working capital benefits can you squeeze out over the next couple of years? Yeah.
So really Vinay the way this works is it's collecting the cash that customers owe us.
And I think historically we've had a focus on revenue growth and then on margin expansion and then really sort of in the last four or five years cash flow.
So I think we haven't had the discipline around the processes and the collections that we're now putting in place.
And I think it's allowing us to translate a dollar of revenue into free cash flow much more efficiently.
And so I would say it's both on that side.
And then as we aggregate together our supplier spending we're able to get better terms in terms of how we pay suppliers.
So both of those contribute to working capital.
And I would say as we continue to bring together global Aon and improve our overall efficiency we see substantial improvements in working capital over the next five years.
In many respects Vinay philosophically to the cash piece I think it's worth spending a minute on this.
Listen we have brought what we believe is  it's not rocket science but in the world of brokerage it's an innovation.
No one has actually ever looked at the idea of how you translate operating income into cash.
And it turns out we're actually not actually squeezing we're actually just being slightly disciplined.
And slight discipline means we've got a better engine to translate operating income into cash.
And it turns out it's massive.
And that's why we've actually got a set of structural changes between now and 2013 (1:04:44).
Structural intention (1:04:46) structural in restructuring structural in tax and structural in working capital that again aren't rocket science if you're outside the brokerage world but in our world require a lot of energy a lot to change.
But when you do it creates a tremendous benefit.
And so for every dollar of operating profit we're generating our translation into free cash flow is stronger and getting stronger and that gets us to the $2.3 billion.
I would highlight as Christa described before we do not need to get to a 26% margin and a 22% margin in our targets to make $2.3 billion.
In fact if we achieve those margins we'd be well above $2.3 billion.
So from our standpoint we're focused on cash because it's important to our investors and important to us.
It's an important bellwether on how much we can invest back into the business and we're taking steps to improve that profile.
And the 21% in the first nine months has just said we're on track.
And we're going to continue to do that.
And I think importantly as Christa described we're going to be able to sustain that past 2017 and the $2.3 billion.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Just one numbers question on the tax rate.
Christa the fourth quarter should we expect a 16% tax rate once again? I mean the operating rate is going to be  the underlying rate is really going to be 19%.
And then I think it depends on discrete items and that's what you saw this quarter which made it lower.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would like to turn the call back to Greg Case for closing remarks.
Just appreciate everybody joining the call and look forward to our discussion next quarter.
Thanks very much.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may all now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for holding.
Welcome to the Aon Plc Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all parties will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
If anyone has an objection you may disconnect your line at this time.
I would also like to remind all parties that this call is being recorded and that is important to note that some of the comments in today's call may constitute certain statements that are forward-looking in nature as defined by the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated.
Information concerning risk factors that could cause such differences are described in the press release covering our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results as well as having been posted on our website.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Case President and CEO of Aon Plc.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
Joining me today is our CFO Christa Davies.
I would note that there are slides available on our website for you to follow along with our commentary today and consistent with previous quarters I'd like to cover two areas before turning the call over to Christa for further financial review.
First is our performance against key metrics we communicate to shareholders.
Second is the overall organic growth performance including continued areas of strategic investment across Aon.
On the first topic our performance versus key metrics.
Each quarter we measure our performance against the key metrics we focus on achieving over the course of the year: grow organically expand margins increase earnings per share and deliver free cash flow growth.
Turning to slide 3.
In the fourth quarter organic revenue growth was 5% with solid growth across all major businesses highlighted by 6% growth in each of our retail brokerage businesses.
Operating margin increased 110 basis points reflecting strong operating performance in both segments.
And EPS increased 20% to $2.27 reflecting strong operating performance and effective capital management.
If we turn to the full year organic revenue growth was 3% overall reflecting solid growth across both Risk and HR Solutions despite pricing pressure and overall economic uncertainty.
Operating margin increased 50 basis points reflecting strong operating performance and record margin results in those segments.
EPS increased 8% to $6.18 overcoming substantial foreign currency headwinds.
And finally free cash flow increased 10% to a record $1.7 billion.
Overall our results reflect both the strong performance in the quarter and for the full year.
In the year of substantial volatility driven by macroeconomic factors and industry headwinds we continue to invest heavily in client-serving capabilities across our industry-leading platform.
These investments combined with the leadership of our colleagues around the globe contribute to strong organic growth in both segments to close the year record operating margin in both segments record free cash flow and a return of $1.9 billion of capital to shareholders.
Turning to slide 4 on the second topic of growth and investment.
I want to spend the next few minutes discussing the quarter for both of our segments.
In Risk Solutions organic revenue growth was 5% compared to 3% in the prior year quarter driven by growth across all businesses and reflecting a level of quarterly organic growth not seen since the second quarter of 2007.
As we discussed previously we're driving a set of initiatives and making strategic investments that are strengthening underlying performance and position our Risk Solutions segment for long-term growth and improved operating leverage with the management of our renewal book through right-on-time promise and retention rates of more than 90% on average across retail brokerage.
New business generation of more than $330 million across our retail business with record new business in U.S.
Retail.
In 19 consecutive quarters of positive net new business in core treaty reinsurance.
Increased operating leverage from our investments in innovation technology and data and analytics including from the Global Risk Insight Platform which now captures over 3 million trades and $160 billion of bound premium with approximately 40 carriers utilizing the platform today.
ReView a reinsurer dashboard combined with strategic consulting help reinsurers be more effective markets for ceding company clients.
And our Aon Broking initiative to better match client need with insurer appetite for risk and to identify structured portfolio solutions.
A great example of our innovation in data and analytics recently was the launch of Aon Client Treaty the largest ever underwritten portfolio of risk in the history of Lloyd's.
An undertaking of data and analytics looking at 64 000 policy transactions 120 different classes of business and over 157 countries and territories.
We've received terrific feedback from clients bound coverage in every major geography and have generated incremental new business since the launch on January 1.
And finally we're expanding our content and global footprint through tuck-in acquisitions that increase scale in emerging markets or expand capability.
Reflecting on the individual businesses within Risk Solutions.
In the Americas organic revenue growth was 6% against the strong comparable in the prior year quarter driven by a diversified portfolio reflecting industry expertise product and service capability.
The exposures continue to be positive across the region while the impact from pricing was modestly negative resulting in stable market impact overall.
We saw growth across all regions; U.S.
Retail Canada and Latin America including growth across all businesses property/casualty health and benefits and in Affinity where 16 of 18 underlying product lines were delivering growth.
In U.S.
Retail growth was driven by solid retention rates and record new business generation on areas such as P&amp;C D&amp;O and cyber while strong management of the renewal book portfolio drove growth in Latin America.
In International organic revenue growth was 6% compared to flat in the prior year quarter.
Exposures continue to be stable and the impact from pricing was modestly negative on average driven by fragile market conditions in many countries across Europe and a continued pressure in the Pacific region.
In Continental Europe we saw solid growth driven by management of the renewal book portfolio reflecting strong leadership across the region.
This positions us well to benefit from potential improvements in a macroeconomic environment.
We saw continued strength in New Zealand while Australia showed modest growth.
Results also reflect solid growth across Asia where many markets grew double digits including Taiwan Thailand and Singapore.
In Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 2% a strong performance against the tough comparison in the prior year quarter.
Results in the quarter primarily reflect positive growth in treaty globally driven by an increase in (07:08) demand as well as growth in new products such as U.S.
Mortgage and ReView.
Across our portfolio we saw a record level of new business generation in the quarter.
While excess capital continues to place pressure in the market the rate of price decline continues to moderate.
Against that price measure clients are buying more and capital is being deployed to new markets.
New opportunities for growth combined with industry-leading data and analytics has positioned our Reinsurance business for return to modest growth in 2016.
Overall across Risk Solutions we delivered our strongest quarterly rate of organic growth for the year driven by record new business generation strong retention rates and returns on our investments in industry leading data and analytics.
Despite fragile macroeconomic conditions and soft pricing in certain areas we fully anticipate a continuation of low to mid-single digit organic growth in 2016.
Turning to HR Solutions organic revenue growth was 4% with solid growth across both major businesses and in high demand areas where we've invested in innovative solutions and client serving capability.
These investments reflect Aon Hewitt's client leadership and in-depth understanding and influence of market trends.
Including as clients manage risks against pension schemes that are frozen largely underfunded and facing regulatory changes solutions to de-risk pension plans and support for delegated investment solutions.
A strong area of growth where assets under management have grown from $10 billion to roughly $75 billion in five years.
Continued investment to strengthen our industry-leading portfolio of health solutions covering the full range of benefit strategies client size and funding choices.
Across Aon suite of private health exchanges we enrolled roughly 1.4 million lives across 150 clients in 2015 compared to roughly 1.2 million enrolled lives across 100 clients in 2014 reflecting solid double-digit growth.
Participant satisfaction was strong as 92% of individuals on the Retiree Exchange were satisfied with their advisor while 88% on the Active Exchange liked being able to choose from multiple carriers.
Our solutions for clients continue to bend the cost curve by 150 basis points to 200 basis points on average over a multi-year period but more than a quarter of returning clients seen a year-over-year decrease.
We feel good about the pipeline and our ability to drive greater scale in growth in 2016.
We're also investing in Software-as-a-Service model in our HR BPO business where growth in new clients and conversation with existing clients is driving strong demand as well as the expansion of our capabilities to include financial implementations.
And finally we're investing in our talent and rewards business as we are seeing strong demand for data and analytics to support increasing organizational change.
Turning to the individual businesses within HR Solutions.
In Consulting services organic revenue growth was 4% overcoming a tough comparable in the prior year that included project work relating to the HAFTA bill.
Results in the quarter reflect continued growth in retirement consulting primarily driven by demand for delegated investment consulting solutions.
We also saw continued growth in consultation consulting driven by record growth in participation for survey work as companies require benchmarking and assistance with planned designs to address retention and ways to compete more effectively with a set of strategies.
In Outsourcing organic revenue growth was 4% as well driven by growth across all major businesses.
We saw growth in benefits administration driven primarily by an increase in project-related work.
Results reflect growth in HR BPO driven by new client wins in cloud-based solutions.
We saw solid growth in healthcare exchanges driven by an increase in the number of enrollments across the platform.
Overall across HR Solutions client needs are growing in both size and complexity across retirement and health.
Our results reflect the solid finish to the year with growth across all major businesses including strong growth in areas we've been investing to continue delivering sustainable long-term growth.
In summary despite short-term headwinds from both macroeconomic and industry pricing standpoint our results for both the quarter and the year finished on a high note.
We delivered solid organic growth across both segments and strengthened our operational performance driven by our industry-leading platform of client-serving capabilities and investments in data and analytics.
With that said I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Christa for further financial review.
Christa? Thanks so much Greg and good morning everyone.
As Greg noted our industry-leading franchise closed the year with a strong performance despite both macroeconomic and industry-specific headwinds.
Our results in the quarter reflect solid organic growth and record operating margin performance in Risk and HR Solutions.
Record free cash flow generation and effective capital management highlighted by the repurchase of approximately $400 million of ordinary shares in the quarter.
We returned roughly $1.9 billion of capital to shareholders in 2015.
Now let me turn to the financial results for the quarter on page 6 of the presentation.
Our core EPS performance excluding certain items increased 20% to $2.27 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $1.89 in the prior year quarter.
Certain items that were adjusted for in core EPS performance and highlighted in the schedule from page 12 of the press release include non-cash intangible asset amortization.
Further included in the results was a $0.10 per share unfavorable impact related to foreign currency translation due to the U.S.
dollar strengthening against most major currencies.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency EPS grew 25% for the fourth quarter and 15% for the full year in line with our compounded annual growth rate of 15% for the last 10 years.
Another year of outstanding performance reflecting the strength of our industry-leading franchise and focus on shareholder value creation.
Going forward if currency were to remain stable at today's rates we would expect substantially less of a headwind with an estimated unfavorable impact of roughly $0.10 for 2016 compared to $0.41 of impact for 2015.
We would expect the majority of this impact to be weighted towards the first half of 2016 more so in the first quarter.
Now let me talk about each of the segments on the next slide.
In our Risk Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 5%.
Operating margin increased 100 basis points to 25.7% and operating income increased 2% compared to the prior year quarter.
Operating income included a $27 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding this impact underlying operating income increased 7% versus the prior year quarter.
Operating margin improvement of 100 basis points includes a 30 basis points favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency underlying operating margin improved 70 basis points in the quarter.
Our fourth quarter performance reflects solid organic growth performance and improved returns on our investments in data and analytics across our portfolio.
For 2015 Risk Solutions operating income decreased 2% which includes a $128 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding this impact underlying operating income increased 5% versus the prior year.
Operating margin increased 70 basis points to 23.6% including a 20 basis points favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency underlying operating margin increased 50 basis points in the year.
We delivered strong operational improvement in 2015 with record operating margins despite significant headwinds from an unfavorable market impact in reinsurance and fragile macroeconomic conditions.
This level of performance reflects strong new business generation and increased operating leverage in the business as well as expense discipline as we optimize our global cost structure.
We expect continued improvement in 2016 and are firmly on track with our long-term target of 26%.
In addition if short-term interest rates continue to rise we believe we have significant leverage to improving interest rate environment as every 100 basis point rise in global interest rates should result in approximately $45 million of investment income.
Turning to the HR Solutions segment organic revenue growth was 4% operating margin increased 270 basis points to 26.2% and operating income increased 14% compared to the prior year quarter.
Operating income included a $6 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
In addition there are approximately $12 million or minus 90 basis points of transaction-related and portfolio-repositioning costs incurred in the quarter as we continue to drive improved return on capital.
The gain related to the sale of our Absence Management business was reported in other income.
Results were driven by organic growth expense discipline and improved returns on investment including healthcare exchanges which delivered modest profitability in 2015.
For the full year operating income increased 7% including a $20 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
Excluding this impact underlying operating income increased 10% compared to the prior year and operating margins increased 100 basis points to a record 18.1%.
This level of performance demonstrates strong improvement over the prior year reflecting solid financial results in our core business as well as improved profitability in the areas we've been investing for long-term growth including delegated investment consulting cloud-based solutions in HR BPO and healthcare exchanges.
Looking forward we expect continued operational improvement in 2016 towards our long-term target of 22% with quarterly patterning of operating income results in HR Solutions similar to 2015.
More specifically down in the first half more so in Q1 and up in the second half most notably Q4.
Now let me discuss a few of the line items outside of the operating segments on slide 9.
Unallocated expenses increased $17 million to $61 million due to the timing of certain employee incentive and employee benefit-related expenses as well as certain investments in shared services.
Interest income was $4 million compared to $3 million from the prior-year quarter.
Interest expense was $68 million in line with quarterly guidance.
Other income of $49 million primarily includes the gain on the sale of our Absence Management business in Outsourcing and HR Solutions.
The sale continues to reflect our effort to drive improved return on capital.
Going forward we expect a run rate of approximately $45 million per quarter of unallocated expense $3 million per quarter of interest income and $68 million of interest expense.
Turning to taxes.
The adjusted effects of tax rate on net income from continuing operations excluding the applicable tax impact associated with expenses related to legacy litigation in Q2 decreased to 17.9% compared to the prior-year quarter at 19.6% due to the favorable impact of certain discrete tax adjustments.
Our estimate of the underlying operating tax rate remains at 19%.
Lastly average diluted shares outstanding decreased 5% to $279.3 million in the fourth quarter compared to $293.4 million in the prior-year quarter as we effectively allocate capital and manage dilution.
The company repurchased 4.3 million Class A ordinary shares for approximately $400 million in the fourth quarter.
The company has $4.1 billion of remaining authorization under its share repurchase program.
Actual shares outstanding on December 31 were 269.8 million and there are approximately 6 million additional dilutive equivalents.
Estimated Q1 2016 beginning dilutive share count is approximately 276 million subject to share price movement share issuance and share repurchase.
Now let me turn to the next slide to highlight our solid balance sheet and strong cash flow growth on slide 10.
At December 31 2015 cash and short-term investments were $740 million.
Total debt outstanding was approximately $5.7 billion and total debt-to-EBITDA on a GAAP basis was 2.3 times.
Cash flow from operations for the year increased 11% or $197 million to a record $2 billion driven by a decline in pension contributions restructuring-related payments cash paid for taxes and working capital improvements partially offset by $137 million in cash paid to settle legacy litigation and strong organic growth performance in the fourth quarter.
Free cash flow is defined by cash flow from operations less CapEx increased 10% or $163 million to a record $1.7 billion reflecting strong growth in cash flow from operations partially offset by a $34 million increase in CapEx.
The increase in CapEx in 2015 was primarily related to completed investments in certain projects to optimize our global real estate portfolio.
As we noted in our press release and related presentations today during the quarter for the years ended December 31 2015 and 2014 we reclassified certain cash flows related to shares withheld for taxes from cash flow from operations to cash flow from financing.
Shares withheld for taxes reflects the choice of colleagues upon vesting to choose gross or net shares to satisfy their withholding requirements.
As nearly all colleagues choose to receive net shares the company then withholds an applicable amount of shares to cover withholding amounts in effect creating a share repurchase-like transaction.
We believe the reclassification of shares withheld for taxes to cash from financing activities provides greater transparency to the cash flow production from operating results underlines more closely with the accounting treatment of comparable peers.
While the reclassification has no actual cash impact on the cash flow statement as a result of a reclassification we are increasing our near-term free cash flow goal from $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion for the full year 2017.
Turning to the next slide to discuss our significantly increasing free cash flow generation.
We value the firm based on free cash flow and allocate capital to maximize free cash flow returns.
Free cash flow of $2.4 billion is not our end goal as further long-term sustainable free cash flow will be driven by continued operating income growth and additional working capital initiatives beyond 2017.
There are four primary areas that are expected to contribute to our goal of delivering $2.4 billion or more for the full year 2017.
The first is continued operational performance driven by organic revenue growth and margin expansion.
The second is working capital improvements as we focus on closing the gap between receivables and payables.
The third is declining uses of cash for pension contributions CapEx from restructuring which will free up more than $90 million of annual free cash flow between the end of 2015 and 2017.
And fourth lower cash tax payments reflecting a lower effective tax rate.
Lastly I would note that during 2015 we paid $137 million of cash to settle a legacy litigation which we would expect to provide a tailwind free cash flow growth in 2016.
Turning to our pension plans.
We have taken significant steps to reduce volatility and liability as we've closed plans to new entrants frozen plans from accruing additional benefits and continue to de-risk certain plan assets.
Based on December 31 2015 actuarial assumptions reported liabilities on a GAAP basis decreased to $1.8 billion at year-end 2015 reflecting a 94% funded status compared to $2.1 billion at year-end 2014 reflecting a 90% funded status.
Not reflected in those amounts however are $1 billion of overfunded pension plans that are included in non-current assets in the balance sheet? Considered together our net unfunded obligations are approximately $800 million.
Overall we expect contributions to decline by approximately $44 million in 2016 and would expect non-cash pension income to be a modest benefit in 2016 versus 2015.
Regarding our restructuring program cash payments declined by $54 million to $28 million in 2015.
As old charges related to restructuring program have been incurred we would expect cash payments to decline by $9 million or approximately $19 million in 2016 and continue to decline thereafter to an immaterial amount.
In summary our results for both the quarter and the full year reflects solid organic growth record operating margin performance across both Risk and HR Solutions strong EPS growth record free cash flow of $1.7 billion and a return of roughly $1.9 billion in capital to shareholders.
Despite challenging macroeconomic and industry-specific headwinds our industry-leading franchise is strongly positioned to help clients manage through increasing complexity magnitude and volatility across the areas of risk retirement and health.
With that I would like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
At this time we don't have any questions on queue.
Sorry.
Apparently we're having some difficulty on the queues  on the questions.
We've got a number in queue.
I can assure you we'll take all the time we need today to answer any and all the questions we've got so be comfortable with that.
We'll work out this logistical glitch a bit.
And they're coming up in a bit so just a little patience and we're going to get this moving as soon as we can.
So apologies for that.
Redial back in and I think you'll get to the front of the queue.
Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Ryan are you with us? Dave I think you might be up.
Hey Greg.
Yes please.
Hey.
Sorry about that.
My first question is for Christa and it's just  I think she said that non-cash pension income will be a benefit this year versus 2015.
Just wondering if you could quantify that what the benefit is? Yeah.
It's small Ryan but it is going to be up slightly year-over-year.
Okay.
And then just on the reclassification I guess just trying to understand what's going on here.
I think last year you guys still had something like $300 million-plus of share-based compensation that was helping free cash flow but now it sounds like you're moving something to financing activities.
I'm just trying to understand why it sounds like there might be some share-based compensation that's still helping free cash flow and some that might have been moved to financing activities.
Yeah.
So I think the first thing to say Ryan is this has  this reclassification has no cash impact on total cash generated or cash paid in previous or future periods.
I think the issue you're referring to is actually quite a different issue.
The reason we did this was really as a preferable classification and it's consistent with peers.
And we feel like it's a much cleaner way to explain our overall cash flow and cash flow growth.
The stock compensation expense is stable and has not changed.
Okay.
And then Just one last one I know the guide to the tax rate is at about 19% but over the past couple of years it's coming a little bit below that.
I just wanted to make sure the $2.4 billion 2017 free cash flow target that we can assume that that's  that's assuming a 19% tax rate.
Ryan we expect 19% to be our underlying operational rate going forward.
I think what shows up in any one year is impacted by discrete tax adjustments.
They can be positive or negative and we actually can't forecast them.
And the reason our full-year tax rate for 2015 on an adjusted basis was 17.9% was because we had positive discrete tax adjustments.
So what we would say is the right underlying rate to model for the company and we use ourselves is 19% but then discrete tax adjustments can come in positive or negative.
Okay.
But  so the 2.4% though is absent though the discrete tax adjustments just over the past couple of years I think have been positive correct? Yeah.
I mean it is impossible by nature of those adjustments to predict them because they happened at the time.
Okay.
I'll stop there.
Thanks so much guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Dan Farrell of Piper Jaffray.
Sir your line is open.
To your cash flow growth targets even if we take into account the pension decreases and some of the change there's some healthy growth there.
I'm wondering if you could comment on ReView on the underlying macro trends that you think you might need for that? If we look at the last couple of years certainly you would probably have more headwinds than we would've thought we're going to have.
And do you think you need any of that to reverse  or with the current headwinds that we're seeing do you think that that cash flow is still achievable? Thank you.
Yeah.
I think it's a great question Dan because we have had some significant headwinds in the last couple of years most notably FX which had a $140 million impact on operating income in calendar year 2015.
We would say that we do not need changes in the macro environment to achieve our $2.4 billion in free cash flow in 2017.
If you think about the $1.7 billion of free cash flow we delivered in 2015 you can add back the $137 million of cash we spent on litigation in 2015 and then you can add about $100 million of improvement in free cash flow from decreased uses of cash between now and 2017.
So you're already up to $2 billion of free cash flow and then you really need an incremental $400 million from revenue growth and margin expansion and improved working capital.
And so we really believe that we have exceptionally strong free cash flow over the coming years and exceptionally strong free cash flow per share as we expect declining share counts between now and 2017 too.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question that we do have comes from the line of Sarah DeWitt of JPMC.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning and congrats on a good quarter.
First on the brokerage organic growth the 5% this is the best result you've had in years.
Could you just talk about what changed versus the third quarter? Yeah Sarah.
First step back reflect  if you think about brokerage overall it's consistent with what we're trying to achieve over the course of the year being able to grow in virtually every environment and we've been able to do that.
And in the fourth quarter what you're seeing is just at continuation.
So for us it's really nothing new but a continuation of the yield on a lot of the investments we're making in the business and the progress we're making across the business overall.
And listen we saw the new business characteristics in U.S.
Retail for example.
These are records  record-on-record in fact in terms of sort of what's happened over the course of the last year.
So for us this is just a continuation in terms of sort of where we are.
Across the business we really like our position now the way we finish in 2015 and our position in 2016 and the trajectory going into 2016 overall.
So for us what you would read into this is this is just another quarter kind of on a proof point of our underlying capability and expect continued growth at the same levels going forward and the ability frankly to deal with any headwinds that are out there as we've been able to do and move the business forward.
Okay great.
And then on consulting the organic growth is usually seasonally highest in the fourth quarter because of private health exchanges.
Why wasn't that the case this year? And could you just give us your latest thoughts on what you view is the opportunity for private health exchanges especially since there has been some press that larger players are a bit slower to adopt and Cadillac tax might be pushed out? Well first take a step back over all HR Solutions.
Again we love where we finished on the risk side.
We really like where we finished on HR Solutions.
And this is a business over the course of the year that produced 10% operating income growth grew at 4%.
We made substantial  and by the way also achieved record margins.
We made substantial investment scenarios like retirement and delegated it across the board and in our Health Solutions.
And again we look at Health Solutions across the board really every category in terms of the ability to help clients with this very important challenge they've got around the health side.
And we think we've got one of the strongest capabilities here whether it's H&amp;B whether it's global benefits across the board and on the exchanges.
Retiree active employee self all across the board.
And what we would say if you think about sort of quarter-over-quarter first we would agree the adoption on the health active side across the board especially the larger end hasn't been as fast as expected.
By the way especially given some of the results we've seen with existing clients because it's been a bit exceptional.
Reduced volatility for them price reductions year-over-year.
25% in fact had price reductions over the last year.
So we're very very positive in terms of the overall impact.
The pipeline looks very very strong.
And again even in the exchange business as it exists we had double-digit growth and it's profitable.
So for us we love this solution on behalf of clients but as part of our broader health solution.
I would reflect by the way in the fourth quarter last year we had the single largest implementation on the retiree side sort of in the history of the world and maybe will forever be in the history of the world.
And that actually influenced results a bit too.
But we really like the business overall tremendously and we're really feeling good about our position in HR Solutions.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question that we do have comes from the line of Quentin McMillan.
Your line is open  from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks very much.
Can I ask a question on seasonality a two-part question? One on just the reinsurance brokerage organic bounce-back this quarter after a couple of quarters of negative growth.
So it's nice to see some positive trend there.
But the last time that you shared a positive number was in 4Q 2014.
It may just be coincidence that that happened year-over-year but can you talk about sort of how you account for revenue recognition in the reinsurance brokerage and if there's anything to read into that and then possibly what that could mean for next year or for 4Q 2016? And then on the HR Solutions side your profitability in the fourth quarter basically doubles from the rest of the quarter.
So can you just help us to also understand why there's so much more profitability in 4Q other than just the healthcare exchanges and if there's anything else that we can kind of look at that? Thanks so much.
So let me do sort of just technically how we account for reinsurance because I think that's one of your questions.
So we account for revenue and reinsurance over the course of a 12-month period of time.
And so therefore what you're seeing in Q4 is revenue that was placed over the last 12 months.
And that's really for our treaty business I'm talking about which is about 80% to 85% of our total revenue.
So 12-month revenue recognition.
So what you're seeing in our Q4 results is the last four quarters of revenue.
And so it's sort of a lagging indicator because you're getting price over that last 12 months showing up in our current year's results.
The facultative and capital markets they are recognized in the quarter so that's sort of 15% to 20% of our revenue.
And so if you step back on the reinsurance side basically in terms of where we finish and thinking about going into 2016.
Again this is consistent with the theme across the company.
We feel very good about how we finish the year and what it sets to save for in 2016.
Obviously again looking at in terms of the overall year we're not happy with the level of growth and reinsurance of negative 1% for the year.
But we've said already we expect reinsurance to return a positive organic growth in 2016.
And for us  especially for our reinsurance business maybe more than any other.
It's a great example of a business right now as business results don't really reflect the underlying capability and opportunity we see which is exceptional.
I mean think about it we're the largest adviser in the world in this area and really number one in treaty number one in fact number one on the alternative capital side capital markets.
20% of the global book is linked to U.S.
property cat and that's wholly commission based.
Those rates have come down 15% to 25% over the last 24 months and that's been reflected.
Probably those are starting to flatten out a bit; the decrease is not as great.
But against that it's really been the team's ability to continue to win 19 consecutive quarters of wins on treaty reinsurance which had been exceptional and really the ability to create net new demand.
And this is really in areas like mortgage overall and what we've done in ReView.
So they've been able to offset these headwinds which are diminishing those businesses that they've offset whether they're going to continue to grow.
And the opportunity going into 2016 we feel very good.
And we'd say by the way just technically the 2% in this quarter is on top of a 5% in the Q4 2014 so it was kind of on top of a very strong comparable.
So we feel good about the position and we love this business.
We're very excited about it.
So maybe we go back to Christa on the HR Solutions side on sort of the seasonality overall.
Sure.
So what I would describe Quentin is we have an HR business which is very seasonally orientated towards the second half of the year and in particular towards Q4.
As we think about the patenting for HR Solutions in 2016 it will look very similar to 2015 where from an operating income point of view we are down in the first half particularly in Q1.
We're up in the second half particularly in Q4.
As you think about the overall HR Solutions business we really have a very significant bias towards Q4 with annual enrollment in our benefits administration business primarily occurring in Q4 and healthcare exchanges primarily occurring in Q4 where you have expenses showing up in Q1 Q2 Q3 and Q4 and revenue really coming through in Q4.
And so that's why we're primarily a Q4-orientated business in terms of revenue and therefore operating income.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> That's perfect.
Thanks so much guys.
And if I can sneak one more in just in terms of the leverage that you guys have.
The debt to EBITDA came down from 2.6 to 2.3 in the quarter.
And I think you'd previously indicated that you were sort of comfortable with that 2.6 level and a willingness and an indication that you wanted to  you could use shares in the  I'm sorry use debt in the future to repurchase shares.
Is that still sort of the lineup to where your  what you think for 2016 and going forward? And what level do you feel comfortable at? Yeah.
It's a great question Quentin.
So what we would say is strong free cash flow generation and therefore EBITDA growth allows us to continue to increase leverage in line with the 2 to 2.5 times leverage ratio.
So we do see the opportunity for incremental leverage given the strong free cash flow and EBITDA growth of the company.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
The next question that we do have comes from the line of Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The sale of the Absence Management company just a couple of points around that.
Was that business higher or lower margin than your overall? In other words will that help the margin going forward? So as we think about the Absence Management business it's a terrific business helping businesses really manage their workforce overall.
One of the things we would say about that business is given the high demand from corporations to manage their workforce and of the absence of their employees over time it has significant  very high capital requirement to invest in this business over the coming years.
And as we look at our strategy it's not as core to our strategy as some other areas in which we've been investing.
And so as we think about the need to invest capital in this business over the coming years we do believe that Guardian has a much higher priority in this area and they're going to substantially invest.
And so we feel really good about partnering with them to continue to serve our clients in this area.
We did not disclose the financials in this business but you should think about this business as overall in line with our focus on improvement return on capital.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just detail on that.
I think you mentioned maybe $12 million of transaction cost.
Was that in the operating line or was that adjusted out? It is included in our HR Solutions operating income so it is in the operating line.
So as we think about this business there is obviously a gain that shows up in other income which is quite significant.
And then there are transaction costs and severance related to this showing up in the operating income of HR Solutions.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And was the revenue for the Absence Management was that pulled out for the fourth quarter or was that in the fourth quarter? It was in the fourth quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Then on the  staying with the solutions on the HR cloud business.
Is that business growing materially faster than your overall business? And how's the pipeline of large clients looking for 2016? Yeah...
This business has done exceptionally well.
We love the position overall and it's growing well above double-digits.
The fundamental capability we've got and the need clients have around HR transformation and improvement is just exceptional.
And the capability we've got on the Workday front in particular is really really carving out a lot of space there for us.
And we're seeing the growth not only in the HR side but we're also seeing it as clients think about beyond HR transformation how it relates to finance transformation.
And this combination has just been incredibly positive.
By the way Aon itself has going to do the same thing.
We adopted Workday on the HR side.
We've now adopted Workday and are implemented on the finance side.
And we see the potential and our clients see it as well.
So for us this has been a very very strong growth business.
We really like the capabilities here and the prospects on behalf of our clients.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And just one more.
In the risk business how much are exposures helping more now than a couple of quarters ago? Exposures continue to be helpful.
And by the way it is the right question because in the end a lot's discussed on price.
It really is an issue of exposures as much as price.
And again we can clinically look at this with the Risk Insight Platform across our entire book at a very micro level.
When you add all that together price and exposures they're net-net stable.
So the market roughly is stable.
So a little up a little down but roughly it's been stable.
And I'm really looking at the chart right now across multiple quarters and it's give or take stable.
The prices have come down a little bit exposures have come up and we  just how the market overall has performed.
From our standpoint that's right we don't really look at market conditions as an excuse not to grow or reinforcement to grow.
We're going to grow either way we have proven we can do that.
2015 is another example of that.
We'll see it in 2016.
And we've more than offset price changes and exposure changes with net new business and net new capabilities we brought to the marketplace as well as our ability to retain our existing book of business and actually add services on to that.
So for us overall it's been market stable.
And our ability to deal with it has been quite positive.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question that we do have comes from the line of Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
First question is on the HR Solutions.
And in the past you have been guiding like year-over-year improvements in terms of underlying margin as well as operating income; it grows from mid to high single digits.
I just wonder is that still valid going forward? Hi.
We fully expect to grow revenue organically to continue to expand margins and to grow operating income in HR Solutions as we have in 2015.
Okay.
That's great.
And then just a number of question on the free cash flow target $2.4 billion looks like 2015 the reclassification as you benefit about more than $200 million.
So the raise of your guidance the $100 million I just wonder what's the calculation behind it? Yeah.
I think one of these things that shares with help from taxes is really driven.
The amount is the result of employee choice and the market value of the stock two variables of which we have no control.
So as we think about it we think that we have very strong free cash flow growth over the next coming years and therefore $2.4 billion is the right number.
And this particular element we took out really has no impact on cash.
And so we think that therefore $2.4 billion is the right goal going forward.
So there's no change in the underlying forecast for your free cash flow target? No.
Okay.
That's great.
And lastly Greg if you could talk about on the acquisition front because the buybacks have been very meaningful return to shareholders.
I just wonder like in this marketplace where do you see the platform capability you could help grow like in the future and how do you balance between acquisitions versus shared buybacks? Yeah Kai.
We actually look at both and if you look at our history over the last 10 years we've actually been a little more leaning towards acquisitions when you look at some of the amount of our overall investments versus what the buyback has been over time.
And underlying that if you look back over the last 10 years our operating income growth year-over-year has been roughly 11%.
So it's something we've really invested in.
And invested heavily in organic improvement as well as I've described before.
The level of capabilities that we're investing in for existing clients new clients and on the data and analytics side is we believe candidly quite unprecedented.
If you think about data and analytics Global Risk Insight Platform to ReView to the Aon Client Treaty now at the endpoint all the work we've done and delegated exchanges you get the picture.
So we're very very much focused on investment back into the business.
And M&amp;A plays a big role on that and will continue to play a big role on that.
And we probably  I'm looking at Christa  we'll probably look at more deals this year situations this year that may be any time at our history measured in the billions.
Done fewer of them because we're always going to be disciplined around return on investment capital.
Christa has in place a very very structured way to think about how we can very meticulously invest our capital to get to the highest return on capital generate free cash flow and build wealth for our shareholders.
And in the context of that serve clients in a very very effective way.
And that's really the machine we've set up.
That's how the engine runs and that's what we've done.
So we're going to continue to look at where the best places to place our capital.
And we'll be open to acquisitions as we are organic investment buyback and all of the above.
That's really how we're looking at it.
Okay.
Specifically kind of a follow-up if there's a price like discussion about wholesale platform.
I'm wondering if that's something would be of your interest? Again we're not going to comment on specific situations or categories.
But you can imagine we're going to do what we need to do to actually support our clients and deliver distinctive value to our clients and do it in a way again that returns benefits to our shareholders.
So we're going to look at capabilities across the board.
We've partnered with great capability on the wholesale side.
We're going to continue to do that and always look at options.
That's great.
Well thank you so much and good luck.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question that we do have comes from the line of Vinay Misquith of Sterne Agee CRT.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
So the first question is on the HR Solutions.
Margins grew by 100 basis points this year while organic revenue growth was actually lower this year that's 2015 versus 2014.
Curious how you've managed to expand margins even though the organic revenues were lower this year versus last year.
Yeah.
It's a great question and I think it's really about the investments we've made Vinay and the areas of growth that we've outlined: delegated investment management HR BPO and our cloud solutions and healthcare exchanges.
And they are generating great returns on investments which is how we're able to continue to expand margins and grow operating income at lower levels of organic growth.
And so we will continue to manage the portfolio on a return-on-capital basis.
And generating improved cash flow from the investments we've made organically and inorganically in our business.
Vinay really what's been highlighted here is the idea of operational leverage.
And a lot of the core organic investments we make in the areas Christa described same is true by the way on the Risk Solutions side is the reason again back to we're very confident comfortable talking about margin expansion in lower growth environments.
By the way don't take away from that that we're not interested in growing organically.
We're absolutely focused on that and that is a high priority and we'll continue to do that.
But our ability to actually produce results in a variety of environments is really a function of our ability to invest heavily back in the business from an organic standpoint.
So that's helpful.
And now within the segment I believe there were $12 million of costs.
So should we sort of add back those $12 million to say that that's the normalized operating income for the segment for this year? Yeah I think that's probably right.
Okay.
Great.
And then one last question just on the free cash flow and maybe my math is not that great but my understanding is that the reclassification helped the free cash flow by about $200 million.
And the future guidance for free cash flow has increased only by $100 million.
So have the underlying cash flows for the future sort of come down by $100 million? No they have not.
So one of the things that I tried and obviously failed to communicate earlier was this number varies substantially by year.
And the amount is a result of employee's choice growth in net shares and the market value of our stock.
Therefore we have no control over the number.
As we think about our free cash flow going forward there is no change to our view on the underlying free cash flow growth of the firm.
We do believe that this amount going forward is somewhere between $0 and $100 million therefore we've increased our target by $100 million to $2.4 billion.
One of the other things I would make clear is that the $2.4 billion in free cash flow in 2017 is fully deployable cash because if you look at the $1.7 billion we generated in 2015 we actually returned $1.9 billion of cash to shareholders in 2015.
So we are generating a huge amount of cash which we can fully deploy on either return to shareholders or as Greg said investing back into our business either organically or inorganically in the form of M&amp;A.
So we're very excited about the future growth potential of the firm given the huge cash flow generation we're going to produce.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question we do have comes from the line of Charles Sebaski of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you.
I guess the first question Christa a follow-up to the free cash flow question going forward.
With regard to the working capital improvement I guess I was just hoping you can just help me understand a little bit how that is truly incremental as opposed to timing.
I guess if I think you pull in your accounts receivable and push out payables is a timing issue but is there something else in that that's truly incremental to free cash flow? Yeah.
Well the one other thing that I would say is that we are on a sort of march now to really improve our flow-through of every $1 of revenue through to $1 of free cash flow.
And I would say we're on a 10-year journey to get there.
I think the overall industry in which we operate has not been particularly focused on free cash flow and I think it has been a journey for us which we've been on really for the last you know almost five years.
And I think as we continue to improve the collection of cash from customers and we continue to manage the payment of cash to suppliers we believe that we have improvements in cash for at least the next five years to eight years in terms of working capital.
And it's structural improvements in the process around which we do this in the way in which we manage this in the overall portfolio of business we do.
So I guess what I would say as you think about Aon we believe we should be working capital neutral overall and we are far from that today.
So we believe the upside in terms of cash from working capital is substantial over the coming years.
I guess and obviously you guys are a different business or like in a different business but I guess in some other industries if you pull in your receivables faster an incremental improvement might be of less charge-offs right? You have less credit events; that there's something is truly is incrementally increasing as opposed to just the time value of money by getting that cash flow today versus 90 days from now.
I guess I'm wondering is there structural elements in that improvement for you or is it timing related? It's absolutely structural.
If you think about today we are tying up a huge amount of cash essentially by not collecting the cash from customers early enough or by paying suppliers.
And so as we think about return on capital of Aon we are managing our overall portfolio to improve cash in this area.
And we would say we are making structural process improvements and have for the last couple of years.
You can see it if you look at receivables divided by revenue you can see days sales outstanding improve over time.
And the same on the supplier side.
And so whether we're improving invoice velocity or eliminating prepaid expenses there are a number of structural things we're doing to improve the flow-through of $1 revenue to $1of free cash flow.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
I guess finally just on the risk business and the investments you guys have made in the data and analytics.
I think now we more clearly see on the reinsurance side or maybe the GRIP program with the insurance carriers.
I was hoping you might be able to just expound a little bit on where maybe some of these data and analytic investments are helping you improve the retail.
I don't know if you need to charge for it at the retail level or if it flows through in organic growth.
And that piece of it if you think of kind of the multitude pieces in the risk business the real core retail side and where the data and analytics is helping the business there.
So the effort on data and analytics has really been multi-year and ongoing.
And for us we believe it's going to be fundamental to what we needed to try to get it accomplished over time Charles.
It really is going to be differentiated in terms of our capability versus the marketplace.
And there are many examples.
By the way the risk insight platform efforts really are actually the work is done directly with the primary insurers serving clients.
So it actually touches very much the primary insurance marketplace.
But let me give you one example that  I happened to be just in London yesterday with Lloyd's and Lloyd's syndicates.
We just launched something called Aon Client Treaty which is a very  it's basically built on a foundation around data and analytics.
So in essence it will be when done the single biggest underlying transaction likely in the history of Lloyd's to-date and it really takes our book that goes into the London market to our global broking center and we actually modeled that book in detail really bottom up all different aspects of what's going on.
64 000 policy transactions 120 different classes of business 157 countries.
You get the idea.
We built an incredible data room in which underwriters will come in and actually take a company-level understanding at underwriting and then apply it to portfolio level.
And in essence what we're saying to our client by the way on Monday happening at our Property Symposium I'm talking to clients in our Property Symposium and essentially saying if you're going to use London capacity you've eliminated your tail risks.
So when you actually think about the set of syndicates that are actually going to come to bear on behalf of you the last three four or five actually create risk.
We've eliminated that.
So we've actually pre-confirmed 20% of that capacity that will follow a lead capacity going into London.
That makes that capital we're bringing to bear much much more competitive.
So there's an example of hard clear data and analytics but essentially we've analyzed our book sort of it happens to be in the London marketplace but imagine we can look at this all over the world in which we're actually providing distinctive value unduplicated value to clients using data and analytics.
So that was a little bit longwinded but I hope you get the idea that it's a very powerful tool.
By the way in order to do that you had to be able to analyze all 6 000 clients going into London in a way that frankly leverages off our risk insight platform.
Never been done before.
Thank you very much for the answers.
Thank you.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Case for the closing remarks.
Excellent.
Well let me apologize again for the logistics during the Q&amp;A.
If anything comes up and you want to ask us please feel free.
We're available at any time.
And just appreciate everybody for being on the call today.
And look forward to catching up at the end of the first quarter.
Thanks very much.
That concludes this conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.