Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you.
And good morning everyone and welcome Caterpillar's First Quarter Earnings Call.
I'm Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
And I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and our Group President and CFO Ed Rapp with me on the call today.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
any use recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we'll be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website.
It'll be in the area labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22 2011 and also in the forward-looking statement language contained in today's release.
Okay this morning we were pleased to report financial results for the first quarter of 2011 that were significantly better than last year's first quarter.
Sales and revenues were over $12.9 billion and profit was $1.84 a share in the quarter.
Sales and revenues were up 57% and profit was up over 400%.
It was the best quarter for profit in our history.
You'll also see in this morning's release that we raised the full-year outlook for 2011 sales and revenues and profits.
And to start this morning I'll summarize the results then Doug Ed and I will take your questions.
Also in this morning's release you may have noticed that we have made changes in our reporting format including revised segment disclosures.
As a part of the strategy update that Doug rolled out last year the company was reorganized around end-to-end businesses managed by our Group President.
That's how we're managing the company and that's now how we're reporting.
This morning's release is structured around those new segments.
We're reporting sales and revenues by segment and geography and operating profit by segment and we're providing sales and operating profit commentary by segment.
The segments that make up our Machinery and Power Systems businesses include both the sales of new equipment and aftermarket support for the businesses they serve.
While there is a more complete description of each of the segments in the glossary in today's release and I encourage you to read them in a nutshell the segments are: Construction Industries which are essentially the businesses of CAT that support customers in most types of construction all around the world everything from compact machines for a landscaper to larger machines to build a highway.
Then there's Resource Industries where we serve customers in areas such as mining quarrying and forestry.
Next is Power Systems which encompasses reciprocating engines and turbines across industries serving oil and gas electric power marine and industrial engines; and our Rail-related businesses including new locomotives from EMD and Rail Services from Progress Rail.
We're reporting Financial Products in this segment and there's an All Other Segments.
The largest sales contributor to the all other segment is External Logistics and Remanufacturing.
Again I'd encourage you to read through the glossary of this morning's release to better understand what's in each segment.
Okay let's get to the numbers.
And again sales and revenues were up 57%.
Now in that number Financial Products revenues were nearly flat and Machinery and Power Systems sales were up 63% or $4.7 billion.
Now in that 63% increase in sales Construction Industries were up 71%; Resource Industries up 84%; and Power Systems sales were up 51%.
Another way to look at the $4.7 billion increase in sales $4.1 billion of it was from higher sales volume.
And most of the sales volume increase was driven by customer demand with first quarter dealer-machine sales to end-users up 61%.
In addition during the first quarter dealers did increase dealer-machine inventory about $800 million from year-end 2010 and dealers commonly increased their inventories during the first quarter of the year to support higher end-user sales levels that usually occur during the spring and summer selling season.
We do not expect to see this level of increase during the rest of the year.
In the first quarter of 2010 by comparison dealer-machine inventories were about flat with year-end 2009.
Now in addition to the higher volume $295 million of today's sales increase was from improved price realizations.
$264 million was from the acquisition of EMD that was not included in the first quarter of 2010 and currency impacts were positive to sales by $94 million.
Sales improved in all 4 major geographic regions; North America up 72%; Latin America up 90%; Europe Africa/Middle East up 67%; and Asia/Pacific up 35%.
Now the increase in North America may seem surprising with the continuing depressed level of construction activity in the United States.
Housing starts are at historic lows.
Commercial Construction is still very weak.
But in the phase of weak construction activity sales from our Construction Industry segment were 92% in North America.
While the growth rate is dramatic remember it's coming off of a very low base in 2010.
And sales of new construction equipment in North America remained well below the 2006 peak in fact new machine volume is still only about half of the 2006 peak levels.
Now most of the machines sold in North America we think are likely replacing aging machines and customer fleets and in dealer rental fleets.
During the recession customers cut machine purchases much more rapidly and deeply than overall construction spending decline.
As a result their fleets both shrunk in size and age and we're seeing that in customer fleets and we're seeing it in dealer-rental fleets.
We believe customers are beginning to buy enough machines now to slow or stop their fleets from continuing to degrade.
But let's be clear though.
We do not think this is any kind of a bubble.
It's not that customers are buying more than they need.
And judging by what we're seeing in dealer rental fleets we're not seeing increases in either fleet size or a reduction in fleet age.
We believe they are essentially buying enough to keep their fleets from continuing to degrade.
Let me give you a few statistics about North American dealer-rental fleets that illustrate that point.
Let's start here with BCP products in rental fleets and that would be small and compact machines.
Rental fleet sizes are still very close to the recession load and the fleet is older than it's ever been.
In fact the rental fleet for BCP-sized product is even smaller than it was in the 2002 recession and about 50% older than it was then.
It's a similar story for earthmoving products in rental fleets.
Despite higher sales to dealers for rental the size of their fleets continued to decline during the quarter and remains both smaller and older than even the 2002 recession.
The dealer-rental fleets for excavation products also declined in unit volume in the first quarter despite much higher sales to dealers.
And fleets were at their lowest levels since we've been tracking it and the average age of the fleet is the oldest on record.
Now an actual Construction activity like housing starts commercial building and road construction begin to improve it will likely place additional pressure on customers on dealer rental fleets to both improve fleet age and increase fleet sizes.
In short new machine sales in the United States while better are still depressed and far below the peaks of 2006.
When Construction activity begins to improve we expect sales will continue to improve.
Now in addition to Construction activity Mining and Power Systems also improved in North America but again from low levels in the first quarter of 2010.
Mining activity and higher commodity prices including coal have encouraged customers to invest in large mining equipment.
And higher sales to oil and gas and electric power customers along with the acquisition of EMD drove the increase in Power Systems sales.
Outside of North America sales continued to improve in the developing countries around the world.
Machinery and Power Systems sales increased in the developing countries of Africa the Middle East and the CIS.
Sales were up 90% in Latin America and 35% in Asia Pacific.
Economic growth in developing countries has been good and is driving investment and infrastructure and increased demand for commodities.
And that continues to be good for our business.
A wise man in Caterpillar once said "The road to progress begins with a road." And that's what we're seeing in emerging markets.
In Europe sales improved as well and the reasons were similar to those in North America the slower stop of deterioration in age and the size of customer machine fleets and dealer rental fleets.
Okay let's turn to first quarter profit for a moment.
It was a record at $1 225 000 000 and that was almost $1 billion higher than the $233 million from the first quarter of 2010.
Profit per share was $1.84 more than 5x the $0.36 a share from the first quarter of 2010.
Higher sales volume was the primary reason that profit improved in the first quarter of 2010.
Price realization was also a positive at $295 million.
Now partially offsetting the higher volume and improved price realization manufacturing cost were $219 million higher.
Most of that increase was the result of higher period costs to support the large volume increases and from higher incentive compensation.
Material and freight costs were also slightly higher.
Considering the size of the volume increase the scale of capacity increased projects we're working on and commodity-related pressures on material costs cost control in the first quarter was good.
SG&amp;A and R&amp;D cost were also up $219 million and driven by higher incentive compensation cost to support new product development programs and the impact of the much higher sales volume.
While costs were up some as a percent of sales in our Machinery and Power Systems businesses the combined SG&amp;A and R&amp;D went from about 15.9% of sales down to a year ago down to about 12% of sales of this year and that reflects our continued focus on controlling period costs.
Now currency at an operating profit level was also negative.
It was positive to sales $94 million but the impact on operating costs was negative $118 million.
In total then it was negative to operating profit $24 million.
Below the operating profit line other income was $17 million.
And that was down $46 million from the first quarter of 2010.
And most of that reduction was mark-to-market losses on interest rate swaps that we put in place in preparation for the Bucyrus acquisition and cost for bridge financing related to the Bucyrus acquisition.
Moving down the income statement to taxes there are 2 points of interest to note on income taxes.
First the quarter reflects an estimated annual rate of 29% back a point lower than the 30% rate from the first quarter of 2010 but at the point higher than the 28% level that was in our full-year outlook that we released back in January.
Now the second point on taxes is that the first quarter of 2010 that's a year ago included a discrete charge of $90 million and that was in addition to the taxes at the estimated annual rate and that charge was related to the enactment of the U.S.
healthcare legislation last year.
I'll cover one final point and then move onto the outlook and that point is incremental margin the subject I know many of you are interested in.
Now we put a Q&amp;A on incremental margins in our release this morning it's question 14 on Page 17 of this morning's release.
And consolidated sales and revenues were up $4.7 billion.
Consolidated operating profit and these were off the page of the statements were up $1 325 000 000.
That's an incremental margin rate of about 28%.
But to do it apples-to-apples you need to exclude the acquisition of EMD and if you do that it was more than 29%.
Incremental margins were good in Construction Industries Resource Industries and in Power Systems segments.
We executed well in the quarter and did a good job of controlling costs.
As a result consolidated operating profit as a percent of sales was 14.2%.
Okay that's a quick review of the quarter let's move onto the outlook.
To start I'd like to clarify what's in the outlook and what's not.
In 2010 we announced 3 acquisitions that were large by CAT standards: EMD MWM and Bucyrus.
We closed EMD in the third quarter of 2010.
It's in our results today and it's in our full-year outlook.
Because we have not closed either MWM or Bucyrus transactions neither was included in our outlook and that's our long-standing policy.
We don't include acquisitions until after they close.
With that in mind this morning we raise the outlook for 2011.
We now expect sales and revenues to be between $52 billion and $54 billion.
In our previous outlook expected sales and revenues to exceed $50 billion.
In our new outlook we expect profit in a range of $6.25 to $6.75 a share and that's up from our previous outlook of net expected profit near $6 a share.
While our 2011 outlook has improved the increase would have been greater if not for the impact of the disaster in Japan.
Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the earthquake and tsunami but many of our suppliers in Japan were.
As a result we are experiencing sporadic production disruptions at many of our facilities around the world.
These disruptions are having a negative impact on the sales factory efficiency and costs like premium freight.
While the situation has steadily improved in the aftermath of the disaster it will likely have a negative impact on 2011 sales of about $300 million and negatively impact operating profit by about $100 million.
And the most significant impact is expected to be in the second quarter.
In terms of the improvement in the profit outlook higher sales volume was by far the main driver.
Overall the net of price realization and operating costs isn't much different than our original outlook for 2010.
Price realization will likely be a little bit better but material and freight costs a little worse.
On balance though the big driver in the profit outlook is sales volume.
Below operating profit in the outlook we do expect more headwind on the tax rate.
And again we raised our full-year estimate from 28% to 29%.
Okay that's it for the outlook and sales and profit in the quarter.
Before we take your questions I'd like to quickly touch on 3 additional points and they are employment cash flow and investment in capacity.
Since the end of the first quarter of 2010 we've added almost 21 000 people to our global workforce.
About half are full-time Caterpillar employees and about half are in our flexible workforce.
In total that represents an increase of over 19% in the total global workforce.
That's very positive news for employees and the communities that they're located in.
In terms of cash flow Machinery and Power Systems' operating cash flow improved over 50% from the first quarter of 2010 and was over $1.6 billion in the quarter.
Our Machinery and Power Systems debt-to-capital ratio dropped from over 47% at year-end 2009 to 34.8% at year-end 2010 down to 30.4% at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
That's a drop of almost 4.5 points from year end.
Cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet were almost $4.9 billion at the end of March as we're accumulating cash in our effort to minimize or eliminate the need for new equity to fund the acquisition of Bucyrus.
All in all a very good cash flow for the quarter.
Finally investment and additional capacity is very high on our list of priorities.
In fact our current outlook for 2011 is capacity constraint for some products such as excavators and many of our large Mining products.
We are investing in capacity increases around the world to be prepared for 2012 and beyond including substantial investment in the United States.
In fact more than half of the $3 billion that we expect to spend on capital expenditures in 2011 is being invested in the United States.
Expansions that have been announced around the world include capacity expansion for mining trucks in Decatur Illinois a new loader power training facility in the U.S.; expansion of our BCP products in North Carolina; a new engineering design center in the United States; a new excavator facility in Texas; a new factory to manufacture locomotives in Muncie Indiana; capacity expansion for mining trucks in India; significant increases in excavator capacity in China; a new factory for small wheel loaders and backhaul loaders in Brazil; a new mini excavator factory in China; an new internal logistics center in China; and a new factory to produce 3 500 series engines in Tianjin China.
As we move forward we'll continue to evaluate capacity needs based on our expectation of future demand.
Okay that summarizes this morning's release.
And with that Doug Ed and I are ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Stephen Volkmann.
Inc.</strong> It's Jefferies &amp; Company.
I'm wondering I guess if I could just start with a little bit of a philosophical question Mike you talked about how sales is being driven by some replacement in the fleets and that as you pointed out a lot of the fundamental drivers like Construction spending and so forth haven't really kicked in yet.
How long do we think we can continue to drive these types of strong sales just based on that type of demand? And when do we need the actual end markets to really start to kick up for us? Well I don't know if I would give a -- put a time on it but what I would tell you right now is I think we're in a position where dealers would like to increase rental fleet sizes.
I think they would like to improve the quality of fleets.
For a lot of product we are producing as much as we can like excavators for example where we're capacity constrained.
So I still think there still needs to be more I think upgrading of the fleets even before thinking about real I would say Construction-led demand from Construction spending.
Now this is going to sound like an idiom an odd comment but in a lot of ways this has been pretty good for us.
I think that had the U.S.
roared back with big housing starts a highway build and improvement in commercial construction it would have been very very tough given the strength in emerging markets I think for us to deal with that.
That's why given my little intro there that's partly why we have all those investment capacity additions going.
Yes I'll just add to that Mike.
It's Doug Oberhelman here and I'm not going to put a timeframe on it either.
But if you really look at what's happening in the U.S.
it's a very slow recovery from very low numbers for us which means all that is in front of us.
Rental fleet rebuild customer aging fleet rebuild and in construction activity.
So Mike is exactly right.
We're in a very good position in this recovery where we can really get our factories an order.
We can apply our CPS Cat Production System disciplines to get this going so that when the Construction activity rebounds in the developed world call it the U.S.
and certainly Western Europe we're going to be ready but I don't know.
The economists on the call would have a lot better view of when that's going to happen than I am but that day is coming.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I could just follow-up Mike I understand the new segment reporting is closer to the way you guys look at things but it leaves us a little bit high and dry as we try to think about forecasting and modeling.
And I'm wondering based on the margins that you guys reported for this quarter are those the right type of margins to think about going forward? Was there anything big seasonally or any other type of special situations that would mean maybe that 29% for example in resources isn't what we should think about going forward or any help you can give us with the segments? Sure.
I'll just point out one thing on the segments.
The operating profit numbers that we're reporting that's how we're looking at it internally.
Now in the sales numbers that we're reporting by segment that's external sales sales to outsiders.
The profit numbers include some intercompany sales as well.
And you'll notice in the sales table we have some footnotes below that that show the intercompany sales numbers as well.
So if you're calculating actual margin numbers to match up the sales to the operating profit number you probably want to include the intercompany as well.
That's why we provided it in the footnote.
In terms of the quarter anything unusual I'd make -- I'm not sure I would qualify this as unusual or not but -- we've said this before this is not a new comment.
Fourth quarter is usually seasonally a high-cost quarter for us and the first quarter is usually seasonally a low-cost quarter for us.
And we certainly saw in that the fourth quarter of '10 and we saw that in the first quarter of this year.
So typically it's a pretty light quarter for cost.
We got R&amp;D programs that will ramp up.
But in terms of -- there were no redundancy costs that we called out.
There were no big unusual items that we called out.
The next question is coming from Henry Kirn.
It's UBS.
Could you talk about inventories at the dealer level? How much room is there to still grow there and how do you expect the wholesale and retail sales to compare as we go through the year? Yes on dealer inventory there is a usually -- and when I say usually you kind of have to temper that a little bit depending upon where you are in the cycle.
But usually the seasonal pattern is that dealers will build some inventory in the first quarter.
Their big selling seasons particularly in the northern hemisphere is spring and summer when contractors are out working there.
So generally they'll build some inventory in the first quarter.
Historically they might then use some inventory maybe in the use from inventory in the second quarter where they have bigger sales.
Now for the full year our view is that inventory will probably go off a little bit from where it's at now but nothing on the order of the quarterly increase that we saw in the first quarter.
On the retail sales numbers we started to pickup in the first quarter of last year.
In fact you'll see the Asian numbers percentage-wise look lighter than maybe North America.
And I think that probably surprises people in terms of the thinking that North America's weak and Asia's strong.
I think when you look at the retail numbers you kind of have to step back and look at when recovery started.
Recovery in Asia started earlier than it did in the U.S.
and Europe and so they're starting to lap now very good numbers.
And I think as we move forward in the kind of the impacts of the 2009 recession are those low low levels get behind it I think the retail comparisons will get tougher as we go forward.
Henry this is Ed.
The only thing I'd add is that if left to their own devices dealers would want to take that inventory level up.
But in a lot of cases we're allocating product and moving more of that inventory into the PVCs and then to the lane configurations and it's a real effort to make sure we have the right product in the right places very different than the way we managed the upturn last time around.
That's helpful.
Is it possible to talk a little bit about the supply chain outside of Japan where you maybe seeing some tightness? Yes this is Mike.
We've got a lot of factories around the world a lot of products.
And I'm sure if we went into any one of our factories the product manager could rattle off a dozen components that they would like more of.
But I think on balance our suppliers have just done a fantastic job of ramping up.
I mean if you look where we came from in the depth of let's say third and fourth quarter of 2009 production is significantly higher than it was then we tried to communicate as far forward as we can with our supply base.
And I think for the most part they've reacted.
So we don't have anything specific to call out.
It's tightened a lot of areas but our suppliers have done a great job.
The next question is coming from Robert McCarthy.
It's Robert W.
Baird.
One of the things that -- you were just talking about capacity.
One of the things that I've been concerned about is the time lag in being able to close the Bucyrus acquisition and the fact that they're sold out for at least this year and their hydraulic shovel business which is of course very important asset that you're acquiring.
And as you know they're landlocked in Germany.
So from their end capacity is just flat static right now.
Are you already in the process of trying to -- I mean is this part of what Texas is? Are you in the process of building capacity so that you'll be able to quickly add to their existing capacity once you take control of the business? Doug Oberhelman here Rob.
We are only going to comment on Bucyrus today about the closing that we still expect in mid-2011 but I will tell you the factory that you've referred to in Texas has nothing to do with the Mining business.
That's a construction excavator plant only -- call it 25 to 35-ton machines unrelated entirely to Bucyrus.
And that's just about as far as we'll go -- that is as far as we'll go today with Bucyrus.
Everybody's working hard to get it closed.
We expect in 2011 to get it done.
Okay.
And then my follow-up has to do with your expectations for dealer inventory growth.
I'm interested in both the $800 million in the quarter and your expectations for the full year.
Can you talk about where that will be concentrated by segment within the new segments? I'm guessing most of that would be at BCP Construction in other words? Yes.
I think that's -- I mean that's where most of it is.
There's not a lot of Mining inventory so that's a pretty easy one to say yes to.
I think geographically -- well I'll just start off the $800 million that were already up in the first quarter our expectation is that we'll probably not going to end the year a lot higher than that somewhat higher but not a lot higher than that.
So I wouldn't expect big changes from the end of the first quarter by the time we get to year end.
Now there might be some up and down during the year.
Again the second quarter is usually a big quarter for sales to users in terms of actual volumes until it's not unusual for dealers to take a little bit take inventory down a little bit in the second quarter.
But I don't think for the full year -- at least our view is it won't be a lot higher than what we ended in the first quarter.
And you were going to say something regionally Mike? Regionally all regions were up in the first quarter except Asia Pacific.
Asia Pacific actually declined just a touch and I think that reflects a point that Ed made earlier.
Dealers would like to take more inventory if they could.
If you take Asia for example our excavator production in China is -- will go in full out.
And I think if we could get more products at some things like excavators we can certainly put more in our Lane inventory and I think that dealers could -- even though we're trying to put as much as we can in Lane inventory to get it distributed well you could probably make a good case for some dealers needing a bit more.
The next question is coming from Ted Grace.
LLLP</strong> Susquehanna.
So I think speaking for myself and then probably for a lot of people trying to calibrate our expectations around the new reporting format but as it relates to the incremental margins for what historically was the Machines business and now I guess we'll call it the Construction Industries and Resource Industries one more quarter into the recovery it would be great to kind of get your updated sense for how you think the opportunity on incremental margin side is and kind of as the second part whether it's Doug or anybody else on the call could you just compare and contrast the opportunity that you see within Machines relative to Engines when you took over that business and made the dramatic improvements there? I tell you what I'll start with the first part of that.
When we came into 2011 if you go back to our original outlook we said we expected incremental margins in the neighborhood of 25% this year and for the full year.
And if you look at our outlook today we revised the sales number up and we revised the profit number up.
And I think the incremental margins embedded in that are a lot different that what we said before.
We did a little better than that in the first quarter.
And if you look at the year-over-year sales increase the first quarter of a year ago was still coming off of let's just call it recession lows and sales really started to improve through the last year.
So if you look at first quarter to first quarter it'll probably have the most significant year-over-year comparatively increase in volume.
And the bigger your volume increase in a lot of ways the easier it is to get a high incremental margin.
So I think it's not surprising that the first quarter is a bit better than what we were expecting for the year.
On balance I don't think our expectations for incremental margins for the year are significantly different than how we started out the year.
I'm not sure -- Doug Oberhelman here I got your back end of that question vis-a-vis Engines but what I will tell you is that we have the entire leadership team of the company and we communicate with employees constantly on this idea of incremental margins and profit pull through.
It's a big deal inside our company and it's a motivator to many.
The segmentation presentation that we provided this quarter is what our fleeters use internally as well.
That's the document we all are motivated by.
What you see is what we see and how we manage.
Now having said that Mike is exactly right.
The 25% incremental margin we want for the rest of the year in our outlook is what we expect to deliver and that's one of the better years in the last many in terms of year-over-year improvement which we're pretty happy with.
But it's something that is a key core metrics of ours internally.
The executive office that is all the Group Presidents and myself look at this continually and that's how we do our business planning and so on and will into the future.
Because the history of '06 '07 '08 is still pretty fresh and the success we had I think your point on the engine businesses is the one we modeled the machine business after and we're seeing that here in the last couple of quarters as well.
Certainly the first quarter is very rewarding to that.
LLLP</strong> Yes exactly.
What I was going to ask is when you think about the longer term opportunity not as much as 2011 if you were to look at the Engine segment between '02 and '09 sales growth is similar to your peer group and yet your margin expansion was 1 200 basis points pure average is 200.
And so if we try to apply that kind of construct to the opportunity within what was historically the Machines business I'm just curious to get a sense how do you think about the increased opportunity from here longer term so over 3 to 5 years? Sure and I'm not going to -- we don't really -- I'm not going to talk about that 5 years out but we certainly have talked about it internally in where we want to be and that is one of our metrics.
And as we've talked to all of you in New York at the exchange last year at 2015 the goals we laid out for that really get us to this kind of a profit pull through.
So yes I think you can -- I don't know what it is vis-a-vis the peer group but certainly in terms of where we want to be by the end of '15 that's a key piece of getting us there.
The next question is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Longbow Securities.
Can we go back and talk a little bit more about the profitability you gave us one quarter in comparison I hope you'll give us your stated quarters quickly for last year.
And Resources the one that's exact when you show a 28.8% margin I guess given the exact sales is 26%.
That doesn't seem to be like a normalized profitability to some and I think it's a question we're trying to get a sense of what the normalized profitability.
And when you put it in the context with the guidance that you gave us because what you effectively said for the rest of the year assuming that you're not being ultraconservative is that the sales number for the rest of the year doesn't change a lot.
But your quarterly profit report goes down 10% to 20% on average from this huge first quarter.
So I'm just trying to reconcile the 2 and it has to be at some point it suggests that the operating profitability would be lower in this segment versus what we saw in the first quarter.
So I'm trying to get an idea what more normalized numbers would be.
Okay a couple of things.
It is our intention to restate the quarters of last year and we'll do that as quickly as we can.
I would expect that it's likely that we'll have that done before we talk and disclose it before next quarter.
I think we'll be able to do that.
So that might give you at least some quarterly perspective from a year ago.
Resource Industries includes Mining which is shall we say more profitable than the total.
One thing you need to remember though when you're thinking about the numbers in total there's a line within our segments that has corporate costs and there are some costs in our business things like -- I'll give you some examples: our Corporate Treasury group our tax group part of our Human Resources group our legal group some of the pension costs that aren't related to service costs.
They are not included in the individual segments.
So you'll see those as a negative when we sum up the segments plus that to get to the total.
So if you were looking at Machinery for example before as we reported that we would've allocated all that to Machinery and Engines and now we're not.
So I think it probably will help you when we give you a little bit more historic data.
But again Resource Industries is the more profitable than average segment no doubt about it.
Now in terms of the first quarter versus the rest of the year I kind of touched on this.
The first quarter is usually a pretty light cost quarter.
Fourth quarter is pretty heavy.
First quarter is pretty light and we saw that.
Now in addition to that I think what we're going to see as we move through the year is probably a little bit more headwind on material costs.
And on the first quarter we didn't say much about it in the release because it was just slightly negative.
It was not a big deal in the first quarter.
But as we go through the year that will likely be more of a headwind as we go forward.
And things like R&amp;D costs for example I think that'll probably go up.
And then of course in the second quarter that's where we would expect to see the vast majority of the impacts from the disaster in Japan.
So that's having a little bit of a negative on the rest of the year particularly in the second quarter as well.
I guess what I'm driving at is when volume goes up a little bit from the first quarter and we're looking at a somewhat lower quarterly report can we get some calibration of where the decline is coming from in profitability? Is it in the segment stuff or is that cost the consolidated corporate cost numbers? Can you give us some idea of how to handle that for the rest of the year? Yes I think it would be in the segments.
Material cost would be in the segment.
The impact from Japan would be in the segments.
So yes it would be most likely in the segments.
Okay and a follow-up.
Can you give us some idea of how much capacity space you have left for increased volumes in your reporting? I mean are we pretty full out at this point in resources that you can't expect much change in volume from the first quarter and the rest would come from Construction? Can you give us a sense of where the volume changes that we're seeing pretty much this year can from? That's a little bit of a hard question to answer partly because some of the ramp-up issues that one would have particularly in the short-term aren't necessarily capacity driven.
I'll just give you an example.
If you look at big diesel engines we're definitely not at capacity.
We're off yet to do more but there's a fairly long supply-chain on some of the big key components and you can't change that production on a dime.
So for that we couldn't take up production rapidly within a month but that doesn't mean that we're at capacity.
For things like excavators and much of the large products products like bulldozers we're running pretty well flat out right now.
We're actually doing better.
I mean we've been able to get out more I think in both of those kind of product areas than we did last year.
We got more investment going in place to try and get that up.
So I don't know how to quantify it because you'd have to look at it product by product and then figure out what that meant for the supply chain to get it back to the number this year.
The next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
It's Goldman Sachs.
Mike the high end of your sales guidance implies low production increases from your seasonally weakest sales quarter.
Is that a contingency for Japan and broader supply-chain tightness? And I'm wondering if you can touch on where your supply on-time deliveries were in the quarter.
Yes I think it does reflect again for a lot of products we are producing all we can today again the big product lot of the big product underground mining trucks and excavators which is our priority product.
It also reflects fairly long lead times for some of the other products and it also reflects Japan.
And we expect the second quarter to be negative there.
And a lot of that is in products that we effectively don't have capacity to make up later on in the year again like excavators for example.
So we do have increases built into the rest of the year in our sales outlook at the midpoint end or at the top end but they are limited somewhat by our ability to produce.
And I mentioned this in my lead in.
Our sales forecast if it weren't so much capacity constrained from a demand standpoint could be higher.
And it looks like your inventories were up nicely in the quarter.
Can you give us an update on your Lane strategy fill rates and what are your updated targets for this year? Yes Jerry this is Ed.
If you look at Lane performance in the first quarter like 70% of the volume went out within 10 days and so we're seeing good performance in that area.
As I said earlier dealers would take more inventory but we continue to turn it into Lane to make sure we have the right product in the right place.
In fact we actually increased Lane inventory during the quarter.
As we continue to this commitment that we made and this ramp-up of making sure we have the right product in the right place.
There's more build out of the PDCs to come in the second quarter and we've got products diverted into the lanes to make sure we have good product visibility and we can maximize those end user sales.
And I think you're seeing the benefits of that with the rolling 3-month data we've been providing on end-user sales.
I think the Lane strategy is moving ahead.
There's strong demand puts that under pressure but we remain committed to it.
It's one of the things that's going to help us manage this upturn far better than we did the last one.
And Ed just to clarify what proportion of your Lane 1 target products are you stocking within that 10 day period? Is that that 70% number or are we talking about out of the product that you saw stock 70% is within 10 days? That would be with -- the 70% would be across the spectrum of our product lines versus that target.
The next question comes from David Raso.
ISI.
A quick question on the rest of the year implied guidance.
Essentially it looks like your implying incremental margins of only 10% year-over-year for the rest of the year.
Can you give us a little more granularity on what -- I mean what sort of -- roughly some of the cost issues but it just seems like a very low incremental margin for the rest of the year can you...
Yes I won't.
I mean I'm not going to go through the math but I don't think it's quite that low.
And remember you need to deal with EMD in whatever calculations you're doing because that's adding to sales at least for the second and third quarter without adding much to the profit.
And then remember we've got Cat Japan in the second quarter.
But I think there's no doubt at least in my mind that we have the most significant volume increase in the first quarter.
And just on a quarterly basis that gives you the most opportunity to I think to show really good incremental margins.
In quarters where there's less volume increase I think it's tougher.
But I think that 10% number's pretty -- it's too low.
I mean we're looking for about 25% for the year.
We had 28% to 29% in the first quarter.
I definitely appreciate that but the math is implying equipment company EBITs around $5.9 billion for the year.
Yes we don't -- we're not.
I mean we don't -- we do profit per share but I don't think that math works.
Okay.
We'll talk offline.
And then on the cash flow I saw something I don't think I've ever seen Cat do.
On the equipment company first quarter working capital actually a source of fund.
Now that hasn't happened since '98.
And '98 was even an anomaly because that's when you were first selling receivables in the equipment company over Cat Financial.
So maybe it's never happened for at least my data.
Obviously very impressive.
Can you give us some thoughts on how you're viewing cash flow for the year on equipment comp -- again it's a unique start to the year to have working capital as a source of fund.
Dave I'm going to let Ed answer that.
But you're seeing the increasing number of numbers before in front of your eyes and this is one of them.
And we like that part and that's where we're headed as we talked to all of you last year that we're going to be in territory here the next couple of years where we've never been before and we're starting to see the results.
Yes and David it ties into a number of things.
One when we rolled out the strategy we've talked a lot about the balance and the focus on the P&amp;L and also on cash flow and moving it to the top-tier metric.
And as we really driven this and cascaded it down into the organization I'd say number one we're getting good traction on that.
Secondly we talked about our desire to minimize the need for equity related to Bucyrus and we've got the organization clearly focused on what it has -- what we collectively have to do as a group to make that happen.
And in fact if you look at that you'll measure it from a debt cap perspective.
We finished the first quarter with the strongest balance sheet we've had in more than 20 years.
So I think you're seeing the traction come from the deployment of strategy the focus on cash flow and really driving it down through the organization.
It came through with good numbers in the first quarter.
And if you think about the opportunities that we have ahead of us in terms of the industries we serve the capacity increases we've talked about we've got the organization clearly understanding that generating strong cash flow is where we're going to find that growth going forward.
And I know obviously there's a lot of positive to this trend but that was probably the most impressive.
Are you willing to at least give us some kind of range and how you're thinking about operating cash flow for the year? David we've historically not given guidance on that.
What I would say is that based on what we clearly articulated relative to the top tier metrics we rolled out the strategy the balance of our focus zero equity in terms of the target if you would on Bucyrus we're going be all over cash flow.
I guess I would -- yes I might just chime in here a little bit that in one metric that we watch and that's working capital of sales we're benchmarking the best in the capital goods industries.
And that's our target here over time and granted it's going to take maybe to 2015 to get there but we're seeing a down payment on that.
So I would just generally think about that in the best in capital goods as where we intend to be no later than 2015.
The next question is coming from Ann Duignan.
JPMorgan.
I'd like to just follow up on David's question and ask it a little bit differently.
Doug would you be disappointed in the businesses if they did not deliver 25% incrementals in each quarter going forward other than maybe Construction next quarter because of Japan? Well I'm really focused on 2012 and '15.
I would expect the Group Presidents in charge in those businesses in this case Rich Lavin and Steve Wunning to use those and they are as our top-tier metrics and that's a question that they would have for their teams.
I know they're concentrating highly on it but in terms of quarter-to-quarter stuff there's so much so many variables and change.
I'm really trying to get us to '12 and '15 in a big way and they handle the day-to-day quarterlies and everything in their business Ann.
That's the way I look at it.
Okay that's good color.
I appreciate that.
And then a separate kind of question it's kind of a tough question to ask but Japan is a headwind right now.
At some point I think we would all anticipate that that could turn and could become a tailwind.
The way we look at it is we would likely see demand for power generation for the Engine business to pick up first and then later perhaps much later demand for rebuilding equipment may pick up.
Is that the right way to think about it and how do you guys think about it internally? I'll comment here and you're right this is a tough one to talk about.
This will profoundly change the country of Japan for decades.
It will profoundly change the way that industry is viewed inside Japan for a long time as well.
And well there will be rebutted opportunities down the road and certainly we've seen power as we would typically do after a disaster of this kind lead the way.
It's hard for us to really talk about that.
We're still making sure our supply chain is right.
We were so fortunate that our own Japanese employees and facilities were not hurt but having said that everyone of our Japanese families have either a relative friend or something that has been touched very deeply with this.
So we're not pushing it too hard.
I'm going to shy away from that answer and accept that generally and in all of the disasters that's the kind of the flow in which we've seen recoveries.
The next question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Credit Suisse.
2 questions Mike.
I'm going to try the guidance one more time.
Your first quarter you came in at $1.84.
Q1 seasonally a weaker quarter which implies at the midpoint.
We're only going to do on average about $1.55 a quarter.
I get we had high volumes.
Japan's only $0.10.
Your R&amp;D was up 30% in the quarter.
You're seeing 20% for the year.
I understand that dollars get bigger but is material cost that material or is it we're only in the first quarter so why set the bar high? And then the second question just broader commentary on Tier 4.
Tier 3 was a big issue for Caterpillar last cycle.
I'm just wondering how that's going relative to expectations.
Yes you're right.
Normally season -- first quarter is a pretty seasonally low quarter for our sales.
I'd think that that trend is probably a little bit muted in situations where you're constrained on production.
So I think again if there weren't any production constraint there weren't any capacity issues I think our sales number as we said would have been higher and you might have seen more of a seasonal pattern.
But I think probably because of production constraints on excavators in large products our expectation is the seasonal variation won't be quite so much.
And it is early in the year there's a lot you don't know and we do expect that material cost will go up somewhat from here.
We expect -- you're right year-over-year R&amp;D was up.
But if you look at it sequentially as we go throughout the year it's going to go up from the first quarter as it did last year.
And Jamie I'll cover Tier 4.
I'd say at this point in time it's in the early innings but I'd say we're cautiously optimistic.
If you think back to when we first got into it a lot of people were talking about Tier 4 being a sacrifice on fuel economy.
I think almost across the board our Tier 4 machines are actually going to act -- offer improved fuel economy.
There was a lot of fear about the need for operator intervention.
We've almost completely removed that from the equation so any customer feedback from that has been positive.
I think the team's done a good job of using technology in terms of getting immediate feedback back in terms of any issues in the product development cycle and we've leveraged our supply base in a number of areas across the platforms of our machines.
So I'd say early days but much more confident in terms of where we're at in Tier 4 versus where we're at with Tier 3.
The last question is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
It's Morgan Stanley.
My question is from the outside the margins obviously look extraordinary this quarter and really impressive.
I wanted to ask from the inside when you look at your internal metrics whether that be rework quality or the outlook quality all the things you talked about in '09 whether it feels just as good better or whether you're seeing some of the signs of strain that you saw at last peak in '07 '08? Yes I'll be happy to take that one Rob.
It's Doug Oberhelman here.
Generally across the board on internal metrics that we use those that you mentioned and others but the biggest one is the external metrics and that's the incremental profit pull through which in my mind is the culmination of all those things that have to happen internally.
We are seeing vast improvements from '06 '07 '08 and '09.
Now having said that we are running -- more and more of our plants had capacity.
As we go up that chain we're working through those.
We have a far different and I'm going to say far better global purchasing and supply chain management team around the globe that learned from the prior experience and put in processes that have changed.
So without question our CPS metrics are better.
Every single metric that we would use you would see on our -- inside our factories as you go through that we put up on our metric boards and they were say 3 4 5 years ago.
We're not where we want to be.
Our goals are still down the road for us from where we want to be but we're getting there.
And I think I've often said that it's probably going to be late '11 '12 before we really see a lot of those internal metrics get to the goals that we wanted as we continue to do investments to make the changes that we have to to get them where we want to be.
So there's some of that improvement in front of us but there's no question we are moving up the scale operationally and internally.
And I'm very very pleased with our team on that.
Okay.
With that I'd like to thank you all for joining us on the call today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Earnings and Bucyrus Acquisition Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you.
And good morning everyone and welcome to Caterpillar's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; our Group President and CFO Ed Rapp here on the call today.
And because we'll be discussing the Bucyrus acquisition I'm also pleased to have Steve Wunning with us today.
Steve is our Group President that heads the Resource Industries business.
The call today is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we'll be posting it in the Investor section of our caterpillar.com website.
It'll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
Now this morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A which Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22 2011 and it's also on our forward-looking statements language contained in today's release.
Now this morning's call format will be a little different than we've done in the past.
I'll cover our second quarter results and the new outlook for 2011 then I'll turn it over to Ed Rapp and Steve Wunning to take you through the highlights of the Bucyrus acquisition that we closed on July 8.
All of that should take about 30 minutes and then leave us about an hour for your questions.
Now if you haven't done so already you should download the Bucyrus presentation from the Investor area of the cat.com website.
When you go to the Investor section of cat.com you'll see a menu on the left-hand side of the screen and the material that we're going to use today is in the Events &amp; Presentations area.
Okay.
This morning we were pleased to report financial results for the second quarter that were significantly better than last year.
Sales and revenues were $14.2 billion and that's the highest of any quarter in history and up 37% from the second quarter 2010.
Sales and revenues were up in every geographic region.
North America was up 36%; Latin America 34%; Europe Africa/Middle East 51%; and Asia/Pacific was up 41%.
Now to provide a consistent comparison with our 2010 results and our previous outlook we're reporting our results this year with and without the impacts related to the Bucyrus and we're starting that this quarter.
There's a non-GAAP reconciliation in today's earnings release and if you haven't seen the release yet you can also find that on the cat.com website.
Now excluding Bucyrus-related items that were in our second quarter profit was $1.72 a share and that's $0.63 or about 58% higher than the second quarter of 2010.
While we didn't close Bucyrus until after the end of the second quarter we did have $204 million in acquisition costs related to Bucyrus in the quarter.
The most significant Bucyrus-related items were down on our other income and expense line below operating profit.
And the largest item was the loss of $124 million in the quarter on interest rate swap contracts that we put in place in early -- or late 2010 and early 2011.
At the time we put the contracts in place interest rates were trending up.
And considering the amount of debt that we needed to issue to complete the acquisition we put the swap contracts in place to mitigate the potential for even higher rates.
However between then and the time we issued the debt rates in fact did not go up.
They went down.
And while that's a very good thing and we were able to issue debt at historically low rates it did result in losses on the swaps.
However over the life of the debt the lower rates will be much more of a benefit than the loss we had on the swaps.
Now in addition to the loss on the swaps on that other income and expense line in the second quarter we had $38 million of expense related to the bridge financing facility that we put in place.
In our operating cost there was expense related to the acquisition and integration planning and we incurred about $11 million of interest expense in the quarter on that debt that we issued back in late May.
So in total Bucyrus-related costs in the quarter were $204 million or about $0.20 a share.
As a result of that our total profit in the quarter including those Bucyrus impacts was $1.52 a share.
Just for your reference in today's release we have a Q&amp;A in the back.
And Q&amp;A #2 on Page 17 does a pretty good job of laying out the Bucyrus-related impacts in the quarter.
Now related to the quarter I should mention 3 other items that you may want to consider as you review our results and they're all covered in today's earnings release.
On the positive side we had favorable discrete tax adjustments of $72 million.
On the negative side currency impacts were negative to operating profit $102 million versus the second quarter of 2010.
And the third item is short-term incentive compensation.
I'm going to talk about the outlook in a minute but we raised it and that had the impact of adding $85 million more incentive compensation in the second quarter than we had in the first quarter and incentive comp was $95 million higher in the second quarter than it was in the second quarter of 2010.
As you do your analysis of our second quarter results I'm sure many of you will do the math and calculate the incremental operating margin.
To help you out with that we've also included a Q&amp;A.
It's #12 on Page 20 of today's release.
Now when you calculate incremental margin your purpose is likely to get another data point on operating performance.
We think it makes the analysis more reasonable if you pull out the impact of acquisitions to make it apples-to-apples.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions our consolidated incremental operating profit was 18% in the quarter.
That's down from the first quarter but it's consistent with the outlook we discussed during our conference call at the end of the first quarter.
We said then that the first quarter was seasonally light for costs that price realization was moderate and R&amp;D costs were expected to go up.
In addition we expected that the negative impact we were anticipating as a result of the disaster in Japan would largely be in the second quarter.
Now when you look at the incremental margins there's another important point you should consider and that's the impact of currency.
A weaker dollar compared with the second quarter of 2010 meant that our sales actually benefited $351 million in the quarter.
However the impact on cost was more.
It was $453 million and that resulted in a negative impact of $102 million on operating profit.
If you were to adjust for the currency impact the incremental operating profit pull-through was 24% in the quarter.
In this morning's release we also updated the outlook for 2011.
And we are reporting it also with and without the impact of Bucyrus and we're doing that to provide a more consistent comparison with our previous outlook.
So excluding the impacts of Bucyrus we increased the outlook today.
For sales and revenues we took it up to $54 billion to $ 55 billion -- I'm sorry $54 billion to $56 billion in sales and profit of $6.75 to $7.25 a share.
That's an increase at the top the bottom and the midpoint of $2 billion in sales and revenues and $0.50 a share in profit.
Our previous outlook as a reminder was the sales range -- the sales revenues range of $52 billion to $54 billion and a profit range of $6.25 to $6.75 a share.
Now because we've completed the Bucyrus acquisition we're also providing a new company outlook for 2011 that includes Bucyrus and this is the first outlook that we've had where we've included Bucyrus.
The expected impact of Bucyrus includes the vast majority of the upfront integration and deal-related costs that we expect on the deal but only a half year of actual operating results from Bucyrus.
In total we expect the 2011 impact of the acquisition will be positive to sales about $2 billion but negative to profit per share $0.50.
Including Bucyrus then the sales and revenues outlook is $56 billion to $58 billion and the profit outlook is $6.25 to $6.75 a share.
Now the factors driving that negative impact this year related to Bucyrus include about $700 million of upfront and deal-related integration costs in 3 major areas.
The first we've already talked about and that's the loss on the interest rate swaps.
And for the year that's about $150 million.
Second we're expecting about $250 million of additional cost this year related to the Bucyrus inventory step-up.
And third we expect another $300 million of costs related to the acquisition and integration expenses like severance costs for Bucyrus executives cost for the bridge financing legal cost advisory fees and a host of other integration-related activities.
Now when we announced the deal last November we said that we expected about $0.50 per share of those upfront costs in the first year and the $700 million that I reviewed is a bit higher than that for 2 main reasons.
First we didn't expect the interest rate swap losses.
And second the estimate of the inventory step-up is a little bit higher than we expected back in November.
Now in addition to the $700 million of upfront costs this year on our outlook it includes about $80 million of additional interest expense on that debt that we issued back at the end of May.
Now partially offsetting those items we expect operating profit from Bucyrus net of about $150 million of incremental intangible amortization to be about $300 million positive during the second half of 2011.
I think we have a pretty good summary of the impacts of Bucyrus on 2011 results on Page 15 of today's release in the Outlook section.
One more point I think it's good to make about the Bucyrus impact.
And that is of that negative $0.15 or $0.50 per share this year about half of it is behind us in the first half.
It's actually in our first half results.
The other half will be in the third and fourth quarter.
Now I'll just make a couple of quick more points and then I'll turn it over to Ed to start the discussion on the Bucyrus acquisition and the first of those 2 points is the disaster in Japan.
And I'd like to thank our employees our supply base and our dealers for the exceptional work that they've done.
The recovery there has been faster and the net impact less than we anticipated.
In the second quarter sales were negatively impacted about $200 million and operating profit was negatively impacted about $60 million.
That's better than we expected.
Our previous estimate was a negative impact of about $300 million for the year and a negative impact of about $100 million to operating profit for the year most of which we expected in the second quarter.
In fact in Japan production is now back to or above pre-disaster levels and there's a good chance that we'll recover much of the sales shortfall later in the second half.
Final point this morning is on cash flow and it's a great story to tell.
Our Machinery and Power Systems operating cash flow for the first half of the year was $4.1 billion and that's a 63% improvement from the first half of 2010.
And of that $4.1 billion about $2.5 billion was in the second quarter.
And it's that kind of performance in generating cash that helped us fund the Bucyrus acquisition without the need to issue new equity.
Okay.
That's the quarter and the outlook and with that I'm going to pass it over to Ed to start the discussion on Bucyrus.
Okay Mike.
Hey thanks.
And like he said we'll walk you through the presentation and Mike referenced that was out on Investor Relations section of our website.
And like he said before we get into the Q&amp;A Steven Wunning and I just kind of want to walk through kind of where we're at with Bucyrus.
If you go to Page 2 just as a reminder many of the comments that we will make will involve forward-looking statements as outlined Mike in his opening comments.
Moving to Page 3.
The picture of the -- in terms of the products on November 15 2010 when we first unveiled this photo we thought it really captured the essence of the strategic alignment between these 2 great companies.
We were excited then.
We're even more excited now.
If you move to the next page Page 4.
In terms of the update what we're going to do is take you through a few items.
Number one the fundamental reasons to acquire Bucyrus absolutely remain.
Mining is a great industry that fits our strategy.
It fits our business model.
We expect robust long-term growth in Mining.
In fact if we look at CapEx projections by our large mining companies they continue to gain strength.
Bucyrus products are highly complementary and I think that was demonstrated by the global regulatory approval that we received.
We've also been very focused on the -- getting ready for this acquisition and we have made key decisions.
And we'll walk through organization branding dealer participation as well as funding to give you an update on where we stand.
We are absolutely ready for the integration have had a very well laid out plan that we'll take you through.
And then lastly we'll take you through the numbers kind of the financial projections and how it looks going forward.
So to talk about the strategic fit and some of the key decisions that we've already made let me turn it over to Steven Wunning the Group President for Resource Industries.
Steve? Thanks Ed and good morning to everybody.
Let's start with Page 5.
And really the Mining customers fit our business model exceptionally well.
What these customers want they want low owning and operating cost high uptime and great productivity and that's what we do very well.
We design and build great machines and engines and through our dealers we provide industry-leading product support.
And through all of that that results in low operating cost less downtime and high productivity.
And because of the value our products and services provide we're able to sell more machines and engines which results in selling more parts.
And it's really a virtuous cycle.
And just to point on the parts sales just to put that in perspective a D10 consumes 3x its initial price in parts over its life and many of the Bucyrus products consumes a lot of parts just like that D10.
So the mining industry and the Mining customers really fit the Cat business model probably better than anything else.
If you go to Page 6 this acquisition actually started with our enterprise strategy in the spring of 2010.
And I know most of you have seen the pyramids.
And as Ed mentioned the -- what was really -- in support of that strategy we really looked at the businesses that we're in in terms of how attractive the industry is and the strategic fit to Caterpillar's capabilities.
And I really can't think of a more attractive industry than mining not for the next -- just for the next 2 or 3 years but really for the next 20 to 30 years.
And as I've already mentioned mining is a great strategic fit with our capabilities.
And if you look at the big 8 imperatives the Bucyrus acquisition impacts 3 of the big 8.
First and foremost it allows us to expand our leadership in mining and quarry and aggregates.
It also helps us win in China as well grow in India ASEAN and the CIS.
It really allows us to execute the business model as I mentioned and accelerate aftermarket parts and service growth.
Because of the -- how well this fits into our overall strategy we have invested $8.8 billion in Bucyrus and we're also investing several billion dollars more to significantly expand our factories and design better Mining products.
If you go to Page 7 you can see a kind of the array of Bucyrus products.
And there's very little overlap with the existing Cat product line except for trucks.
And even here the trucks are very different.
We provide mechanical-drive trucks.
Bucyrus has electric-drive trucks.
Now we have both.
Bucyrus allows Cat to enter into attractive underground coal mining industry in a very big way.
We now have products such as shears armored-face conveyors roof supports continuous miners and belt systems.
Plus this gives us a strong foothold in China and India.
Both are very important mining markets.
In fact this morning I just got back from India.
And yesterday I was with the President of one of the largest India coal mines and he's very bullish on coal for many years.
They're making capital investments that are very very large and a lot those investments would go to Caterpillar type of equipment.
And he is very delighted with our Bucyrus acquisition.
This is true with just about every mining company in the world.
And if you go to Slide 8 we were a large mining equipment supplier with a neural product line.
We basically offered mining trucks support equipment and trucks and loaders for hard rock mining.
But now if you go to Slide 9 we have the broadest product line in the industry and this is what our customers have been asking us to do for many years.
What they asked us to do is to provide a one-stop shop for equipment and services.
What they want are -- is a large strategic supplier with a broad product line and a wide array of services.
They want strong viable business partners to help them be successful.
And now with the Bucyrus acquisition no one comes as close as we do to meeting what our customers have been asking for.
As you go to the next slide there were a number of key decisions that we had to make and there were 5 driving forces behind these key decisions.
The driving forces.
We needed one face to the customer.
We want to have one team one distribution model one brand and the fifth driving force was speed of execution.
And let me walk you through these 4 key decisions we made and the rationale behind them.
As far as the Mining organization on July 11 we added 10 000 new employees.
We wanted to tell every employee as quickly as possible what their job is who is their boss where will they work and how much they will get paid some very basic things.
This will largely be accomplished by August 10.
So far the split of the key leaders for these leadership positions has been about 50% Cat and 50% Bucyrus.
Our approach there was to pick the best of the best and that really drove the selection process.
We're implementing a functional organization.
And we have Dave Bozeman who will be leading the global manufacturing operations for the Mining business.
There's about 18 000 employees in our manufacturing operation reporting to Dave.
Dave has some of the largest facilities around the world and many of you have been through Aurora and our East Peoria and our Decatur facilities and now you can add South Milwaukee and many many more facilities.
But he's got the largest facilities and he's got all the facilities that support our Mining business.
We've got Chris Curfman.
He's got the global sales and marketing for the entire Mining business and he's got the coverage worldwide for all Mining Products.
We've also got Luis de Leon.
He's the former Bucyrus Chief Operating Officer.
Luis leads all product development and almost all the engineers report to Luis in the Mining business.
Now it's not just these 3 officers.
25 of Caterpillar's 30 vice presidents will be deeply and directly involved in the Bucyrus acquisition.
Let's talk about branding on Slide 12.
Since November 2011 we've been studying branding very carefully.
The Bucyrus name is very very strong.
It really conveyed a great legacy and heritage.
And the Bucyrus brand it means a lot to many many employees.
We didn't make this decision lightly.
We talked to customers around the world.
We talked to our dealers.
We talked to Caterpillar employees and we talked to Bucyrus employees and we also talked to branding experts.
It was virtually unanimous.
Everybody told us "Go with one brand and that brand should be Caterpillar." Again it gets back to one team one face to the customer.
And there is one exception.
It's a temporary exception.
That's the Unit Rig truck or the Bucyrus truck and we're going to use the Unit Rig truck name brand for the time being as we begin to integrate the Caterpillar truck line with the Bucyrus truck line.
But that would be the only exception and that's a temporary one.
Let's go to Slide 13 which talks about our dealers.
Bucyrus really is a manufacturing and a distribution company for most products and they really deploy a factory-direct model.
And what we wanted to do is that we wanted to keep what we do best which is design and manufacture great engines and machines.
And what we wanted to do what we want our dealers to do is what they do best.
And that is sell and support these engines and machines for their entire life.
So we'll be selling the distribution to -- business to our dealers.
They are very excited about the opportunity and this is what they have been asking for for many years.
They wanted a much broader product line for the Mining business.
We just started discussions with our dealers but our dealers are very happy and are excited about the opportunity.
And they are willing to reimburse Caterpillar for what we paid to buy the Bucyrus distribution business.
Collectively we expect that value to be substantial.
Now we have over 180 dealers but less than 50 make up most of the Mining business.
And what we want to do is that we want to reach agreement with our dealers very very quickly and we'll close some of the deals with our dealers by the end of this year and the rest by the end of 2012.
Now I'm going to turn it over to Ed.
He's going to talk about the funding.
Thanks Steve.
On the funding most of you are up to speed in terms of how we've done this the ability to avoid the equity issuance but thought we'd just kind of a lay out a comparison from November 2010 when we announced this to what we actually did.
In terms of the transaction you're well aware 100% of the outstanding common stock at $0.92 a share and then the total price ended up at $8.8 billion which included the assumption of the net debt.
If you look at the chart and you compare the November 20 estimate to what we actually did I think there's 2 keys.
Number one earlier Mike went through the strong cash flow results we've been able to deliver.
And the strength of our balance sheet it puts us in an exceptionally good position which allowed us to complete the transaction with 0 equity.
So you can see on the equity line no equity issued.
And of course that avoids the dilution which is good for our stockholders.
But the second key one though is the strong cash flow combined with the plan that Steve just outlined about selling distribution to our dealers allowed us to move more of the debt ladder to the short term thus lowering the interest expense.
In fact the weighted average cost of the debt including the negative impact of the swaps Mike talked about is 2.65%.
And so if you think about it an incredibly attractive industry a company that really does match with our strengths funded at cost levels we've just never seen before.
So we're very pleased with the way this has been funded.
We took a little bit of an upfront hit in terms of the swaps but we'll benefit from that over the long term based on the low cost of funding.
As we said when we announced the transaction we see great opportunities for the synergies.
We've spent a lot of time with the integration planning.
Steve why don't you talk about where we're at with integration? Okay.
Well back in November when we signed the agreement we appointed Steve Fisher to lead the effort.
Steve is one of the company's best Vice Presidents.
Then we dedicated a team of about 100 employees both from Cat and Bucyrus and these are some of the very best managers in both of our companies.
We have an excellent plan and we're going to hit the ground running.
Several thousand employees will be directly and deeply involved to deliver the synergy benefits.
We have an awful lot to do.
We have to complete and migrate the branding.
We have to integrate and bring on our dealers.
We have to bring on our suppliers.
We have to bring all of our employees together adding the 10 000 employees.
There's a lot of work in engineering IT manufacturing product support logistics but we have a great plan and now we're executing it.
We are becoming more confident we can deliver and exceed the long-term benefits that we expected initially back in November.
This is going to be a big winner for Caterpillar.
So Ed why don't you go through the numbers? Yes.
If you go to slide -- Page 16 on the synergy capture similar to our original discussion with you we talked about the synergy that's coming across the wide range of areas and we kind of outlined 4 major buckets.
Number one the sales and support capability of Cat dealers which you've now heard are fully aligned in terms of the strategy higher sales and a great opportunity for more aftermarket.
The second key area is the use of Cat engines and components in Bucyrus products.
And we talked upfront about the time it was going to take to engineer that into the Bucyrus product line but we continue to see great opportunities.
We know there are great cost synergies in the areas of purchasing engineering and other areas.
And in fact we're already off and running with it.
I mean just some of the basics such as rolling them into our airline discount agreements will yield more than a 20% improvement in our cost savings.
Rolling them into our express shipping programs yields 20% to 30% improvements.
Steel plate we're seeing 10% to 20% improvements and we are off and running in terms of going after those cost synergies.
And then lastly the opportunities that come with Cat Reman.
So in terms of the expected synergy benefits and the cost to deliver you can see the layout between the 2011 partial year kind of a 2012 full year and 2015 being defined here as a mature year.
And you can see the net synergy impact in 2011 of about $25 million ranging between $50 million to $100 million in 2012.
And then we're talking about 2015 being over $500 million and that's up from $400 million that we talked about when we originally announced the deal.
As we've gotten into this we just see greater opportunities.
Now on the box it does characterize one key point.
This does not include the impact related to migrating the Bucyrus sales and support businesses to dealers.
So all the numbers we're talking about today are the complete business and of course those will be adjusted as we transact or sell a portion of the business to the dealers.
And we'll provide clarity on that when those transactions take place.
So if you kind of weave the cost and the synergies into the financials and go to Page 17 this kind of gives you the expected financial impact.
And once again we're looking at a partial year 2011 full year 2012 and a mature year of 2015.
And you can see the Bucyrus standalone operating profit the synergy benefits we're projecting net of the cost to deliver that and the incremental intangible amortization and depreciation.
And then in the first or the partial year there you see the impact of the inventory step-up and the interest rate swaps.
And then in the early days we'll also see the deal-related integration cost.
And so the partial year 2011 a negative $400 million.
If you take that plus the interest cost that Mike talked about that gets you to the negative $0.50 that we talked about earlier.
And then for the full year of 2012 we're looking at that to be a positive $500 million.
And in a mature year we're looking at a run rate of about a positive $1.25 billion.
And so a little more cost upfront but a much more positive view of what this is going to yield over the long haul.
And once again this doesn't include the impact of our transacting the business with the dealers.
So if you go to Page 18 what's changed? I'd say on the negative side a little bit higher upfront cost being the interest rate swaps and the higher inventory step-up.
We expected about $700 million in upfront cost in 2011 including the interest rate swaps and the inventory step-up and the other integrated-related deal cost.
And on the positive side we originally said we would fund with up to $2 billion in equity.
And as I went through a great focus across the company on cash flow and it's helped us to avoid the new equity and the dilution associated with that which would have been about 3%.
Much lower cost of debt to fund the acquisition very favorable interest rates very favorable timing in terms of the debt ladder and that will more than offset the swap losses over the term of the debt.
I'd say Mining in general has continued to improve and that makes the timing of the acquisition and the long-term outlook of our Mining business I'd say even more positive.
And as we get into it we just have more confidence in the synergy numbers and we've raised that mature year estimate to over $500 million from what we have previously said of over $400 million.
So all in all we feel really good about where we're at.
So if you go to Page 19 for the summary.
Great acquisition with the complementary product fit.
Yes we got a lot of work to do but there's really been some good integration planning that's gone into place.
We see very good opportunities for synergies.
And as we talked about upfront it will require some investments to get to some of those.
It will take time to integrate including in the dealer transition.
But I think you've seen in the decisions that we've taken upfront that we've given this a lot of thought and we're going to hit the ground running much more favorable funding cost than expected last November.
And including the incremental interest expense we expected it to be about $0.50 per share negative to 2011 profit.
It'll be a profit contributor after 2011 and then add something in the dollar per share range by 2015.
As was the case on November 15 we thought a picture says a thousand words.
And if you flip to Page 20 I think the next slide says it all.
It felt like a good move back then.
It feels like even better news now.
So Mike I think we're ready for Q&amp;A.
I -- Holly I think with that we're ready to open up the floor for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question of the day is coming from Ann Duignan.
Ann Duignan JPMorgan.
There's so many questions.
I don't know where to begin but let me ask my questions around the Bucyrus deal.
Can you give us some indication on the synergies the mature year synergies? Could you break those down into buckets at least rough buckets revenues COGS versus SG&amp;A? Yes I would say -- and it's very similar to what we talked about in the very beginning.
I think the biggest buckets that we have are generating more service and aftermarket sales and margin capturing more of that.
Our dealers do a fantastic job of that and then driving more sales of the Bucyrus product through the dealers.
Two other big categories -- I'm just naming all the big categories -- are putting the Cat components.
I mean our cost of producing an engine for example is quite a bit less than the cost that Bucyrus would be paying.
That plus the purchasing savings are really the 4 biggest buckets.
And order of magnitude Mike could you -- is it 60-20-20-20? Or...
All of them are important.
All of those are important.
We're going to try to avoid I think doing a blow-by-blow for each one.
I would say they're all -- I don't want to say necessarily equally important but they're all of a pretty big magnitude.
Okay.
And on the financing you talked about the lower cost of financing.
Can you talk about interest expense as we go through again towards mature years.
You're generating a lot of free cash flow.
How should we think about free cash flow over the next few years? And what -- how should we think about capital allocation? Will debt repayment be the highest priority now for the next couple of years? If you could help us just think about cash generation and uses of cash as we get towards mature years.
Yes Anne this is Ed.
And as we kind of took you through in terms of the debt ladder you saw we moved more to the shorter end of the curve and that was driven by 2 factors: one projected strong cash flows from the existing business.
The other one is we're producing strategic decisions to sell the distribution assets.
That's going to have a cash flow generation capability and we want to have some debt maturing at that point in time to be able to pay it down.
In terms of our capital allocation if you would strategy moving forward I think it's going to be very consistent with what we outlined when we laid the strategy out there.
We think there is tremendous growth opportunities that exist out there.
I mean today we're talking about an acquisition but we've also outlined the very strong organic growth opportunities up to $3 billion in CapEx.
This year we see more opportunities to invest moving forward.
We're bullish on the long haul.
And I think you'll see from a capital allocation us continuing down that path funding those growth opportunities maintaining our obligations in terms of our pension plans the moderate increase in the dividend we've talked about in the Las Vegas meeting at CONEXPO and then truly as a residual share repurchase but much more skewed towards the growth side.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Yes.
Ann Doug Oberhelman here and I just want to comment.
Kind of at a top level our thinking through 2015 which really hasn't changed from what we started on back in New York in 2008 2009.
But if you look at our forecast and the goals we have for 2015 the cash generation here should be -- a good word is probably phenomenal certainly strong.
And the growth opportunities we have that we see around the world that we described to you are really unchanged as we look at the long term.
Certainly the mining investment that we made and will continue to make on capacity to take advantage of that will be huge.
But we don't intend at all to vary very far from reinvesting in the business.
The way that we structured the debt for the Bucyrus gets us some early drawdowns or pay-downs on debt.
So we get our debt-to-cap ratio a lot stronger than it is today but we're still even today after the debt issuance we had in pretty good shape compared to where we want to be and certainly compared to where we were in 2009.
So strengthening the balance sheet is going to happen in the next couple of years just I think naturally but the growth and the use of cash through the next 5 years will be right back into the business.
And of course some of our announcements you've seen where we're going with that.
We'll continue to talk about that but I don't view the world has changed very much.
In fact it's probably improved since our Analyst Meeting in New York it certainly in Las Vegas.
So we're pretty optimistic very optimistic to achieve our 2015 goals that we talked about.
Okay.
And one final one while I have you on the line there.
I'm not quite sure how I understand how Bucy helps you win in China.
I mean Bucy -- one of the strategic kind of weaknesses in Bucy's business plan was it didn't really have a China strategy.
Could you just expand on how Bucy specifically helps you win in China or what you're going to do differently and particularly in the context of Joy's announcement that they're acquiring IMM? Ann it's Steve Wunning.
And Bucyrus does have some joint ventures in China.
It gives us a foothold to begin to grow that business.
Their presence in China is bigger than you think in terms of what they've been able to sell.
And it's not just the manufacturing that they have in China but it's their manufacturing they have outside of China.
And China is very big in underground coal and this now gives us the capability to address the underground coal market in China and India outside of China -- with manufacturing plants outside of China but also the foothold that Bucyrus already has in China.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Obin.
BofA Merrill Lynch.
Just a question on profitability in the quarter.
Sequentially why did we have profitability hit on construction and resources but not on power even if power pricing was in line with the corporate average? And I understand that there was some Japan impact on the construction side.
But even excluding Japan revenue seems to have gone up $900 million with no improvement to profitability on a sequential basis.
Andrew this is Mike.
I'll back up from that and probably answer the question a little bit different than the way you asked it.
When we were sitting here 3 months ago dissecting the first quarter and talking about our outlook there was a -- we had quite a bit of discussion about that.
Our outlook absolutely reflected a higher sales rate in the first quarter and lower profit for the rest of the year.
That's what was in our outlook.
That's what we communicated.
That's what we talked about.
We expected that from the first quarter that we would have higher sales and this really cuts across all the segments.
We said we would have a higher sales.
We said the first quarter was a lot higher in price realization than we expected for the year and that that would moderate and it did.
We said the first quarter is seasonally a low-cost quarter.
It's usually the lowest-cost quarter of the year.
For discretionary cost it was.
Overhead cost did go up as we expected.
We said that material costs would -- were going to go up later in the year and they have gone up some.
It's not massive.
But I think in the second quarter material costs were up close to $100 million.
So those were all things that we talked about.
We talked about R&amp;D going up.
It went up in the second quarter as well.
There's one other item that happened and that's the outlook.
We actually raised the outlook.
Again excluding Bucyrus we raised the outlook $0.50 a share for the year.
And that caused us to take an incentive comp hit in the second quarter because we always catch up the year-to-date whenever we make that change.
So we have an extra $85 million of incentive comp in the second quarter.
So in a nutshell -- and again this cut across all the segments to differing degrees but essentially the same story.
We have higher sales offset by costs that were going up coming off the seasonal low usual first quarter.
We had the continuing pressure on material cost that we expected.
We had the price realization moderating to about what we forecasted.
We've had -- we took a price increase in January of about 1%.
That's roughly what we got in the second quarter.
So everything that happened in the second quarter is essentially consistent with our outlook and what we talked about at this point in time 3 months ago.
Let me ask a follow-up question.
What happens to your Bucyrus synergy number if you transfer all the parts business that you intend by the end of 2012 with no gains or losses on transfer? Just to give us a range what kind of what you might call the accretion we're going to get on what's going to be left to Caterpillar after you're done transferring the business.
Just a range extreme case if you transfer everything at cost to what you bought it from Bucy.
Not going to do that not because I'm afraid of the number but because we made a decision that we've entered discussions with the dealers.
The good data that we have is around the total.
There are a lot of variables on timing.
So in terms of the impact that the dealers are going to have we'll start talking about that when we have a better handle on the specifics and actually when it's specifically going to happen.
We'll take our next question from Seth Weber.
LLC</strong> It's RBC.
I guess on the Bucyrus transaction I was surprised to see that all of the -- all of BI's equipment is going to go through the dealers.
I mean can you just talk about the -- your confidence and the competency of the dealers to sell the underground equipment that they really don't have a history with? Seth this is Steve Wunning.
That's a very good question.
I guess to put a little bit more clarity into that is that some of the -- the underground is a great example.
The continuous miners the armored-face carriers there's a lot of customization there.
And even the drag lines in some of the big road shovels there's not that many that are sold around the world.
For those types of products there's going to still be a lot of factories support a lot of application engineers working directly with the customer.
So we're not going to transfer that expertise to the dealer because that doesn't make sense.
But what we want to do is to have the dealer along with us there so that he can help us support that product once it's installed and running.
So it won't be exactly the same kind of dealer support that we see with say a D10 for the big unique type of Bucyrus products.
But they are going to be with us there because they will have a role.
And all those details will be worked out over the next few months.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
I mean do you think that you'll target a smaller number of more specialized dealers to do the underground? Or it's just going to -- you're not going to get that deep into it? Well for the underground we'll target those dealers that serve -- that where underground within their regions which does select -- which is a fewer number of dealers.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just a follow-up question on the incremental margin.
Mike are you -- is Caterpillar still endorsing the 25% number of target for this year? And if so is -- I mean is that including the currency adjustment not including? Could you just clarify that? Yes.
I'll look -- just back to our outlook.
Midpoint of our outlook today -- again when we talked about that number it was excluding acquisitions.
So our outlook again went up $0.50 a share.
We're at $55 billion and $7 at the midpoint.
And excluding EMD which is also an acquisition in there that's partial-year-to-partial-year -- so I'm not trying to get too tricky here but just trying to make it apples-to-apples.
Our outlook for the year reflects a number that's pretty darn close to 25%.
LLC</strong> Is that with the currency adjustment though? Sure.
Yes.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Okay.
No no no.
Wait a minute.
That's all in as reported.
I mean we're not adjusting anything out.
The only thing we were trying to do in the Q&amp;A regarding currency was just provide some additional explanation of -- we had a bigger hill to climb in the second quarter.
I mean we had expected that incrementals would come down in the second quarter.
We knew currency at that time was going to be a headwind.
We were just trying to isolate and show you how much of an impact it had.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But on a calculation basis we should just -- we should use the 18% number but still assume...
Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And why was currency such a big headwind this quarter? Well yes.
Well in the scheme of things we try to be relatively balanced on an operating income basis but we're never -- it's never precisely balanced.
We had a very positive impact on sales $351 million.
That's a weaker dollar.
A lot of that was the euro the Aussie dollar Brazil the comps virtually every currency was weaker versus the dollar than a year ago and that upped the sales.
But we also have just a ton of cost around the world not -- non-U.S.
cost based and so that's what we try to balance.
So in a perfect world we would have had $350 million of cost increases.
In fact we had a little over $450 million.
One of the things that's changed with currency exposure for us over the past couple of years is our consolidation of Cat Japan.
It's in our -- it's consolidated in our results now and our net Japan cost exposure is quite a bit higher.
And most of the negative in the quarter was yen related.
I hope that helps.
We'll take our next question from Joel Tiss.
Inc.</strong> Buckingham Research.
Can you talk a little bit about the pricing side of things? Is there a strategic decision to hold the line on pricing in the nearer term? Or is there any issue with customers being able to accept a little bit higher prices? This is Mike.
I'll start off with it and then maybe one of the guys will want to chime in.
But we came into the year -- I'll say 2 things.
One at our Analyst Review in New York a little over a year ago about a year ago and at CONEXPO I mean we made a point then that we are trying to drive the Cat business model.
And the Cat business model thrives on a big fuel population so there's probably some bias that's driving higher sales volume.
When we came into this year our announced price increase was about 1% rough.
I mean it ranges by product.
Kind of the net average was about 1%.
That's what we put in place.
We don't change pricing every month.
We normally do a price increase in January.
It'll be at a small midyear.
It'll come in July.
We announced that a few months ago.
And then beyond that there are month-to-month quarter-to-quarter fluctuations just based on what product they're selling to what customer and what country so it does fluctuate a bit but essentially we came into the year thinking somewhere around 1%.
We had pretty good level in the first quarter.
And now the second quarter is about where we said we expected the year to be.
I'll just comment again kind of at a strategic level.
Doug Oberhelman here.
And I would answer it more emphatically than Mike did about our business model.
The Caterpillar business model runs on fuel population which allows our dealers to thrive in the downturn which they all did through 2008 '09 and '10.
In fact we only lost one dealer in that period of time around the world out of our 180 in the financial problems and arguably it was the recession that caused these financial problems.
So when our dealers are strong in a downturn we typically see market share gains coming out of a recovery which is consistent with what we're seeing today.
And therefore going forward to drive the parts business and the service model that really rings the bell for our customers which is what they like to see.
That's what really has to happen here.
And you're seeing a bias towards that in Mike's words absolutely correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up just trying to get down to the question that I think keeps being answered.
When you gave us the preliminary 2012 not really guidance but just sort of a range to think about the $8 to $10 that $8 was based on roughly $55 billion of revenues.
So here we are in 2011 but the -- your range is more $7-ish.
So can you just give us a sense of what slipped there? And how does that look into 2012? I'm not asking for a forecast.
I'm just saying you know what I mean the efficiency of the profits relative to the revenues.
Joe this is Ed.
A couple of things I'd say about -- and we're still -- as Mike kind of alluded to earlier that 2012 number $8 to $10 $55 billion to $60 billion we still feel very confident in terms of that.
Your question about the $55 billion and $7 would be a couple of things.
First of all when we laid that out we clearly excluded the acquisitions.
And if you take a number of those acquisitions out especially related to EMD you're going to get to a sales number that's really closer to about $53.5 billion at the midpoint of our outlook.
So that would be one point.
The second as we took you through earlier we've got additional incentive comp here based on the rate of the outlook.
And in a normal year you'd be at about a 1.0 factor on that incentive comp.
So at that level versus what we're at today would add another $0.40 to that $7 number which once again moves you closer to that range.
The last one is when we laid out the $8 to $10 at $55 billion in 2012 we also laid out the fact that we were transforming our machinery business.
And many of those businesses are underway.
You're seeing good year over improvement in terms of what they're at in 2011 but we had projected upfront that the -- that transformation was going to be completed by 2012 to deliver those numbers.
So those would be the things that would be different from today.
That's a great answer it Ed.
And I'll only add a couple of things to it and that's the performance of the company since the recovery began in early 2010.
And if you look at our incremental margins from that point to today compare that to the early days of the 2003 ramp-up period you take our quality levels our safety levels our pull-through levels just about any internal metric we have and I will give a seat to the Cat Production System all the credit for this and our management team we are far better off arguably 18 to 24 months into the recovery than we were the last time around.
So I'm paying a lot of attention to that and we're spending a lot of time on internal efficiency and productivity.
And actually you're seeing it in the numbers.
And certainly 2012 and 2015 are dependent on us at completing and achieving those numbers and I am absolutely confident we will.
The next question is coming from Andrew Casey.
LLC</strong> Wells Fargo Securities.
A couple of questions.
First on cash flow you've had back-to-back performances for each quarter in Q1 and Q2 that are pretty much the best in over a decade for free cash flow defined as OCF less CapEx.
Can you talk about how sustainable that is and what if any impact we should expect over the next several quarters from Bucyrus? In other words is there inventory benefit that you can take advantage of there? Andy this is Ed.
Good question.
And as we laid out the strategy we made it very clear that we were going to have a very balanced view in terms of the P&amp;L and cash flow.
As you remember we made it one of the top-tier metrics.
We took you through OPACC operating profit after capital charge and we're really driving that down the organization to create that awareness.
And I think you've seen it in terms of the cash flow improvements that we've had.
If you look at the year-to-date numbers and you comment it's very strong and I'd say a lot of that has been in the profit the receivables and the payables space.
The inventory turns for us this year are what I would say are on line with planned.
But going forward the greatest opportunity does lie in inventory turns.
And Doug talked earlier about CPS and what we're doing there.
We're also getting very focused in terms of the supply chain the strategy talked about collaboration with suppliers.
If I look at the next great opportunity in terms of cash flow it's going to be in improving those inventory turns.
Andy this is Steve Wunning.
Just to add to Ed's comments as a kind of -- one of the line guys is that I've never seen more focus on cash and cash management than what I've seen in the last 2 years.
And it's very clear that each of the group Presidents and their leadership team they've got all the levers and all the controls to deliver on those commitments.
And Doug has made it very clear to all of us what we need to do and our focus on cash has never been higher.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then if I could get a clarification on the FX impact on the quarter.
If you hold FX pretty much constant at current rates what sort of impact do you expect I guess for the year within the guidance? Andy off the top of my head I don't have that.
Normally when we do our forecast we're not -- we don't normally forecast future changes in the longer-term rate.
We essentially use a current rate.
So we wouldn't be forecasting from here forward a change in rates.
But the rates even now versus what they were in the third and fourth quarter a year ago will obviously be different.
Off the top of my head I don't know what the second half versus second half is off the top of my head.
Sorry.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I'll follow up later on that Mike.
One last clarification.
The integration costs are you going to give us those on a quarter-by-quarter basis until you're done? Well I think for -- the vast majority of them are going to be this year.
And so I think certainly for the rest of this year we'll talk about what the total of those upfront integration costs are.
I think it'll depend -- for next year it'll depend a little bit on what are -- when we get to the end of the year what our forecast for the following year is.
Right now what -- and it's on the slide that Ed showed you.
Our estimate for next year right now is about $100 million.
Our next question is coming from Theoni Pilarinos.
Raymond James.
I just had a question about the dealers and the payment.
I'm just wondering since most of your dealers are private how you expect them to finance the purchase and if you -- if Cat Financial will be helping them in any way to do that.
I'd say first of all one of the great strengths of the Caterpillar business model is the financial strength of our dealer organization.
So if you look at the Mining business where it happens around the world those are some of our absolute strongest dealers well capitalized with good access to credit.
There may be some instances where they determine to draw on Cat Finance for financing but they have plenty of sources in terms of their financing to draw from.
So I think the financing of it from a dealer perspective is not going to be an issue.
The next question is coming from Mark Koznarek.
Cleveland Research.
I just wanted to see if you could provide any kind of sort of -- even kind of philosophical sort of comments about the transfer of the service capabilities to the dealers.
Is it likely to be strictly field population that will be transferred or hired? Or are you contemplating there will be assets sold as part of this? Mark this is Steve Wunning and it's certainly going to be some field population.
There'll be a transition of former Bucyrus employees now Cat that will go to the dealers.
These will basically be the product support people field people.
Bucyrus had a lot of service technicians that worked on the product so that will naturally go to the dealer.
A lot of the parts warehousing type people make sense to take it to the dealer.
So it's a lot of the people that faced actually with the customers or the product that will naturally go to the dealer.
On a case-by-case basis and that's part of each one of the discussions with the dealers there will be some assets that will transfer to dealers.
And don't have much detail on that because we're just now beginning to dig into that to figure out which assets would go to the dealer.
So is it reasonable then to assume that this is mostly like labor that we'll be transferring labor revenues rather than the high profit parts profitability? This is Mike.
I'll jump in.
Aftermarket parts are a good profit business for Cat even excluding Bucyrus and it's a good margin business for dealers as well.
And I think as we transition the dealers into Bucyrus it will be a similar model.
I mean we'll deal with the dealers likely in a similar way on parts like we do with the rest of Cat aftermarket.
We acquire the parts.
We get them around the world.
Dealers hold some inventory.
We sell to dealers they sell to customers.
Got it.
Blended tax rate for...
I would just add a little bit to that Mark.
Doug here.
And that -- the reason we're going to the dealer model is because we think they will do a better job in the aftermarket with selling more parts and more labor than we would going direct.
So while we'll maintain our margin on sales to them and they'll maintain their markup on part sales to their customers we think the pie is going to grow fairly significantly over time due to their expertise being superior to what we think we could do directly.
Maybe to add on what -- this is Steve.
Just to add on Doug's comment.
This mining equipment really consumes a lot of parts.
And this is just an untapped opportunity and we really want to leverage our dealers to help us go after that.
And that's truly a strength that we have and we believe that's much better to do it through our dealer than using a factory-direct model.
The next question is coming from Henry Kirn.
It's UBS.
Sorry I don't want to beat the transfer of the service business into the ground.
But can you talk about how much flexibility you have in selling the pieces from one Cat dealer to another? In other words if one dealer weren't willing to pay the price you were looking for could you sell it to another of your dealers? Or are you geographically limited to selling the Bucyrus business? Yes.
Henry I think that's probably putting a spin on it that is going down the road we don't need to go.
Steve mentioned this early on.
The dealers are super excited about this.
They want to grow.
This is right down their alley.
They've asked us to do this.
So I would say we're pretty confident that we'll get this done.
That's fair.
And on EMD it was an operating income drag on the quarter but could you talk about where it is versus your expectations and what you see for the business going forward? Yes.
I'll just say a couple of things.
One it is a very late cycle business.
I mean it's kind of like large mining engines turbines.
It works off of a lengthy backlog.
We expected going into it that '11 and '12 will likely to be the trough because it was late cycle before improving.
I'd say our expectations around this business are actually very good.
Witnessed by the new factory we're putting in monthly to increase locomotive capacity.
So our view between here and 2015 for rail is actually very good.
But that said we fully expected when we did the acquisition that actually both '11 and '12 would be weak years.
Yes.
Oberhelman here.
I'll just kind of give you my view on where EMD is which unfortunately it's being overshadowed by Bucyrus as the smoke fades around here at the moment.
But you got to remember that we've got with EMD installed a locomotive base around the world a huge parts opportunity.
Freight rail and certainly freight opportunity is increasing.
What we are seeing where we've gotten into the factories and the supply chain of EMD is lots of opportunity for improvement.
We've had good reception from our Class 1 customers about where we're headed on this.
And I am -- this will be one of our gems down the road as we go but it was a mere $800 million acquisition.
I guess that kind of got caught up with the shuffle here the last year but we're really going to be proud of this in 1 year or 2.
And it's doing what it's supposed to do here in 2011 and '12.
And once we get it really humming I think it'll be a great addition to our portfolio.
I would say the same thing about MWM.
We made a comment in the Q&amp;A.
We're on track some time this year.
That's another one that we haven't talked much about.
We will after closing but that's got a bright future down the road as well.
Henry this is Ed.
The only thing I'd add on the EMD side is it does tie directly to the discussion we're having today on Bucyrus.
Because if you listen to the major mining companies around the world and the issues they've got is the infrastructure to get more support is a huge opportunity.
And knowing those large mining through our Cat Mining organization being able to bring an EMD Progress Rail into those discussions is an upside that I think is really going to make this a great business over the long haul.
The next question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Credit Suisse.
Two questions.
One when I think about Bucyrus and how it sort of tied into incentive comp does management have to hit the specific Bucyrus financials sort of synergy targets you laid out for us today? Or do I -- or does management instead will be compensated more on Cat targets which incorporate Bucyrus? And then my second question relates to again sorry the $8 to $10 in 2012.
You guys were pretty vocal about saying the $8 to $10 this excludes acquisitions and I think the Street was hoping for a material rate perhaps more in the $9 to $11 or to push out of the $8 to $10 per share range.
And it looks like that's off the table based on where you're guiding at 2011 in the initial accretion from Bucyrus.
Is that the right way to read it? Well I'll tell you what.
I'm going to bracket part of that.
I'll give you a comment on incentive comps within 2012.
And then in terms of Bucyrus-specific incentive comp I guess I don't know the answer to that maybe Steve does.
On the first question on the incentive -- the short-term incentive comps that we talked about today raising it because we raised the outlook.
That excludes -- for the rest of Cat it excludes the impact of Bucyrus for this year.
When we went into this year our outlook -- excluding Bucyrus because it hadn't closed.
We didn't know for sure when the timing was going to be.
And so for the rest of the company we set up our incentive comps measures excluding the impact of Bucyrus.
So the reason incentive comp went up today is because we took the outlook up excluding Bucyrus by $0.50.
In terms of the $8 to $12 again that's a target that we put in place back in '09.
Doug made a fairly emphatic "by golly that's our target" comment a little while ago but realistically we don't have an outlook yet for -- a specific outlook for 2012.
It's getting a little every -- time goes by a little more awkward to talk about our target because 2012 is just right around the quarter.
It won't be long before we actually do have guidance for 2012.
We normally provide kind of a preliminary sales guidance with our third quarter release and we'll probably do that again this year.
And then in January we'll give our full year expectations for 2012.
I think as Doug said we're pretty bullish.
I mean think about it.
We raised our sales outlook today.
If you take EMD out of it midpoint of our -- which is excluding acquisitions.
In 2011 I mean we're already at $53.5 billion roughly without Bucyrus so things are going pretty darn good.
All right Mike a girl's got to try.
But then just specific can someone answer the question with how you see this tied into incentive comp? Jamie let me just add to Mike on the incentive piece.
We have a small team that is full time who's doing the integration.
It's about 100 people as I mentioned.
They do have -- their incentive is tied to how well the planning is done and how well we integrate this year.
It's not material to the company's financials.
The important part here though is that as we do our 2012 business plan we're going to make sure that the Bucyrus synergies are drilled into those business plans because we want to make sure that all those synergies hits the bottom line.
And the best way to do that is to make sure that each and every one of our businesses and their plans and in their targets and in their incentive plans -- so from 2012 and beyond these synergies will begin to be drilled into their commitments.
And it's for the broader company not the small team in 2012 and beyond? It's used to be for the Mining business and all the other divisions that are supporting the Mining business for their synergy piece.
That will be drilled into their business plans.
Yes.
And I'll come back to 2012.
I think Ed referenced it earlier.
Our OPACC operating profit after capital charge philosophy here which we have sort of been running in parallel in 2011 with no incentives tied to it -- we intended 2010 as we said in New York and Las Vegas to bring that in as a metric for management.
So far that parallelling I guess review looks very good.
We like what we see.
And I think the cash flow is indicative of that and maybe a few other things but we would intend to implement that across the company for all of our employees or in most all of them in 2012.
The next question is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Longbow Securities.
One -- just a couple of clarifications on the financial side of Bucyrus.
You told us in the press release there's $80 million incremental interest charges this year.
What's that number for next year? And the $300 million amortization how long does -- does that go on to the next 10 years? Is that basically on the right up of it? On the interest I think if you were to just to assume somewhere at least for next year in the $10 million to $11 million a month range on the debt that would cover it the way we laid it out.
Now again we said we're in discussions on selling pieces of this to dealers.
And so ultimately that will generate some cash and it might change things a little bit.
But on an all-in basis the way we reported the numbers to you today that $80 million is for 7 months in a week and I think that comes out close to $11 million a month.
Okay.
That's fine.
And the $300 million amortization that's an ongoing thing? Because...
That's an ongoing thing.
And I'll stress this here too with the inventory step-up at max.
Those are estimates right now.
I mean we just completed this acquisition 2 weeks ago and are into the numbers.
So don't write those in sum.
Those are our best estimates right now and that amortization is going to be based on -- there'll be different lines of intangible assets.
So some will be longer than -- some will go on a long time.
Some will be shorter.
But I think for the scope of the next few years you can probably think of that as a reasonable estimate.
Okay.
Now let me ask you a question.
When you talk about mining CapEx in the industry of 50% this year can you give us some idea of where you are in capacity in the Mining business without Bucyrus and for Bucyrus itself? Because we knew a lot of product was sort of sold out so are we at capacity? And the real question is how much incremental capacity would you have available for 2012 over '11? Eli this is Steve Wunning.
For some of our products we are at capacity.
But what we're doing is we are making -- in the process of installing some investments that we've already committed to to increase our capacity.
We are going to be adding more capacity even sooner now because of the long-term forecast that we see in the mining space over the next couple of years and we'll be adding that capacity over the next couple of years.
The long-term forecast goes out longer than that.
We're working with our suppliers and our dealers to make sure that they're prepared for the growth that we see because the last thing we want to happen is to have our factories ready but our supply base can't support it.
So we're spending an awful lot of time now making sure that they're adding the capacity and they understand what our plans are.
I guess I'm trying to ask is how much incremental production can you get out of the mining sector in '12 versus '11 from the capacity now and coming online.
I think that you probably wouldn't have much more than 10% to 15% next year and this is trying to get a feel of that.
Eli usually when we get to the third quarter we kind of do a preliminary guidance on at least the top line for the following year.
And while we say that for October that's probably a better time to talk about that.
Mike one thing I would add is that what we are doing is we spent a lot of time over the last 4 or 5 years deploying the Cat Production System within our factories.
We are now using CPS and deploying it with our supply base which is allowing us to increase capacity without making additional investments.
And that's where a lot of the focus is right now is to using CPS principles throughout the entire supply chain.
And can you talk a little bit about the expected impact of cost in the second half of the year? You've got material of $100 million but we've had commodity cost come up and down.
Are we still looking at higher cost in the second half of the year from the first half of the year? I think it depends a little bit on the category.
If you look at material costs and freight costs which were a pretty good drag on the second quarter there's probably still a little upside pressure on material cost in the second half.
With freight there's quite a bit of fuel surcharge in there.
[Indiscernible] with fuel prices down there -- maybe there's an opportunity for a little bit of relief in that.
In terms of R&amp;D I suspect that the second half of the year is going to add up a bit.
Relative to the second quarter if you look at incentive comp that was an $85 million hit versus Q1.
Essentially half of that was related to getting the year-to-date right.
So versus the second quarter based on our outlook we would have that going down.
So I think it's a little bit mixed depending upon the cost category you're looking at.
I think if you cut through our guidance though essentially what we have at the midpoint of the guidance is sales and profit in the second half on average for the third and fourth quarters.
Given we don't have quarterly guidance but on average we've got the third and fourth quarter with sales and profits similar to what we did in the second quarter.
The next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
It's Goldman Sachs.
Steve can you talk about your opportunities on the Bucyrus manufacturing footprint broadly and specifically comment on the CapEx side? I think the excavator product line is essentially out of capacity at this point.
Jerry we are looking at all of the Bucyrus operations.
It's just very early right now to really determine what our total footprint is.
Our main focus right now is looking at capacity that we have and to see what we need to do to increase capacity both for Cat and Bucyrus.
It is going to take us a little bit longer to really determine what is the best global footprint for both Cat and Bucyrus for the Mining business but our focus right now is to -- is looking at how can we increase capacity for both.
And Ed to get to the inventory velocity improvement you discussed earlier on the call can you talk about the extent of improvement you need to see out of your supplier on-time delivery rates and just talk about where in that process you stand today? Yes.
Steve commented earlier on the fact that we've spent a lot of time in terms of deploying CPS across our footprint and now it's a questions of taking that out to our supply base.
And if you go back to the strategy and the heart of it we talked about the concept of supplier collaboration and integration.
And I think what you see us doing is we're fully integrated as you know out into our distribution organization and we're looking to take those very same principles and apply it back to our supply base.
I think we're getting outstanding engagement from our supplier organization.
I mean if you think about where we're at with the sales level in the second quarter of 2011 this thing from a volume perspective bottomed out back in kind of the third quarter of '09.
And from that standing-still point our supply base has done an outstanding job of responding and taking us to a point where this quarter we had record sales and revenue.
So I think the engagement of our suppliers is there.
I think the methodology is proven out in terms of the Cat Production System.
It's clearly outlined in our strategy as a priority which really helps drive this organization.
So I think that is the key to getting that inventory improvement that we're looking at going forward.
I mean I'd say between now and 2015 we'd really be looking to drive that inventory turn improvement by about 0.5 point which would bring a lot more cash to the bottom line.
Helpful.
And Mike pricing was significantly weaker in Construction Industries this quarter.
Can you talk about which regions are seeing less pricing success? And is the July 1 price increase sticking particularly given the currency headwinds for a lot of your Japanese competitors? Well we're in July right now and I haven't seen any July numbers yet.
So the second part of your question is a little tough to answer.
The first part remember we actually went into the year with a pretty modest expectation for products.
I mean overall we were only looking for something in an order of magnitude 1%.
And as you can imagine in areas like mining I think the opportunity was better there.
The environment was better there.
And if you look at the numbers in the second quarter it bears that out.
But in general I would say overall for the company we're getting about what we expected what we announced in January.
The next question is coming from David Raso.
ISI.
Two questions: one on mix and one on structural costs.
The $2 billion increase in revenues excluding Bucyrus I know you don't give quarterly revenues but how much of that $2 billion already played out in 2Q and then for the rest of the year? And when you think of what was raised where is it coming from? Is it resource construction? Just give us a little color on that $2 billion number.
Yes.
I'd say I'll give you a little bit of color.
The second quarter actually was -- we don't give quarterly guidance but the one bit of info that I can tell you about the second quarter was $100 million impact on Japan was lower than we thought.
So the Japan fees was a little bit better.
What I would tell you is when we were talking about our outlook 3 months ago we said "Hey.
For a lot of products we're capacity constrained or production constrained." I think what allowed us to take this outlook up is actually better production levels at some of those places that were constrained quicker recovery in Japan and in general better demand in the areas where we weren't capacity constrained.
Solar for example is better.
Power Systems is better.
Construction Industries is better.
Mining is getting more production out.
So again we don't do the guidance by quarter.
We don't do it by unit but it was fairly widespread.
Okay.
So regarding mix going forward I'm just trying to square up the rest of the year incrementals.
Or guide at 18 19 all in how much is that currency? And how much is that simply a mix issue? I mean the revenue guidance is broad-based.
It went up to 1 7 1 8 something like that for the back half of the year.
Cost for the second half.
When I think of the structural cost though it's what you just define as like period cost.
Right.
All the cost that were going on from the factory expansions trying to think about '12 operating leverage where are we in trying to size the capacity for the growth numbers? You spoke of long-term '12 '13 '14 to out.
How much is the cost of some that will get done in '11? And how many of the factories giving an update from you right now on Tianjin China for the big engines and other facilities? Where are we by the end of '11? Do we get a nice story of revenues next year? And are ready -- put my cost in in '11? Or is it an ongoing issue into '12? Yes.
That's actually -- that's a very good point David.
There's no doubt that the period costs this year are impacted by all those capacity additions that we've in flight.
They're all not going to be down this year though.
I mean we've got -- if you take Suzhou for example the next phase of that expansion doesn't get -- doesn't really take hold until the end of '12.
So the excavator facility in Texas that will still be in flight through the first part of next year as well.
So I mean we have cost this year.
We'll have cost related to capacity expansion next year.
Again when we -- it's a little premature I think to talk about -- too much about 2012 cost because there's a lot of moving pieces.
And I think to some degree it will depend upon what our view is at that point in time on what else we need to do in 2012 to deal with '13 '14 and '15.
David this is Ed.
I think the only thing back to kind of the earlier comments and some of Doug's points is that I think you do have to assume based on our long-term outlook that there will be continuing investments relative to capacity.
I mean the emerging market growth you know the story there.
If you take the U.S.
and Europe where it's 50% of the prior peak you got little fleets in U.S.
dealers today that are below the '02 bottom average age is 30% older.
There's a replacement cycle coming and then that's why you're seeing investment this year.
I think you're going to see investment moving forward as well.
And indulge me 2 quickies.
Other -- the all other category was a little bit of a negative surprise.
Right.
What were the drivers there? And then secondarily how are you viewing growth the rest of the year in China on a year-over-year basis? Okay.
Two things.
On the all other there are 2 pieces of it.
There was sales actually declined and the margin rate dropped.
The sales decline was essentially part of machinery.
We sold part of machinery last quarter or actually at the end of the first quarter.
So their revenue sales sales to outsiders were in that segment before.
So that went away and Construction and Mining and the Power Systems divisions their sales now to the dealer that's independent now part of machinery went up a little.
So on the sale side down in that segment up a little bit in the others.
From a profit standpoint one of the groups -- there's a lot of intercompany activity in that group.
One of the groups that's in that group is our internal logistics group.
We've seen quite an increase in freight costs this year.
A lot of the brunt of the freight cost increase has been borne in that division.
And in the short term it doesn't get passed back to the others.
Okay.
And regarding China? I'm not going to do any quarterly guidance on China.
Our second quarter -- our sales were up.
We're still pretty bullish on China overall.
We've got an above 9% GDP growth rate in for China.
There's been a lot of discussion in the news about the growth rates there slowing down.
That doesn't mean it's going negative but I do think the growth rate that we all saw in the industry from the first quarter is likely to come down a bit.
Yes.
I'm going to conclude David with that comment on China.
I wanted to get this in at some point and I'm glad you brought it up because we do hear a lot about that.
We watch it very closely.
But I view a slowdown emphasis on slowdown not crash in China as pretty favorable for Caterpillar and for our industry.
We all knew that market was way too hot and it probably will heat up again at some point.
But a slowdown let's us all in the industry take a breath make sure we don't over-capacitize and it gives us a chance to kind of.
The other thing it does it allows us where we can and because of our -- again our global footprint we can source into or out of China because we are making world-class excavators there.
And there are other hot markets where we've been sure that if there's capacity that freeze up in China we can use elsewhere.
So I do not view a slowdown in China as a bad thing at all.
I would view a crash as a bad thing.
I don't think the Chinese will allow that to happen.
They've had a good run over the last 30 years of walking the tightrope.
The tightening they started this year was healthy.
It started to pay off.
We would expect the slowdown.
We've seen it.
But again the hot market we saw there in '09 '10 '11 was just too hot.
We all knew it.
So a slowdown for us I think is healthy.
But David I would say slow down and we'll be watching that very closely.
And at some point it'll pick back up and I think we'll be as Mike said looking at growth rates that are very manageable for us.
All righty.
With that we're slightly over time.
Thank you very much for joining us today and we'll talk to you over the next couple of months.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open up the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning and welcome everyone to Caterpillar's third quarter earnings call.
I am Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
I am pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and our Group President and CFO Ed Rapp with me on the call today.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting it in the Investor section of our caterpillar.com website.
It will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we will be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22 of this year.
And also on our forward-looking statements language contained in today's release.
Okay this morning I will start by summarizing our third quarter financial results the increase in our outlook for 2011 and our preliminary outlook for 2012 sales and revenues.
Earlier today we were happy to report a record breaking third quarter.
Sales and revenues were $15.7 billion and that was an all time record the best quarter ever in our history.
Now the quarter did include $1.1 billion in sales and revenues from our recent acquisition of Bucyrus.
Excluding Bucyrus sales and revenues were $14.6 billion and that was also an all time record.
Profit was a $1.71 per share in the quarter and that did include a negative impact of $0.22 a share related to Bucyrus.
Excluding Bucyrus profit was an all time record at a $1.93 per share.
The $0.22 impact from Bucyrus included acquisition related expenses of a $160 million for the inventory step up and a $122 million of deal-related and integration costs.
Now the inventory step up will continue in the fourth quarter and there will be more deal-related costs but much less in total than the third quarter.
There is a good summary of Bucyrus related impacts in our financial release and its on page 15; its in the table in the Q&amp;A.
Now one other point on Bucyrus when you review our financial results by segment remember that Bucyrus is in resource industries.
And when you review our sales by geographic region remember that Bucyrus impacts every region.
Now to help you understand that impact we broken up Bucyrus sales by region in our discussion of resource industries on page 10 of the release.
Because of the size of Bucyrus to keep the discussion apples-to-apples will compare our third quarter 2011 results excluding Bucyrus with our total third quarter 2010 results.
And again at 14.6 with out Bucyrus it was a record quarter up 31% from a $11.1 billion a year ago.
Sales and revenues were up in every geographic region with North America up 25% Latin America 20% Europe Africa Middle East up 41% and Asia Pacific up 38% and again those exclude Bucyrus.
Now in terms of the timing of the sales increase and the backlog growth it was reasonably consistent as we went through out the quarter.
Now speaking of the order backlog for all products other than Bucyrus it rose a 11% from the end of the second quarter in June from about $21.9 billion to $24.4 billion at the end of the third quarter.
And its about 40% higher than it was at the end of the third quarter a year ago.
Now Bucyrus backlog grew from about $3.5 billion at the time of our acquisition in July to $4.2 billion at the end of September.
Now moving on to the results price realization was $129 million and that is up close to 1% and above as we expected.
Manufacturing costs were up $330 million and of that period or fixed manufacturing costs were the most significant driver and the primary reasons for that increase were our volume increase the investments that were making in capacity and the increases in our short-term incentive compensation.
In addition to the period costs material and freight were also somewhat higher.
Now SG&amp;A and R&amp;D costs were up $82 million in the quarter thats about a 6% increase in costs on our 31% increase in sales.
We think thats pretty good cost control and as a percent of sales SG&amp;A and R&amp;D declined.
Currency impacts overall were negative a $160 million of operating profit its a positive impact on sales of $356 million but a negative impact on operating costs of $516 million.
The most significant net negatives were from the yen and the British pound.
The US dollar was weaker versus both the yen and the pound and we are sizable net exporters from both Japan and the UK.
As you do your analysis of our third quarter results Im sure many of you will do the math and calculate incremental operating margin.
To help you out with that weve included a Q&amp;A.
So on page 12 as number 12 on page 18 of our financial release.
Now when you calculate incremental margin your purpose is likely to be to get a data point on our operating performance.
We think to make it a reasonable analysis you need to pull out the impact of acquisitions to make it apples-to-apples.
And thats how weve stated our goal for the year and thats excluding the acquisitions of EMD and Bucyrus.
Excluding the acquisitions our consolidated incremental operating profit pull through was 22% in the quarter and 24% year-to-date through September.
That 24% year-to-date number is a little lower than our goal which was 25% for the year and the primary reason for that is negative currency impact.
Excluding currency impacts incremental operating profit was 30% in the third quarter and was 20% year-to-date.
Bottom line; we have 24% year-to-date versus our goal of 25% thats pretty close.
And operationally excluding currency were doing even better than our goal.
All in all it was a good quarter for sales and profit.
Costs were in good shape margins improved.
In fact excluding Bucyrus our year-to-date operating profit as a percent of sales is better than any full year in more than three decades.
Cash flow was also a great story; our machinery and engines operating cash flow was over $6.1 billion through the first nine months of the year.
That means if we stop the year at the end of September it would be an all-time record.
The first nine months have been better than any full year in our history.
Our debt to capital ratio continues to improve and it dropped to 41.1% at the end of the third quarter thats down from 42.6% at the end of the second quarter.
As a reminder we bought Bucyrus for almost $9 billion and we did not issue equity to do it and even with the acquisition our debt to cap ratio is 41.1% and we had more than $3 billion in cash on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
Okay thats enough about the quarter.
This morning we also increased our outlook for 2011.
all in with Bucyrus our new 2011 outlook with sales and revenues of about $58 billion and profit of $6.75 a share.
Our previous outlook was a range of $56 billion to $58 billion with profit of $6.25 to $6.75 a share.
Excluding Bucyrus our new outlook is for sales and revenues of about $56 billion and profit of $7.25.
Previous outlook was a range of $54 billion to $56 billion and $6.75 to $7.25 a share.
Now thats a lot of numbers but I think the easiest way to think about the change in the outlook is this; from the mid point of our previous guidance we raised sales and revenues by about a $1 billion in the bottom line by $0.25 a share both with and with out Bucyrus.
Now as we usually do with this time of the year we provided a preliminary sales and revenue outlook for next year 2012.
For 2012 we expect our total sales and revenues to be up 10% to 20% from the outlook for 2011 of $58 billion.
Now thats based on our view that the developed countries of the world will continue to grow in 2012 a little bit better than 2011 but at a slow rate and below their potential.
In the developing world we expect overall economic growth at about the same pace as 2011.
In the US we still expect continuing poor housing a little better than this year but still very weak.
We are also not factoring in any new highway build but we are encouraged that it seems to be gaining some traction in Washington.
In summary; we are still predicting improving but slow economic growth.
In some of our businesses thats actually good.
Well many of our products were producing full out we need time to get more capacity in place.
Despite the relatively weak economic growth so far this year in 2011 our order backlog has steadily increased throughout the year its in a record level and that will help support next year sales.
Commodity prices; well off earlier highs are still levels that should continue to be favorable for mining investment.
We expect the dealers will continue to add to rental fleets to reduce their average machine ages and increase fleet sizes.
Users in developed countries still need to catch up on deferred replacements and we expect construction activity to continue to improve in developing countries requiring some further fleet expansion.
We expect the dealers throughout the world will modestly increase machine inventories in 2012 to support the higher sales.
And we also expect that sales of engines turbines and rail will improve next year.
Now we understand we dont have a crystal ball and as Doug said in this morning release we realize the world faces economic uncertainty and risk and a key part of our planning process is to make sure we are prepared if this situation turns negative.
Each of our businesses prepares trough plans and thats a standard practice here; Cat would do it every year and actually help us act faster should the need to take action arises.
Bottom line; our business is improving.
The signs that we see need us to believe that will continue but were keeping a close eye in the world economy and will act if we need to.
Just a couple of more points and then well take your questions.
The first is rightful we talk a lot about economics and sales and cost and profit but there are few other aspects of our business that are also going very well.
Quality levels continue to improve for almost all of our product groups.
Were well into our US Tier 4 in European Stage IIIB product introductions.
We are going very well so far and feedback from the field has been very good.
Another area improvement has been tens and while we dont disclose absolute numbers I will tell you were gaining; its been a steady year-over-year improvement each month since early 2010.
And my final point; employment.
Our global workforce has continued to increase in the third quarter and since the beginning of 2010 weve added more than 30 000 people at Caterpillar and that does not include the acquisitions that we made.
Okay thats enough about the quarter.
We are ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is coming from Stephen Volkmann.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning its Jefferies &amp; Company.
Good morning Steve.
Inc.</strong> Im wondering Mike if you might be willing to sort of directionally help us think about how incremental margins might kind of proceed into 2012 and really get a number of things that were sort of headwinds this year I think by currency and price cost and some of these comp accruals and so forth.
And it seems like most of those should be a little better next year but then again we are later in the cycle with little bit higher production levels I just kind of conceptually how do you think about the progression of incremental margins? Well Ill talk around it little bit Steve we dont have profit guidance for next year.
But as you said there will be plenty of puts and takes.
On the positive side this year weve far exceeded our plan for the year and the results of that is incentive comp is quite a bit higher than a regular target number well higher than our outlook.
So that would actually be a fairly sizable tailwind going into next year.
Currency as you said has been a big negative so far this year and I guess thats well see how the currency plays out.
Hopefully it wont be a headwind next year but well just have to wait and see what happens on the currency next year.
There are a couple of headwinds; were were increasing capacity.
For lot of our product were producing full out right now.
As youve seen us announce over the last 18 months we have a lot of projects in place and that does drive some increase in expense.
I guess I would wrap all that up and say so far this year year-to-date even including the negative from currency weve done about 24% excluding acquisitions.
Our goal leading up to 2012 through 2012 our long-term goal has been around 25% so certainly thats what we will thats our goal.
But again we dont have profit guidance for next year so its a little tough to be more explicit than that.
Inc.</strong> Yeah understood thats exactly what I was looking for.
And then sorry to get into the weeds here but was there an interest rate swap loss I think you are guiding to something 150 million-ish and Im just trying to make sure Im thinking about interest expense right may be at somewhere else? No we did have about a 150 million of swap losses but that was in the second quarter thats behind us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So nothing else going forward.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Rob Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
LLC.</strong>  and good morning everybody.
You know your orders were really exceptional and it looks to me I know you dont disclose orders with your backlog but it looks to me like it ticked upwards pretty significantly in 3Q.
Just interesting given that the uncertainty sort of picked up which is well in August.
So can you tell me was there anything.
Mike you mentioned it in your intro comments but were orders continuing to be strong through the end of the month and not to get too micro?  Yeah thats a good question and I dont normally talk about how things progressed through the quarter but with all the uncertainty we were trying to send a settle signal there that there we had good consistent growth as we went through the quarter.
LLC.</strong> Okay.
Helpful.
That was on purpose.
LLC.</strong> Good.
Somewhat unrelated follow-up; in China I think you mentioned how you have the finally you have capacity to build a little bit inventory ahead of the selling season.
Can you talk about obviously China there is a lot of negativity around equipment sales in the market.
Is there a point where you start to worry that you need to back off or is there enough share gain ahead of you that that you can ramp into your full capacity that you planned?  Yeah.
You know I think if you look at China and again we dont disclose market share data but there is plenty of information that people can pick up.
There is no big leaders in China; its a very big market a very fragmented market.
Were executing our strategy there.
There is room for quite a bit of growth.
Weve actually done over the last I dont know few months.
Weve done better than the market overall.
Earlier we kept saying time and time again our sales were limited by production and I think whats happened to us relative to the market over the last few months has proved that out.
Its hard to speculate too much about the future its a big market its a growing market its going to need more capacity not just from us but from competitors going forward but you know there is always ups and downs in the timing.
So you know I think we are doing okay.
We are proceeding with the capacity that weve already announced there and that fits nicely within our plans.
LLC.</strong> (Inaudible).
Yeah its Doug Oberhelman here just kind of another view on China from a couple of different angles.
First our sales to users in the third quarter of 011 were higher than they were in 10.
Secondly the slowdown we have seen in the economy as the Chinese authorities have tried to get a hold of inflation in my view is the best thing it could have happened to the construction equipment industry.
The levels of investment the levels of growth that were occurring there before they did that were unsustainable for Caterpillar for our competitors for our industry and it would have lead to a bubble really significant proportions which I think would have been felt around the world.
The fact they got a hold of that early which is no surprise given Chinese history they have proven they cant run that economy ground is getting bigger but the fact they got a hold of that in our industry has slowed down is extremely healthy for us in the long term.
The good news is our excavator business the [Xuzhou] made products there is a world-class product that we can use just about anywhere in the world.
So we have the ability to divert some of that reduction elsewhere in the world where we can keep up until we get our other investments up like in Texas which we have started our new plant there over 20 to 30 ton product and it is underway.
So right now its kind of a sweet spot in my opinion because weve saved the future to a great degree by not having that thing boiling out of control and spilling all over.
And in fact I think well see the Chinese authorities get a hold of inflation reflate believe or not well see 9% I dont know late 10% 11% growth which is wonderful for us.
In long-term it really plays to what our strategy is.
So I am in the camp loud and clear supporting the slowdown in China and in our industry because long-term it helps and it adds then as Mike said we refer to an inventory level in China we wouldnt been able to produce to until probably 13 or 14.
So we are at that level a day our dealers are ready our distribution are ready and we are seeing market share gains which we like.
But as he said there is no clear leader yet because its such a disparate excavator business and wheel loader business but right now Im pretty optimistic what  with where that market has involved to and what I think will be a reasonable growth certainly at a lower level than 15% to 20% that we were seeing but 8% 9% and 10% is great going forward in my opinion.
LLC.</strong>  Thanks Doug.
Thanks Mike.
The next question is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Barclays Capital.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Andy.
Hi Andy.
So if I could just ask you about your guidance for 2012 and maybe in a different way can you talk about the visibility that you have in this guidance given Caterpillar is getting more aftermarket focus.
Its getting more backlog focus and so you know I know there is a lot of macroeconomic uncertainty out there but it seems like those two things would help you and give you better visibility as we go forward?  Well Andy this is Mike.
I think youre right.
I mean particularly with the acquisition of Bucyrus with the relative strength of mining which is a more sort of backlog-oriented business then lets say construction equipment.
You know kind of just going back to the earlier comments from today from the end of June to the end of September our backlog even without Bucyrus went up 11%.
Bucyrus went up a little bit more than that we were up about 40% versus a year ago on backlog so that does help.
You mentioned aftermarket again we dont break that out separately but you know weve had continuing consistent increases in the aftermarket business which basically tells you a couple of things you know on one hand it tells you that activity levels are holding up because now aftermarket is related to activity levels and that gives you some confidence and then I think there is also an impact particularly in the developed world where we just have a little bit of an aging fleet and I think that gives you a little confidence in terms of the need for at least some minimal replacement.
Yeah I  its never a sure thing.
I mean you know as you look forward to next year there are (many) things that could happen but I think as we sit here right now today when you look at aftermarket which is an indicator of activity if you look at the backlog which is an indicator sort of customer confidence I guess it looks pretty good.
Hi Andy this is Ed a couple Id add to that in terms of looking into next year it would be also were seeing rental fleet utilization back to levels that are kind of pre-crisis so it tells you that rental fleet utilization is there thats another thing that kind of gives us some confidence moving forward.
The other one is we continue to see good which is another sign of good demand moving forward.
Thats great and Mike if I could you considerably read about this status for one second 4.2 if Im not mistaken is a recon for the company by a wide range and I know its part of Caterpillar now.
But as we look at that business just they are in few months have been part of Caterpillar the backlog extended quite dramatically is that the impact of Caterpillar you had is that just the strong markets and maybe you could just update us on integration so far?  Yeah well I would say in general mining is just continuing to be very strong and I would certainly hope that customers are happier than its with us right now but it would be hard to look at that and say this one is and this one is not.
It probably has something to do with being part of CAT but probably more to do with being just a really good market.
In terms of the integration  Mikes being a little diplomatic on that Id say of course it is.
Yeah in terms of how the integration is going along weve have them for a few months now.
I think all the early indications have been very good but whenever I talk to people on this they involve the dealers.
So we need to get the business the distribution piece of it moved over the dealers and thats going to take a little bit of time its a very backlog oriented business.
So what theyre selling this quarter is product that they took orders for year or so ago.
So were seeing a nice increase in the order backlog but itll take a little while before that actually translates itself into sales.
Im sure somebody will ask down the road so Ill just this right here right now.
In terms of how are we doing in talking with the dealers about selling them distribution businesses.
And I guess I would say I think thats going pretty well.
We never thought it would be all done you know in one quarter or even this year.
We are focused in the places where you know the bang is the biggest; its with the dealers that have the most opportunity.
Were very excited about you know taking on this business.
But at this point we dont really have any deals to announce and until we do well probably be a little more silent on the specifics surrounded.
So you know I think all in all so far so good on Bucyrus.
We did not change our estimates for this year in terms of the overall impact and so you know I would say thats a good thing.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Susquehanna.
Hey congratulations on a great quarter guys.
The question I was hoping to ask is in regard to the top line guidance for 2012 and I was just wondering if you might be able to walk through some of the assumptions that are little more granular level.
I know you walk through some of the GDP expectations for the US being up 2.5% next year Europe being no more than 1.5% and you talked about US public infrastructure markets being constrained and private non-res improving.
But I was just wondering if you could talk about magnitude and timing of public and private non-res in US and Europe and how youre thinking about various scenarios of austerity in both regions?  Yeah I think in terms of granularity it will be little bit difficult.
We didnt provide a lot of specific guidance by region or by country or by product.
But what I would tell you is if you look at US and Europe increased spending construction spending is not the main driver.
The main driver for increases in the developed world today that would be both the US and Europe is essentially customers just having to replace some machines kind of post in the US 2006 2007 highs and in Europe late 2008 and early 2007 highs.
They have really just cut back replacement spending dramatically.
And so I think most of the increase that were going to see in both the US and Europe.
And in fact that we are seeing today even amid what is terrible construction spending.
I mean look at the housing market its terrible.
The sales increases which are quite healthy are mostly related to replacements.
Okay.
So the 10% to 20% embeds minimals any real underlying growth in the developed markets?  Yeah in the developing world there is enough economic growth that fleet sizes are going up construction spending is going up.
So I think outside  in the developing world real construction spending should be a positive.
In the developed world its mostly replacements.
Okay thats helpful.
Think to give you a feel for we used dealer rental fleets in the US as kind of a proxy of where customer fleets are.
And if you look at dealer rental fleets today there is still levels down in the area of the last trough the02 03 timeframe.
And on average that equipment is 30% over.
And so there is a really good pent up replacement demand that is yet to play out.
And then its one of the reasons were continuing to make some of the investments in capital that were making.
Great.
And then a real quick follow-up.
Cap financial in the quarter you had a $145 million of profits on revenue of $693 million 21% margin in the second quarter it was like $172 million and $695 million 25% margin.
Another earning assets were down about 1.5% sequentially but could you just walk us through the other dynamics on the sequential basis would have reduced operating profits.
Yeah.
I mean I think this is Mike.
If you look at Cat Financial I think their results have been quite consistent I think in the second quarter I think they lowered their allowance reserve and there was a little benefit in there from that.
I dont think that was as much as in the third quarter but I think relatively speaking their kind of underlying operating performance pretty similar.
Its been actually good I mean past dues are improving kind of down just over 3.5% now Cat Finanicals have been doing a pretty good job.
Got it.
Best of luck this quarter guys.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Robert McCarthy.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi its Robert W.
Baird.
Good morning guys.
Hey Rob.
I wanted to ask about the growth in dealer inventory 1.1 billion at six months now 1.8 billion doesnt really look like its on a track to slow down in terms of its growth in the second half of the year relative to the first which had been  whats you have been talking about a quarter ago.
I mean maybe Im splitting hairs but it seems to me that there is some benefit being recognized through the development of through development of the lean strategy so my question although a little bit difficult to define it goes to the flavor of are you seeing the impact really in terms of control of dealer inventory that you expect to see at this point and can we look for a much slower rate and I mean relative to your own revenue growth can we look for a much slower rate of inventory increases in 2012? Hey Rob this is Ed in months of sales perspective you really see dealer inventory get back closer to what we would consider kind of a normal months of sales.
If you look at the growth in terms of the quarterly move in terms of dealer inventory I think about 40% of that was related to mining and thats not inventory thats just up its in transit being getting ready if you would for the delivery to an end-user.
If you look at the fourth quarter you know our view of fourth quarter would be dealer inventory would be in kind of the flat-to-down slightly type range get towards the end of the year you usually have it you got some benefits of things like accelerated depreciation so I think youll see a trend flat-to-down slightly for the balance of the year.
And then with a normalizing from the months of sales perspective I think little bit going forward would be inline with the revenue growth.
Okay and my other question goes to EMDs performance I realize you know relative to the entire company is quite small but I think you know we are very excited about the longer term opportunity there and I was struck by the fact that you had some nice revenue growth but a decline in earnings in terms of year-on-year comparison I wonder if were seeing some ongoing call it restructuring and integration expenses that are constraining profit improvement there or if thats not the case when should we expect to see a more healthy rate of profit improvement?  Yeah this is Mike I think one of things thats going on with EMD right now is they are kind of caught between two worlds what they are shipping and selling right now is still at a pretty depressed level their expectations for 012 013 and 014 are much better they are worried about capacity.
The result of that is theyve added a fairly sizable new facility in Monsey Indiana.
Theyve actually been getting that ready so its been quite a bit a cost I think related primarily to Monsey to a lesser degree some capacity expansion done in Brazil.
So I think its a case where theyre seeing a strengthening order backlog and they are trying to get capacity in place to do that.
And thats causing something right now.
Solid investments spending in everywhere.
Yeah.
And when you were talking about the Bucyrus service centre transactions and when we might see that were even tending for us to come away not expecting any of those transactions to be announced before the end of the year.
No I think wed love to get wed love to get some of them done this year all I was trying to leave you with this.
We never  we never intended that they would all be done this year.
Then we are focusing on the really big ones first.
But yeah wed love to get a couple done this year.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Good morning.
Its Goldman Sachs.
On your money equipment business Mike can you say more about incremental manufacturing capacity expansion youre considering and also can you give us an update on your progress on purchasing an aftermarket penetration on the Bucyrus business?  Remember the second part of that question because after Im done with the first one I might forget it.
So hang on to that.
What was the first part again?  Sure any updated thoughts on incremental manufacturing capacity and mining broadly?  Oh yeah yeah yeah sorry.
My memory is short this morning.
Yeah I mean weve been I use mining trucks a lot as a proxy because mining trucks larger mining trucks are the biggest opportunity in mining historically for us for the CAT brand.
We've fairly dramatically increased production as we've gone throughout the year.
Early in this year we were I think I don't remember the month but some point in the first quarter we kind of got back to the '08 peak levels.
And we're going to probably end the year something in the range of at least for larger mining trucks half again as much.
And the idea with the mining truck expansion was that by the time we got to early '13 it would have been doubled from that prior level.
So for mining trucks there is more to come.
There are other parts of mining which we're also trying to increase.
Underground mining there's a new factory going into Taiwan.
So there is quite a long backlog right now in underground mining hard rock mining equipment so that'll good.
Were trying to get more production out on large bulldozers as well.
So I guess what I would tell you is the plans that we have in place we're executing but particularly on large mining trucks it's going to be in bulldozers.
It will be tight as we go throughout next year better than this year but probably still tight.
And Mike can you relieve the same discussion on the Bucyrus assets particularly the hydraulic excavators there? Yeah hydraulic excavators it would be very much the same as we look at that manufacturing footprint Jerry this is it.
The other one on your question about the product support side and what were seeing on Bucyrus; Id say as we got into it we continue to see a lot of upside opportunity.
A big part of capturing that upside opportunity is going to be getting the dealers and sort it into this process because a lot of that replacement part demand they can they are already setup on the mining sites to be able to execute that and so its just a question of getting the flow of the parts through it.
If you look at another part of capturing the parts side of the business on Bucyrus longer term its the integration of our components into that product and were working that hard but its got a little bit longer shelf life in terms of getting that done.
And then the last thing we think we can add some good value with our logistics capability in terms of moving those parts around the world.
So going in we felt one of the real upside opportunities was capturing more of the aftermarket on Bucyrus.
Id say our early view is that view was correct.
Okay and as you have discussions with your mining customers and their CapEx plans; can you talk about the range of budget increases you expect to see out of them? And can you touch on which regions and commodities you expect to drive orders for your business over that time period?  Jerry at this point in time the indications form the mining companies are theyre going to continue to invest.
And youve seen it with the public announcements theyve made and youve heard it in coal and at least at this point in time the indications.
If you really look at the lack of new capacity coming on board for the last number of years and you look at the urbanization thats happening and kind of the long-term view of demand I think the mining companies have decided theyre going to invest through this period of uncertainty and thats definitely helping our business.
Thank you.
Thanks Jerry Thank you.
The next question is coming from Henry Kirn.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Good morning guys its UBS.
Hey Henry.
Hey Henry.
Im wondering if you could talk about where the remaining supply chain pinch points are most pressing and have you seen any discernible margin drags coming out of the supply chain? You know I guess I would describe the supply chains issues right now was in some areas as tight but manageable you know tires somewhat tight but manageable steel castings kind of the same thing.
I mentioned before one of the places where we use a lot of large steel castings is in frames for mining trucks.
Weve done a good job our suppliers have done a good job in ramping up but its still pretty tight.
Outside of that I dont Im not aware of any some specialty steels here and there but in general I think its Id describe it as in some areas tight but manageable and not many sort of system-wide problems that Ive heard off.
And with all of the headlines on Europe over the last few months could you talk about how that market trended during the third quarter and may be some of the demand thoughts that are baked into your guidance for 2012? Yeah well in a lot of ways Europe is similar to US you know the economic indicators has not been most robust but much of our business in the developed world again its replacement oriented most of what we sell in the US and Europe in any given year was largely forward replacements and so thats driving that business.
There are sales; we dont break it out separately but we show Europe Africa and Middle East; and I think excluding Bucyrus region was up 41%.
Of course the AME part of it the Africa and Middle East part was up more than Europe but Europe is behaving in a lot of ways similar to the US up on replacements and at some point down the road its certainly not in our expectations for 12 but maybe beyond that these economies will grow more or will get some housing start some commercial construction and then we will have real growth it will drive the next way.
Thanks a lot.
Good quarter.
The next question is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Regarding the profitability for the company just trying to think through 12 a little bit.
The last couple quarters even if you pull out Bucyrus the gross margins have been down year-over-year.
And that looks like one of the key reasons is price versus manufacturing cost the last couple quarters the price realizations has been a lot lower than the Dragon Manufacturing.
So keep things to a little bit the pricing dynamic and how you are thinking about that relationship? And then I have a follow up kind of related to those manufacturing cost? Yeah this is Mike and this is certainly no change in direction.
We would expect that this year would be somewhere in the ballpark of 1% and in fact thats roughly what we had in this quarter.
Were driving the company to get margin improvement and incremental margins like we have this year without doing it on the back of high price.
Were trying to drive the CAT business model modest price increases lets say kind of inline with our cost inflation and then drive incrementals through efficiency.
Weve done a pretty good of doing that so far this year.
I think if you look forward I dont see us again we dont have any profit guidance for next year but what I just described was kind of an essence what Doug strategy is and so I dont see that dramatically changing.
The price increases that we announced for machines for next year the vast majority were between zero and three which its fairly consistent with this year.
So I would say at least in terms of price we didnt give you an average total all in weighted average expectation for next year but our strategy is modest increases drive efficiency and get margin through that.
And Id probably wouldnt see that changing.
I appreciate thats taking through Doug youre right now trying to balance gain share in the aftermarket opportunity and thus may be not pushing prices much as in prior years.
Looking for areas where you can get the gross margins from next year up not down year-over-year; the $330 million this quarter manufacturing costs that were up well lets pull out the short-term incentive comps which obviously when that goes up thats a positive thing right these are obviously for hitting good target.
So if you pull that out the $255 million increase its about 240 250 BEPs of gross margin drag.
How much of that is simply raw materials where obviously we can try to hedge that out or just see how it plays that on input cost and how much is that structural fixed costs because of all the capacity expansions I have to assume it would be there again next year.
Yeah Dave when you are talking gross margin drag you have to be a little bit careful because we do our analysis on a period and variable basis.
So when you are looking at gross margin that does include period costs and so I think when youre looking at our gross margin performance I think if you were to take out the acquisitions and the impact of currency you would see our gross margin not being negative but being actually better year-over-year.
So I think as you look forward again our goal on period manufacturing cost is to keep the growth rate in period manufacturing costs which is the biggest contributor to the 340 to keep it at less than half a rate of sales growth and if we do that that helps increase gross margin.
Okay I will follow up with you.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Its Doug here.
On a broader view of this I think that quarterly and certainly the year-to-date 11 over 10 and now the outlook that weve put out for 11 over 10 or right where we wanted to be in terms of our strategic alignment in 2012 and 2015.
And we have always said you know that our goal here is a 25% pull through overtime and weve hit that in some quarters and some quarters we havent but were pretty done close year-to-date 2011 over 10.
And thats exactly what we expect going forward in terms of the strategic gearing of the company were still going through that.
Market share is the driver balanced with profits at a 25% pull through with our goals out in 2015 and I absolutely believe if we dissect the numbers or not the third quarter and year-to-date put us right on track where we want to be and I  were off as a management team pretty happy with the progress on that.
Long ways to go weve got lots of the capital investments to make but there are seven million people on the planet that want to live like that most developed countries do and thats driving the needs for a lot of infrastructure our natural resources and so on and we are going to be in a position to take advantage of that and thats part of the balance we make in terms of market share versus profit overtime.
Good.
Next question The next question is coming from Seth Weber.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks good morning.
Its RBC.
Hey Seth.
LLC</strong> Hey.
I just wanted to drill down a little bit.
There is a comment in the release about some unfavorable pricing or unfavorable mix in the construction equipment business.
I guess two parts is that a regional issue I mean does that reflect some aggressive pricing in China and I guess should that get better next year if the US and the developed markets start to improve.
Well in terms of construction overall I would say both in from a product standpoint and geographic sort of country standpoint.
Country mix has been through (inaudible) much of the year slightly negative and you would see that in terms of price.
I mean we dont for the same product in different areas of the world it sells for different price levels and we have commented on that I think through out the year that that thats been slightly negative.
From a product standpoint weve had some pretty healthy increases in the small and to the product line.
Other products like excavators and some of the larger product weve been fairly supply constraint.
So product mix has been slightly negative.
Its not a huge deal either show the geographic mix impact on price or the product impact on margin.
Its been a slight negative but nothing overall too significant.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
And then I guess just a clarification is the mining business fully booked for 2012 at this point?  When you say fully booked in mining business I would say for the most part werebased on what we see right now will be capacity constrained on most products during the year but its hard to say everything all year long.
I mean if you are a mining customer you might need a 320 excavator to do some clean up around a pile so that would be mining but it's not a mining product per se.
So for the most part I think the answer is were pretty well sold out but its probably not a 100% on everything.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But fair to say you are not getting any request for delivery push outs or cancellations or anything like that.
No it continues to be a very strong business.
The customers seem to have quite a bit of conviction.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great thanks very much guys.
Longbow Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Eli.
Just one quick clarification you talked about inventory levels that dealers are being sort of back up to normal months is that true around the world or can you talk to me to believe that inventory levels are backward dealers with license to see at this point in time.
Well we didnt exactly say it's what dealers would like to see them what we said was theyre kind of back to a historical average.
So yeah and its actually I looked at the numbers kind of by region and its some of them maybe are little over and some that are still maybe a little under but surprisingly all four major regions of the world are fairly close to historical averages right now.
During the quarter if you look at dealer inventory we had more of a gain in inventory in Asia but in a lot of ways thats not surprising.
Once we had kind of enough supply to more closely match demand it had been the region that it had been further under.
So yeah it doesnt like there are any out wires if you will.
I mean you dont have one region thats 40% higher and one region thats 40% lower there is some reasonable consistency.
And as far as youre pricing for 2012 you talked about 0% to 3% but you had a second component for IT poor pricing for most machines.
And I got to believe that you had a lot across in 2011 that werent recovered as you converted over.
So I mean are we looking at 2012 you know pricing out of (inaudible) T4 being more of a lesser impact from the cost of conversion than we had in 2012?  Well two things Eli bring up a good point you know what a customer sees in terms of price is a lot higher than what were reporting as price realization because you have things like Tier 4 where there is actually added content and when we look at like the Tier 4 or Stage IIIB where the actual content of product changes were netting off the cost but there was no big windfall no big drag in 2011.
I mean the price increases on average Im sure it vary by model but overall you know Tier 4 has more than recovered its cost this year.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just Mike quickly anything I think people are trying to get at this but unusual as you think about your top line forecast with regards to mix that we should consider which could have implications for incremental margins.
And then last well have you done any last time when you were going to downtown you guys were proactive in going out to the dealers and saying you can cancel orders.
I mean have we done anything in terms of I guess scrubbing scrubbing the backlog just given the macro uncertainty?  I'll start with the first one on mix.
I cant think of anything thats on top of my head here that's that's way out of line.
I think our view as we look into next year is that mining will continue to improve construction will continue to improve its fairly broad-based.
I'm sure when it's all settled down therell be some mix impact but kind of given the level of sales change that we're talking about and the idea that is actually fairly broad-based  it'll be hard to see huge mix shifts in that.
And in terms of the backlog when you go back at this point in time in 2008 there was a situation and actually from here on in 2000 there was a situation where dealers kind of stopped ordering and it made you question the backlog and I think we did the right thing by opening up the order book back then to let it be cleared out.
We don't have that situation now.
Dealers are ordering more.
I mean as youd go throughout the third quarter dealers ordered more from us than we sold to them in the third quarter and consistently in the third quarter.
So you never know what's going to happen down the road.
We don't have a crystal ball but it's been pretty good solid consistent growth.
I just want to add in here.
We get questions almost daily our own employees outsiders you name it the situation seems like 2008 all over again.
And while it does in some cases on a macro level specific to the European banking situation it bares a little resemblance internally at Caterpillar II this time or even going back to mid 2008.
You recall that when late 08 hit DCP our building construction products group around home building had been in a (inaudible) for over two years of that point in time.
And as Mike said dealer order rates were coming down all through 2008 and thats one of the reasons we said what we said in the fall of 2008 about a recession coming.
We are not saying that today.
I would love to say we see a boom coming but we dont see that.
We see a slow growth recovery here that it should be a lot better than it is has been confounded by some policy missteps around the world in the last few months.
Having said that we do not hear anecdotally from customers or dealers that there is less work at this moment than there was a year ago.
We heard that all through 2008 as their backlog shriveled and withered away we do not hear that today and thats one of the reasons weve talked about that in our outlook statement for the rest of 2011.
We may hear it tomorrow we may hear it next month but right now its very dissimilar to this period in 2008 and were looking for a slow growth recovery and this is exactly as we said in the outlook going on into 2012 which at this moment looks pretty good for our business.
All right.
Thanks and Ill get back in queue.
I think we are at the top of the hour now so well stop here.
Thank you all for joining us on the call today and well talk to you again in three months.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Results.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open up the floor for your questions and comments folloing the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Caterpillars year-end 2011 earnings call.
I am Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
I am pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and our Group President and CFO Ed Rapp with us on the call today.
This call is copyright by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript we will be posting it in the Investor section of our caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we will be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22 of 2011 and also in our forward-looking statements language contained in todays release.
Okay.
Earlier this morning we were very pleased to report fourth quarter results that capped off a record breaking year in 2011.
To start this morning Ill cover the headlines.
For the fourth quarter sales and revenues were $17.2 billion the highest quarter in our history and profit was $2.32 a share also an all-time record for any quarter in company history.
And it was a record for sales and profit whether or not you include Bucyrus.
For the full year sales were about $60 billion and profit was $7.40 a share.
The year was also a record topping the previous record of 2008 which was $51 billion at the top line and profit for share of $5.66.
The other big headline this morning was the outlook for 2012 and we have raised our guidance for sales and revenues to a range of $68 billion to $72 billion with a midpoint of $70 billion.
That midpoint is up about $3 billion from the midpoint of the preliminary outlook for 2012 that we provided with our third quarter financial release last October.
Now those were the three big headlines of the day the quarter the full year and the outlook.
Now I would like to just take a few minutes and go through some of our noteworthy accomplishments in 2011 then well cover the high points of our 2012 outlook and will finish the call by taking your questions.
2011 was a great for Cat probably the most positive in the 30 plus years of my career here.
While the financial results in and of themselves were outstanding we had a great year in a number of areas that along with the better industry growth that we saw was a foundation of our financial success this year.
The first area of highlighted acquisitions and in terms of executing our strategy it was a pretty high profile item.
Over the past year and a half we made three large ones Bucyrus EMD and MWM.
Integrating them into Cat has been a high priority for us and a big focus in 2011 and while there is still much to do were very pleased with the progress so far.
In terms of Cat operations our success this year had much to do with the discipline of a Cat production system its becoming a way of life at Caterpillar and its been the foundation that drove improvements in safety quality velocity and efficiency in 2011.
The safety of our workforce contractors and visitors is fundamental to our values and were pleased that our enterprise safety improved again in 2011 and are now 83% better than 2003.
Quality its a big reason why customers buy Cat equipment.
Its critical to the Cat business model and its another benefit that weve seen from the Cat production system.
It has been a big focus for us and Im pleased to report that in 2011 we continued another year of better product reliability for our customers.
Given the sizeable increase in demand we experienced in 2011 we stretch our factories and our suppliers to produce more.
The results were outstanding and we were able to significantly increase production and do it while we improve the quality.
In fact we would like to take this opportunity right now to say thank you to our suppliers.
With their help in 2011 this was the highest year-over-year increase in sales in our history and on a percentage basis; it was the most significant year-over-year increase since 1947.
Now in addition to our investment and acquisitions we invested significantly in organic growth.
For many products demand has above our ability to produce we have invested in Caterpillar factories in the United States and around the world to increase production.
Despite those increases and continuing investment in 2012 where we are expecting CapEx to be up about 50% and near $4 billion were still very tight on many products and are currently quoted extended delivery times for some of them.
As an example for many models of large trucks we are now quoting delivery times into 2014.
In 2011 we started significant product introductions for Tier 4 in the United States and for similar new omissions requirement in Europe.
Its the most extensive new product introduction program in our history and it went well in 2011 and feedback from dealers and customers on the new product has been very positive.
Another important part of the Cat business model is customer support and the availability of after market parts is one of the key ways to do that.
We are pleased to report that in 2011 we made notable improvements in parts availability to raise the bar on product support for customers.
We also improved our competitive position in 2011 while it was a year of growth from the industries we serve it was an even better year for Cat.
In the aggregate and for most of our products sales increased at a faster rate than the overall industries we serve.
Better quality the delivery performance our investments and capacity the performance of our suppliers coupled with modest price increases all helped drive better value for customers and a better competitive position for Caterpillar.
To sum up 2011 record profit record sales the most significant percentage increase in sales when Harry Truman was President.
The addition of two important strategic in acquisitions better quality a good start with Tier 4 good profit leverage on the increase in sales record operating cash flow an increase to the dividend and a strong balance sheet thats 2011 in that show.
With that lets turn to the 2012 outlook.
For 2012 were expecting another record year with sales and revenues in a range of $68 billion to $72 billion and profit of about $9.25 at the midpoint of that sales range.
Overall we believe the prospects for global growth have improved since we released our preliminary sales outlook last October.
Were forecasting the world economy to grow at about 3.3% in 2012 a small improvement from 2011.
In the United States we expect the Federal Reserve will maintain the funds rate below 25 basis points throughout 2012.
And recent economic data suggest that growth improved in the fourth quarter of 2011 which we believe reflects the positive impact of the Feds easing that initiated in late 2010.
And its our view that the full impact of those actions hasnt materialized yet and that theyll contribute to continue growth in 2012.
Our outlook assumes economic growth in the United States of at least 3%.
We expect total US construction spending which has depressed for years to finally begin to show some improvement in 2012.
Were forecasting small improvements in infrastructure related and non-residential construction and our forecast for housing starts is around 700 000 units in 2012 and thats up from about 600 000 in 2011.
While we expect the small improvements in US construction spending remember its still depressed.
Housing starts at 700 000 is still very low and there is no long term broad or infrastructure spending plan thats been improved in Washington yet.
In the Euro zone the public debt crisis has been a lingering negative but we dont expect it to trigger a worldwide recession.
The Euro zone will likely have at least two quarters of weak and possibly negative growth but we think it will begin to improve in the second half of the year.
We expect the Japanese economy to grow at about 3.5% in 2012 recovering from their 2011 recession.
We think that rebuilding from the tsunami and more expansionary central bank policies will help drive their improvement.
We expect economic growth in Asia Pacific above 6.5% in 2012 about the same as in 2011.
In China our forecast is for economic growth of about 8.5%.
China took its first easing action in late 2011 and we expect that further easing will continue in 2012.
Growth in Latin America is expected to slow from about 4.3% in 2011 to up 4% in 2012.
And then Africa Middle East were forecasting growth of nearly 5.5% and over 5% in the CIS.
Overall we expect that the worlds economic growth will be enough to drive some higher demand for commodities and support commodity prices that continue at levels to encourage investment.
In terms of Caterpillar sales we expect increases in 2012 in all four of our geographic regions and for almost all the industries we serve.
Were starting the year with a strong order backlog thats almost $30 billion and up 37% from the end of 2010 and thats on an apples-to-apples basis excluding our Bucyrus acquisition.
In 2012 well have a full year of sales related to our Bucyrus and MWM acquisitions and sales for those two are expected to be about $6 billion and thats an increase from $2.6 billion in 2011 which was a partial for both at Cat.
We expect mining to continue to grow globally and we have a strong order backlog for mining equipment.
We expect mining sales to increase in 2012 and are in the process of adding additional capacity for many of our products.
However we do expect mining related sales to be constrained by capacity in 2012.
We anticipate the sales of new machines for construction in the developed countries will improve as customers continue rebuild fleets during 2012 and that historically high fleet age and low fleet inventories will cause dealers to continue to upgrade world fleets.
Despite the economic trouble in the Euro zone all European dealers increased orders over the past few months compared with 2010.
Considering the relatively weak sales level there over the past few years and the need for customers to replace machines were expecting machine sales in Europe to be half or above the 2011 levels despite the economic climate in Europe.
Government policy easing in China which has already started is expected to continue and lead to some recovery machine sales in 2011.
Were forecasting higher sales for our power systems and segment in most industries.
High oil prices should encourage investment and improve demand for engines and turbines used in oil and gas application we also expect improvement in engine sales for electric power generation and higher sales in our rail business.
The only area of our power systems business that hasnt started to recover yet is marine engines.
Coming to profit at the midpoint of our sales and revenues outlook we expect profit to increase from $7.40 in 2011 to $9.25 in 2012 and thats a 25% increase.
Bucyrus should move from being a negative to profit in 2011 and that was a result of the deal related to integration cost to being a positive contributor in 2012.
While there are certainly headwinds and tailwinds as we move from 2011 to 2012 operationally on balance were expecting that excluding the impacts of MWM and Bucyrus there are incremental operating profit pull through on incremental sales should be similar to 2011.
The most significant headwind were expecting next year or this year in 2012 was tax expense.
In 2011 taxes were 25.6 above the full tax profit.
And that was the combination of an overall rate of about 27% last discrete favorable tax items during the year.
In 2012 were forecasting a range of about 30% and taxes are up for three main reasons.
Negative geographic mix from a tax perspective absence of the favorable discrete items that we had in 2011 and the end of the R&amp;D tax credit in the United States.
Two final points before we move to the Q&amp;A portion of todays call.
And the first is the bold gold (ph) that we introduced back in August of 2009 and that was at sales and revenues would approach $60 billion and profit per share would be $8 to $10 in 2012.
Well we hit that 2012 sales and revenues target in 2011 a year early.
And even excluding Bucyrus MWM and EMD we would be at about $56 billion this year however we did not hit that $8 to $10 profit range.
Weve had a number of questions from investors on whats different now versus what we were assuming in that 2012 target.
And weve summarized in a somewhat lengthy Q&amp;A in this mornings press release and that starts page 24.
But in a nutshell what it says is that if you start with our 2011 actual profit of $7.40 a share and you adjust it for acquisitions in our share count and our share count is higher because we invested in three large acquisitions rather than buying back shares.
If you adjust from fully incentive compensation that was well above target in 2011 because of our excellent results if you adjust for currency impacts and taxes you exclude those items wed have been near the middle of that $8 to $10 profit range on sales and revenues of about $56 billion.
And again I would encourage you to take a look at the Q&amp;A in this mornings release.
My final point today is on employment.
Our global workforce continued to increase in 2011 and we hired.
We were up over 14 000 at year end 2011 versus 2010 and that excludes acquisitions and we end up more than 33 000 since year end 2009.
2011 was a great year the outlook for 2012 have improved and as you might expect were eager to talk to you more about it.
So with that were ready to take questions.
Hi good morning its JP Morgan.
Good morning Anne.
My first question would be on Bucyrus orders it sounds slightly sequentially $4.2 billion to $4.1 billion maybe you could just take a step and tell us whats going on fundamentally Bucyrus customers is there any risk that slowdown in demand from US thermal coil or just some color on whats going on there or its a 0.1 of a billion just noise? Well here is the deal Anne for Bucyrus actually if you look from third to fourth quarter the order rate went up quite nicely at Bucyrus.
That said they just had a fantastic fourth quarter in terms of shipments and the shipments were well above what we expect.
So orders are actually up sequentially pretty nicely its just that they really clearly did a great job in shipping in the fourth quarter.
So that 0.1 decline in the backlog I think had more to do with how good a job they did in the fourth quarter shipping rather any change in order rate.
That said our view of mining is quite bullish the comments that I made and kind of the preamble there this is not specifically Bucyrus but weve got to add more capacity were going to be constrained this year.
I mean on some of those big trucks for example.
Were quoting delivery times now out in 2014.
So now mining is good.
Okay thats helpful.
On that note just sticking with Bucyrus you announced the sale of some distribution businesses to Finning.
Can you help us in any way shape or form in terms of how we should think about that for our 2012 and go-forward model how much more is there to do post Finning what do you think the impact would be on EBIT anything you can do to help us from a modeling perspective we would appreciate it? Yeah no I understand that.
Thats been a very calming question and I do admit weve not been able to be overly helpful on that.
Here is what I would tell you we actually closed one of the dealers the sales of distribution businesses to the dealers in the fourth quarter and there are many there are in various stages of being in profit today.
Your comment about Finning has been announced others were talking with the dealers were trying to get sorted and done but of course arent done yet.
That will happen throughout the year just because of the sheared number of them.
Were talking about involving more than 50 dealers here.
Were probably not going to be done this year were trying really hard and we hope to get most of the big ones done this year.
That impact of the whole deal on our profit overall we dont think it will be very significant this year one way or the other.
Part of that has to do with the timing of when theyre getting done.
There is also a potential gain or loss impact which we dont think will be big during the year the impact of transactions themselves.
Our intangible amortization is going to go down some as we stall them because the dealers are acquiring some of the intangibles.
So its a little bit of a moving target but at this point it doesnt look like it will be very significant to 2012.
and then remember as we do this well bringing cash in 2012.
Thats fair.
Just a very final point of clarification in that.
Is it only the surface after market that will get sold or might there be some underground asset ? Everything the intent is everything above ground below ground.
Okay I appreciate that.
Thank you Ill get back in line.
Thanks.
With Buckingham Research.
Im surprised; Im usually the last one or not even on there.
Just two questions I noticed in the commentary on your press release you broke down some of the sources of that $12.5 billion revenue growth inventory Bucyrus some of the other acquisitions.
I wondered if you could give us a little bit of a sense on the operating profit side you did say that MWM and Bucyrus didnt contribute much on operating profit but how about the currency impact and also the inventory build? This is Doug Oberhelman Joel.
Are you talking about the fourth quarter versus fourth quarter of the year or the outlook? The whole year.
So of that $12.5 billion if you try to take out just say inventory was kind of a one-time catch up right and you take out some of the acquisitions as we go forward like you can underlying growth Im trying to get and so underlying growth was maybe 12.5% or 13% if you take some of those things out and Im trying to figure out what the underlying growth in operating profit just to sort of normalize for a basis for 2012 and 13? Yeah now youre getting 12% or 13% I mean we had $60 billion in sales.
Bucyrus and MWM were I think 2.6 of that.
So sort of roughly 57.5 without those two.
I think the impact of currency if memory serves me was about $800 million so youre at 56  build was I think order magnitude $2.5 billion.
So I mean were at sort 42 to 54 which is 20% excluding all those items more than 20% about close to 25.
I will pursue it offline.
Can you talk about the pension any change in the discount rate what does that mean for after 2012? Yeah Joel this is Ed.
The discount rate went down as we had anticipated we took a hit to OCI of just $2 billion and in spite of that finished debt capped at 42.7 and really think about it taken in the last 18 months more than $10 billion plus a hit based on pension and to stay within our target range in terms of debt cap and it shows just how good at the year we had on overall cashbook.
Right.
Okay beautiful thank you.
Wells Fargo Securities good morning everyone.
Hi Andrew.
Just a question I guess back on the cash flow you had a really good year Im just wondering about any change in seasonality that we should think about I mean Q4 was down a little bit on an operating cash flow just for the quarter itself.
But the first three quarter were excellent.
So is there a change with business mix and how youre thinking about investments that we should consider? Hi Andy this is Doug.
I think in terms of investments weve outlined its kind of that industry attracted in a strategic fit a lot of good opportunities for organic growth and I think on the acquisition side were clearly focused on full integration of EMD MWM and Bucyrus.
I think on the cash flow if you really think about the result of 2011 we had some really good year-over-year improvement scenarios like receivables and payables and I dont you can anticipate that kind of improvement year-over-year again and its kind of driving it to what we think are some pretty good levels.
The real opportunity on the cash flow on into 2012 will be to continue to deploy the Cat production system align with our suppliers and through that do a better job on inventory turns.
Id say that would be the area that I give lot of focus as we go into 2012.
Okay thanks for that.
And just one follow up on the acquisition activity youve done a lot relative to your history in the last few years your comment on focusing on the acquisitions that youve made should we just pretty much expect organic growth and inorganic growth to come from whats already been done or should we have to anticipate there are holes that you may want to fill in 12? Andy I think its always hard to speculate and what may come in the M&amp;A space but as we talked in the past the acquisitions that make the most sense for us are the ones that bolt on to existing parts of our business.
EMD really added to a great real services business which gives us an ending real business MWM was a great bolt on to have to build our engine platform on gas and Bucyrus was a big bolt I mean it was really a perfect build out of our mining business.
I would anticipate us to spend a lot of time in 2012 getting those fully integrated.
On top of the $4 billion that weve talked about relative to and of organic investment in capacity we got a lot going on in 2012 were going to be focused to get that done.
Yeah I will pile on a little bit Oberhelman here.
As we sit here today the strategy that we see for the next three or four years does not we do not have any big holes to fill and the idea of absolute execution on both our organic growth which is going to be a significantly bigger factor I think and what our acquisitions have been and any new acquisitions is really going to be the focus and we get that right we will have no problem with our 2015 numbers at all.
So were really going to spend some time on that having said that weve got probably dozens I would say of smaller acquisitions in mine kind pre 09 pre-2010 for Caterpillar that were always looking at.
We would bolt as Ed said and I think those would compliment our business.
But where were headed for 2015 we basically have our arms around today we intend to deliver that ploy.
Okay thank you very much.
LLC.</strong> Its Vertical Research Partners and good morning everybody.
My question is you had some real positive signs in the production system with the safety and some of the things you talked about in the press release and youve had phenomenal demand.
I just wanted to ask if youre seeing any hiccups or whether the production system is working just as well as you thought the inventory returns you mentioned are you seeing increased throughput on fixed asset and can that help in addition to the CapEx where youre going.
Really just wanted to feel what do you think is feeling like CBS? This is Mike Ill start that one out Rob.
Cat production system has been very successful weve talked about this all along has been more than just hey were trying to get labor efficiency out of that hit.
Its the whole flow within the factory.
For example I think during this year if it wasnt for Cap production system I dont think we could have got the volume out of the plants that we did.
If you look at our delivery performance to customers today the lead times if you will.
Theyre not fantastically short but I think given the how much volume weve added how much more product that were shipping to have them kind of those sort of historic levels at this part of the ramp up sets volumes about how well Cat production has got.
So if I would characterize it overall and Im sure you can pick some factories or even section of the factories where the results have been better or worse.
But I think overall I think with the possible exception of actual inventory returns all the metrics are good.
Its by and large doing what we hoped it would do expected it will do when we started down this path and we really needed it.
I mean this is just an observation.
One of the comments that I made in the kind of lead in was a comparison.
I understand that we lead our previous record.
Go back and think about 2008.
Our sales in 2008 were $51 billion this year our sales excluding the acquisitions were probably $58 billion if you take out EMD and MWM and Bucyrus and excluding acquisitions our profit was in that I think excluding Bucyrus was 779.
And if you adjust for price the overall volume is not that different than 2008 but our profit is much better and I think its all from operational improvements as we ramp backup weve done a great job in holding the line on fixed cost growth weve got more production out of the factories weve had good incremental margin pull through.
So I think Cat production is a big contributor to that.
Sorry that was a long winded soapbox to your question.
LLC.</strong> No no thats great.
Its sounds like its not on your top worries.
Theres nothing getting tangled up.
So thats great given the demand out there.
Just a quick end-market question is there any issue with demand for solar I think theyve had year-after-year year-after-year record performance with gas prices and maybe volumes being lower in the US and also the pipeline compression is as strong.
So just any comment on solar and demand? Solar and demand was good it was on a record year this year theyre going into 2012 with a very good order book its just called above average order cover its a good business around the world.
I mean not just in the US and if you think about it a lot of the needs in oil and gas area right now are basically getting in the oil patch getting more oil out of existing wells.
Just as an example I know solar has big orders from a large existing customer on a project to do gas injection to a well to get more output of oil.
So solar business is good theyre starting the year with pretty good order cover and theyre pretty optimistic about 2012.
LLC.</strong> Great thanks Mike.
ISI good morning.
My question is about the incremental margins for 2012 on a core basis not to be greedy but you would think if a lot of things working for you in 2012 versus 2011 that you might be able to do better incremental in 2012 and 2011.
Your price costs in 2011 were the negative $400 million.
Your incentive comp and I know that can change if guidance goes up.
As we sit here today the incentive comp is going to be less of the drag in 2012 than it was in 2011.
Your CapEx was up in 2011 versus 2010 so trying to jump in CapEx in 2012 is radical change from the higher depreciation you had observed in 2011 and the currency was negative $400 million or so on on an evil line in 2011.
So I guess try to talk me down on why your incremental should not be better in 2012 than 2011 what am I missing? Just a couple of things in first half what we have in the outlook is incrementals that are very consistent with 2011 and I tell you this its easier to get higher incrementals the larger your volume increase.
I said as many times I can squeeze in that weve had the best volume increase on a percentage basis in 2011 since Truman was President.
Now we got another good year of growth built in for 2012 but its not the scale of volume increase that we had to determine our percentage basis in 2011.
So I think the volume not being up as much as probably a little bit of a headwind.
One of the things we mentioned this morning in the release was R&amp;D we are looking for about a 15% increase in R&amp;D next year.
We have high depreciation we had a $4 billion capital planning for next year plus well have a full year of impact on the $2.6 billion that we have spent this year.
So depreciation is going to be up.
Related to that $4 billion it requires a fair bit of expense to get that implemented so that will be a little bit of drag.
So there are pluses and minuses the things you mentioned are definitely pluses incentive comp at target which is where we started out the year in the outlook is a tailwind without a doubt.
Currency we wouldnt expect to be quite so bad as it was in 2011.
So to your point thats a tailwind as well.
But I think a smaller volume increase and just the added cost around depreciation implementation of the new capacity in some more R&amp;D now those are probably the headwinds.
Do you have a specific price cost baked in relationship for 2012 that may be that will tell that into about the Tier 4 issue and how you feel youre coping those costs for 2012 and any sense of pull forward people buying in front of that.
Yeah I think for Tier 4 we as in 2011 the difference between the price and oil cost is not material one way or the other its been margin neutral at least.
So thats not the big drag for us thats the implementation Tier 4 just on particularly compared with Tier 3 superbly well.
Feedback from dealers is good no major hiccups in the factory so Tier 4 has been very good.
I would just add here David that we are now essentially onto our 2015 goals and taking steps to get there and everything Mike said the big step up in CapEx the substantial step up in R&amp;D the price cost relationship being relatively to lead to our market share goal in 2015 are all aimed at steps in Tier 12 13 and 14 to get there.
This is one step along the way.
Weve got to invest to meet those goals.
In 12 we will some of that its a balance.
I would also say that we look at 2011 as achieving to 2012 goals that we laid out to all of you in 2009 that is in the rear view mirror.
As Mike took you through that reconciliation its also in the report we feel like we did pretty well particularly in August of 09 when the world was ending by the best estimations at that point in time.
We put out a forecast like we did and then to achieve that a year early I feel pretty good about.
So 12 for us is really maybe the first or second step into our 2015 goals which we will be steering you towards more and more later this year and beyond.
But 12 is certainly a building block to get there.
All right I appreciate the color thank you.
Its UBS good morning guys.
Hi Henry.
Can you touch on where you are with lean and maybe how that impacts your expectations for dealer inventory build as we go through 2012? Henry this is Ed.
First of all in terms of relying like you said deal we came out of kind of a standing star and deployed that and in 2011 we ran somewhere in the neighborhood of 27 000 units through laying its up about 50% versus what we did in 2010 timeframe.
If you look at laying to one end to its now up about 55% of our total shipment and so we continue to ramp that up.
Weve got more to go but I think were making good progress there.
In terms of dealer inventory build I would say that as we finish 2011 we finished with dealer inventory to about where we wanted from a months to sales perspective.
So as we move forward I think youll see dealer inventory kind of move with sales growth because I think the months sales were about right.
So as I look at 2012it would be a modest our outlook would include a modest growth in dealer inventory just along with the sales growth.
Thats helpful.
And as extended delivery times start to take hold could you talk about how that impacts your expectation for pins over the next year? Doug hit it earlier and we made some major commitments in 2010 to invest in capacity we continue to add on in 2011 and were going to do it again.
Youve seen in our release our sales growth outpace the industry growth and so we think the capacity that were adding is going to allow us to stay ahead of that curve.
Weve had it basically monthly announcement more or less and almost for last two years now with growth or acquisition those investments are starting to come online.
We are saying on the large factory is now online and ramping.
Victoria Texas is the new excavator plant will begin to ramp in the third quarter I go on and on with this but those investments are really just starting to return the money I guess as we get production to those.
So well see that in 12 and 13 will be big build here as well 14.
we will be adding capacity right on through to do that and that should help our availability and certainly will get after our market share goals for 2015.
This is Mike I was going to pile one more here.
Henry when are talking about extended lead times dont confuse that with sales arent going up a lot in mining in 2012 because they are.
So we expect good sales increases in mining the point that were trying to make is that actual demand is even better.
And there is one other comment we tried make this but sometimes you dont always get your messages across.
2012 we are looking to be another record year with sales for us at a midpoint of around $70 billion.
And remember that with US construction I mean housing starts at 700 000 I mean thats historically law I mean its following the tradition at some point construction in the US is going to pick up Europe will eventually come out of its recession we will get some housing we will hopefully eventually get a highway built and at some point those two big pillars of our business which are not better but not still at the levels were going to need quite a bit more capacity.
So this story isnt over.
I mean in the US and in Europe the two big developed regions are part of our business.
We are still languishing at well below prior peak levels.
Thanks a lot congratulations.
Thanks.
Good morning its Goldman Sachs.
Can you give us some more color on the $4 billion CapEx budget what are the most meaning in new capacity additions and if you could touch on mining accelerator capacity and give us some more context on the restructuring actions at CAT Japan? Thanks.
Okay.
Ill start with the first I remember the first and the last and you probably have to remind me the middle question when we get to it.
On the $4 billion what I would say is its spread out.
Some of it is spending on projects that we already announced.
A lot of it is for mining as Doug mentioned weve got facility in Texas a lot of the project that weve announced were also spending a lot of money at existing facilities in fact probably the majority of it is that existing facilities were ramp up.
In 2011 we did a little bit more than half I think it was 60% of our CapEx for facilities in the US.
In 2011 it will be likely in mix as well were investing in the US and overseas.
In terms of specific sort of project by project guidance we will pass on that.
Your last question was on CAT Japan? Thats right.
In CAT Japan its actually a good story were restructuring our manufacturing operations in Asia and CAT Japan as a key part of that.
We impaired some assets in our Sagami facility that we would intend to sell in 2012.
So big chunk of the charge in the fourth quarter was for that plus there is some employee cost related to it as well.
But its essentially restructuring our operations for our Asian manufacturing strategy.
And Mike can you talk about where youre seeing on supplier on-time deliveries and adherence to 90-day schedules exiting 2011 and also touch on what kind of increases in period and SG&amp;A costs are you expecting this year relative to the increases in 11? Hi Jerry this is Ed.
I would say and Mike commented on this in his opening and we got to give our suppliers full marks.
I mean if you talk about going from the $32 billion in 09 to kind of what we finished up this year from a supplier its even benefit because of the inventory at 09 timeframe.
I think supplier delivery performance was what really helped us come up at volume curve and were working closely with that in terms of making sure we stay and sink as we add capacity they add capacity were doing the very same thing with the dealer organization as we try to execute if you would simultaneously.
On the cost side we remain very focused at controlling cost as we go up this ramp.
Mike did the comparison earlier back in that 08 timeframe but as we ramp volume up in that period of time we allowed cost to kind of reflect in line with sales you saw us do a good job in 2011 in holding that down at less than 50% of that ramp and you will see us focused on that again in 2012.
Yeah there is similarities like R&amp;D and the cost implement capacity that we got to put in place but were going to remain cost stocks as we control the cost side of this equation.
Thank you.
Good morning Longbow Securities terrific quarter guys.
We heard you on TV this morning Eli.
Hope I did a good job for you.
You did.
Couple of clarifications.
The guidance does not include any of the impact of the Bucyrus service business is that correct? Thats correct.
Its our belief that it wont be very significant this year.
Okay the only question we will need from you is difference between the impact in operating profit and how much is gained on the sale of a transaction that would not be as repealing and you dont expect that to be material is that what I am getting through here? Well I think the overall impact of the transaction which is business thats going to the dealers and impact on us reducing intangible amortization that goes along with it.
Just all in some of its timing they didnt all happen on January 1 it just look like its going to have a very significant impact on our results in 2012.
Now as we go through each quarter as we have been its a big acquisition it wasnt in our results a year ago and will continue throughout 2012 to kind of talk about the impact like we did EMD this year.
Eli the only thing I would add to that is its going to be a challenge like Mike said over 50 transitions during the year but Ill tell you were starting to see the benefits of being able to go to our customer base with an extended product line and I think we get this done and our dealers can go with full product line full service offerings I think we are actually convinced more and more each day its the right direction to go.
You indicated inventory as sort of imbalanced with historic norms can you talk about that geographically I mean the impression we had that US inventories would probably still be little bit light and in some parts of the world it maybe little bit higher is that correct? No Eli.
I would geographically we got pretty good balance in terms of where we are at I mean I do think we did see it come up a little bit in North America in the latter parts of the years they gained confidence you got it up a little bit in China as you kind of prepare for the selling season we know all know what happens coming out of the Chinese New Year.
The other place from a geographic perspective weve seen it build is on mining related product just based on the lead time to simple as that mining product has continued to grow.
I feel pretty good about where we are at geographically as well as by different parts of the business.
It didnt answer his question but I expect it might inferred.
Ed made comment about China and a little bit of inventory build there.
I just wanted to kind of clarify one thing if you look at our total company sales in China fourth quarter to fourth quarter and you take the impact of inventory build out of both we would still be enough in China.
Im kind of surprised we didnt get a question on China so I am going to give an answer or at least an opinion.
But I think its important for all of you to understand and really know what we are up to in China.
China for us is a big market that were bring the capital broad set of business products and services into in a big way.
So thats financing power systems its machines its locomotives its everything we do.
And I have read there has been far too much encrypt about us being only excavator supplier in China which I think is a bit thinker.
Because we are installing a base over there of dealers that will sell our broader ray of products and services it will go after everything in fact if you look at our overall they are up year-over-year quarter-over-quarter because of that (inaudible) in the excavator business.
But because of the breadth that we bring we can really spread the rest through China its exactly what were doing and on top of that building inventory as Mike just said in China we are getting after market share in a big way and like here some of that come to provision.
So we have as we told before some big win in China plans by 2015 if anything I am optimistic were going to be a little bit ahead of that because of the breadth that China took in slowing their account which allowed us to catch up a little bit and then the speed in which we are putting our entire business model across China.
So China is a big opportunity for us its paying off beautifully here and you saw that in the fourth quarter and year-to-year.
Let me just follow that.
Were spending $4 billion in CapEx is that level put in next two years or we will continue to go up it sound just to me some of the expectation between now and 2015 the cap of spending is probably going to continue to rise for couple of years.
Eli I dont recall making an outlook on capital spending for 13 and 14 but as Doug kind of mentioned earlier we have both good solid goals for 2015 we are well above where we are at right now.
So I think its a reasonable assumption if you would think of an elevated CapEx to deliver that a while.
All right thank you.
LLC</strong> Hi good morning its RBC.
Just wanted to go back to an earlier question on the mining business I mean there is clearly or clearly saying decoupling here with US coal being weak can you give us an idea of how much of the business today is tied to I guess even may be the OE business to US coal whether its thermal or thermal plus? Well coal is certainly without a doubt by a pretty long shot the most worldwide is the most significant mining commodity and it is most important to our business but it is not just US I mean US has a big coal market of course but Australia Indonesia and China has a huge coal market not as big for us yet but witness our investment hope to our investment in underground coal in China.
One that we would like to take advantage of.
So mining overall including coal we have a big backlog of it is not good customers are bullish weve not really split it out by commodity by region but I dont think there is any big weakness that Ive at least heard about anecdotally in the US in our business anyway.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
I guess can we switch over to Europe then your outlook for machine business flat up is more bullish than weve heard elsewhere.
Anyhow I appreciate the fact that fleets are old and they need to be refurbished but can you give us any additional color on what gives you confidence that that market is not going to worse through the rest of the year? Well I think the most recent confidence if you will is just let this is not a new thing I mean this has been Europe has been in the news last six months I mean big time.
Order rates in the fourth quarter versus year ago just in Europe were decidedly up.
So just recent order rates from us despite all of the discussion of it being more positive.
Now happy of course if somebody other parts of the world not as part of the US but in the right direction.
I would say thats one thing that gives us confident I think how far the market fell in 09 and how far below in years the prior peak and industry sales are relative discuss appropriate or replacements I think all of those kind of triangulate to give us some confidence as well.
But I think probably the key point on confidence is just what dealers and customers have been doing over the last few months.
Europe Western Europe anyway and to some degree pieces going east but question here up is really pure dichotomy of north and south.
And southern European is really on its knees and Northern Europe was doing pretty well in fact still is even though the entirety of Western Europe might be in recession probably yes.
So you really got to watch that in terms of country by country and then you break it down in country there is a lot of special project.
In France a big high speed rail second one is coming to provision so its really a tale of two stories north and south as much anything.
Thats really thats been helping us and it just depends on how much along with kiosk and Southern Europe thats goes on and its been going on a long time and hasnt tanked the place yet.
We dont think it will.
LLC</strong> Okay thank you very much I appreciate the color guys.
I think we have just about the end of our time but will take time for one more.
Inc.</strong> Hi Jeffries and thanks for sneaking me and you can answer very quickly if you would like.
What are chance as we get back to the share repurchase in 2012? Well I think the short answer to that in 2012 is probably no.
I could make it shorter but that was adequate.
Inc.</strong> That definitely works for me and Mike sorry if I miss this but FX impact in 2012 probably a headwind did you quantify that? No we didnt but certainly less than 2011.
Inc.</strong> Headwind but less than 2011? Yeah.
Inc.</strong> And finally if I could just in the past you commented sort of broadly it looks like the street has seasonally fairly balanced through the course of 2012 little bit lower in the first quarter but we are hearing from lot other companies that may be things are weaker in the first half and then pick up in the second half do you want to give us any guidance there? Yeah we dont do quarterly guidance but thats actually a good way to end thats worth a little bit of the discussion.
I mean seasonally for us its on sale the first quarter is almost always the weak quarter of the year I dont see any reason why this year would be any different than that.
So I certainly wouldnt divide the year of sales by four and assume thats gone in the first quarter.
Also to on incrementals I think we ought to get this out right now if we go back to 2011 we just had a golden quarter in the first quarter I mean costs unusually seasonally low but were particularly good.
Price realization was particularly higher in the first quarter of 2011.
We had operating profit as a percent of sales was well above the rest of the year in the first quarter.
So I would just temper if you will the incremental margin expectations for Q1.
Not because there is going to be some big change in operations on our part but because the first quarter a year ago was just so good.
Inc.</strong> Great thats very helpful thanks.
All right thank you very much everyone and we will be talking to you over the coming days.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
(Operator instructions.) It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to you host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
I'm Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations and I'm very pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman and group president and CFO Ed Rapp with me on the call today.
Today's call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without our express written consent is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of today's call transcript we'll be posting it in the Investor section of our Caterpillar.com website.
It'll be in the section labeled 'Results Webcast.' This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
The discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 21st of 2012 and in our forward-looking statements contained in today's release.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our financial release and that will be posted on our website at Caterpillar.com as well.
Okay.
This morning we were pleased to report our first quarter 2012 financial results kicking off the year with the highest profit of any quarter in history.
Sales and revenues were $16 billion an increase of 23% from the first quarter of 2011 and excluding acquisitions of Bucyrus and MWM which we didn't own a year ago in the first quarter excluding them sales and revenues were up about 15%.
Again profit in the quarter was $2.37 the highest in history and up 29% from the first quarter a year ago.
In addition to the record-breaking profit this morning we announced an increase to our 2012 profit outlook.
This morning I'll start with a quick review of sales in our three large segments; Construction industries Resource industries and Power Systems.
I'll start with Construction.
That was up 13% compared with the first quarter of last year.
The increase was organic.
Construction Industries did not have acquisitions that impacted the quarter.
While total Construction sales were up 13% the picture was mixed geographically.
We had good growth in North America at 36%.
The Europe Africa Middle East region was up 11% and that is despite Europe's economic troubles.
Asia-Pacific was about flat and Latin America was down 2%.
I think you can sum up Construction Industries in just a few bullets.
First the North American increase is primarily being driven by strong replacement buying after several years of weak sales.
Europe is holding up with customer replacement being a factor like in North America.
And business was stronger in Africa the Middle East and the CIS.
Sales in the Asia-Pacific region were about flat for Construction Industries.
China was down significantly but the decline was offset by increases in the other countries in the region.
China has been a highly topical subject over the past few months and in a few minutes that is before we start the Q&amp;A I'll summarize more about what's happening to Caterpillar in China.
Now moving on to Construction Industries in Latin America the 2% decline was more than all in Brazil.
That decline in Brazil was almost offset by gains in the other countries in Latin America.
While Brazil has weakened over the past six months or so we have started to see the beginning of improvement there.
Okay that's Construction Industries.
Let's move onto Resource Industries which is largely mining.
And mining has been a great business.
Resource Industries sales were up 73% in the quarter.
The increase was evenly split between the acquisition of Bucyrus and organic growth.
The addition of Bucyrus added a little more than 36% to Resource Industries and organic growth in the rest of the business also added a little over 36%.
In short sales were up substantially in the quarter.
Orders were up and lead times for large mining trucks remained extended with most models being quoted into 2014.
In addition our Resource Industries order backlog increased during the quarter for both Legacy Cat products and new Bucyrus machines.
While mining remains robust overall US coal production is an area that has recently weakened.
And over the past few months we've also been asked about the impact of US coal on our business.
The answer is it has had some impact but not much overall.
To put it in perspective in terms of size for dealer sales of our non-Bucyrus mining products US coal represents less than 10% of total mining in 2011.
In terms of Cat machines overall this is our total machines including construction it was about 2% of the total.
And as a percent of our total business it was less than that.
Our Bucyrus product the US coal impact we're seeing is largely related to a portion of the underground business.
That said the overall impact on Bucyrus sales isn't expected to be very significant and we have not changed our 2012 outlook for sales and revenues for the two acquisitions of Bucyrus and MWM.
So for US coal we have seen some weakening but in the context of worldwide mining it's not much.
In summary global mining demand remains robust and indications from our customers tell us that strong demand will continue.
And again our Resource Industries backlog continued to grow.
Okay.
Now onto Power Systems and that's engines turbines and rail.
Sales were up 12% in the quarter from a year ago.
About 9% of that was organic growth and about 3% was from the acquisition of MWM.
Growth was primarily in two areas: our rail business and engines for petroleum applications.
Rail is doing very well.
We have a growing order backlog and our rail group has done a great job of ramping up locomotive production.
Power System sales for petroleum applications continue to increase.
Although there's been some shift from dry gas to oil and wet gas overall activity in our order book looks strong.
Sales of industrial and machine engines were about flat with the first quarter of last year but electric power is a little bit of a different story.
While we don't expect much growth for the full year we do not expect it to be negative.
The first quarter however was and that's mostly because we had a very tough comparable quarter with 2011's first quarter particularly in North America where sales more than doubled last year.
Sales were up so much last year and that was mostly higher horse-powered products ahead of the introduction to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements in the US Recently engine orders for electric power have been improving and we do expect the full year to be up slightly from 2011.
Okay.
That was sales and revenues again up 23% from the first quarter a year ago.
In terms of profit it was also a great quarter; again $2.37 was our best quarter ever.
Operating margin in the quarter was also good at 14.5% one of the best quarters we've ever had and it would've been over 15% excluding the impact of our Bucyrus and MWM acquisitions.
Our incremental operating profit was 23% of incremental sales excluding acquisitions very good results coming off a tough comparison with the first quarter of last year.
That said we did have $38 million of expense in the quarter related to the closing of our London Ontario locomotive assembly facility and $31 million of expense related to the sale of Bucyrus distribution businesses to Cat dealers.
Now before covering the 2012 outlook I think now is a good time to talk a little more about China.
Both the economy and the machine industry in China have been common themes over the past quarter so I'll take a minute and run through what are likely your concerns.
First how is the decline in China's construction equipment industry impacting our sales? And the answer is China's sales were down between the $250 million and $300 million in the first quarter compared with the first quarter of 2011 mostly related to excavators.
To put that in perspective China's sales were down--to put China's size in perspective sales are a little over 10% of our total Asia-Pacific region and around 3% of total Cat.
Second question is 'How has machine pricing held up?' and the answer is it's been relatively flat.
Not much change versus a year ago.
That said there is too much finished goods inventory in China on the ground today both ours and our competitors.
Pricing in China has been largely rational and we haven't changed our total company 2012 price realization outlook.
Now speaking of too much inventory on the ground in China that's why this year we're going to divert some of the excavators that we make in China to other regions of the world where we're very tight on supply.
We'll export probably around 20% of China's 2012 midsize excavator production this year.
So the third question 'What are our expectations for sales in China for the full year of 2012?' And the answer is we have taken our forecast down and we expect the full year will be modestly negative versus 2011 with the decline coming mostly in the first half of the year.
Now that doesn't mean that we're banking on a major increase in the second half.
It's mostly because excavator sales were already declining in the second half of 2011.
While we do expect the construction industry to improve moving forward there's too much inventory in the channel and it does need to be sold down in 2012.
Fourth question 'How has China's slowdown in overall economic activity impacted our global mining business?' And the answer is global mining has remained very strong.
Our worldwide order backlog for mining continued to increase in the first quarter.
Remember slower growth in China does not mean their economy is shrinking.
In fact it's growing faster than most of the world.
Our forecast is for economic growth in China this year of over 8% and that's driving continued growth and energy needs and consumption of most commodities.
As a result most commodity prices remain high by historic standards and mining companies are in generally good shape and continuing to invest.
Question five 'Has the recent weakness in China construction equipment changed your capacity expansion plans?' The answer is no but with a caveat.
We continue to be a strong believer that China is a major long-term growth opportunity.
It's a very large economy with significant development and growth still ahead.
It's the world's largest market for construction equipment and we intend to be the leader.
So in that context no.
Our build out in China is continuing.
The caveat is that our excavator expansion is staged and we can adjust the timing of capacity additions if we need to.
So in summary is China down in 2012? Yes.
Will it recover? In our opinion absolutely.
The long-term future for China looks very good.
Do we need to be prepared for the next round of growth? You bet we do.
Okay that's enough about China.
A word on the full year outlook for 2012 and then we'll move on to the Q&amp;A.
This morning we held our sales outlook in a range of $68 billion to $72 billion for 2012 sales and revenues.
While the headline numbers for sales and revenues were unchanged below that top level there had been a few changes.
We lowered our full year estimate for China and Brazil as we previously discussed and while we do expect some improvement later in the year the full year for both countries will likely be lower than we previously expected.
Now we are encouraged by actions that both governments have already taken.
So far China has made two cuts in bank reserve requirements 50 basis points in December and another 50 in February.
We've also seen articles in the Chinese press that expect the government to begin increasing spending on infrastructure and based on the long-term needs there that makes good sense.
In Brazil the government has been more aggressive.
After tightening from mid 2010 through August of 2011 the government has been easing since September.
Since then they've lowered interest rates by 350 basis points eased lending restrictions worked to recapitalize state-owned banks and implemented tax incentives to spur growth.
We have already begun to see the improvements in our business in Brazil.
Now while we've lowered 2012 expectations for China and Brazil we've raised our forecast for sales in North America.
Demand in the first quarter was higher than expected.
Dealer rental fleet size is still well below the prior peak.
Fleets are still much older than historic averages and rental utilization rates have risen to about where they were at the peak of the last cycle.
In short dealers will likely continue to refresh fleets and increase fleet sizes.
The same thing is likely happening with end customers.
We believe that much of the strength we're seeing in 2012 in North America is a result of customer replacement buying after several years of weak machine sales.
So in summary lower sales than previously expected in China and Brazil about offset by higher sales in North America.
Outside of that we haven't seen much change in the sales outlook.
In terms of profit we raised the outlook at the middle of the sales raise to $9.50 a share and that's up from our previous outlook of $9.25.
One last point before we move to the Q&amp;A and I think the point is an important one and that's putting 2012 into prospective relative to the future.
So here we are in 2012 with an outlook for sales and revenues of $68 billion to $72 billion and a profit outlook of $9.50 a share at the middle of that sales range.
It's a year where the US economy is growing slowly.
US construction spending remains depressed.
Europe is in or near recession and China and Brazil have weakened.
Look beyond 2012 we continue to expect economic growth in the US and improvement in construction fundamentals.
At some point real residential and commercial construction activity will need to improve from today's depressed levels.
And some day probably after the upcoming elections we'll get a longer term highway infrastructure bill passed.
In short we're doing pretty well in the US now and with better construction fundamentals ahead we expect to do better.
We don't think that Europe will be this depressed forever.
While they certainly need to make structural reform they can't cut their way out of the trouble that they're in; they have to grow.
When that happens it should be good for us.
Brazil has already begun to ease to drive growth.
They have major infrastructure development ahead of them.
Looking forward that will be good for our business.
In China have they had slower growth over the past few quarters? Yes they have.
Will they see solid growth going forward? We think so.
We believe in the long-term growth prospects there.
Do they have infrastructures needs? You bet they do.
Will we be coming off of a relatively low base for sales in 2012 in our industry in China? Yes we will.
Will continued growth in the world economies support an increasing need for coal oil gas metals and minerals? We think so.
In short we are expecting a record-breaking year in 2012 at a time when it looks to us like the world is setting up for further growth in the industries that are important to CAT.
That is why we are so focused on improving efficiency and increasing capacity throughout much of the world.
With that we are done and ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question today is coming from Andrew Obin.
Your line is live.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Andrew.
Hi.
Just a question on your guidance.
As we look at core operating leverage and what I mean by core operating leverage is incremental margin on volume alone it has been well over 30% since 1Q '11.
If I look at your guidance for the remainder of the year it implies that this core operating leverage will deteriorate into the second half of the year.
Plus if I look at your pricing guidance first quarter obviously was also very nice ahead of expectations.
Pricing should turn pretty neutral by the end of the fourth quarter.
Is that an explicit expectation about something taking place inside Caterpillar in the second half of the year or is it just conservatism? Your definition of core operating leverage that's a new metric to me.
What we've been tracking and what we've been reporting on is incremental operating margins.
That was 23% in the quarter again excluding the acquisitions which is the way we've laid it out.
And that's consistent with what we expect for the rest of the year.
Our full year is somewhere around 25% so I don't think there's anything significantly different between the first and the second quarters in that regard.
What I would say though is if you look at the first quarter we saw this a year ago as well.
We do have some seasonality in our cost and first quarter discretionary costs are usually a bit on the light side.
We saw margins in the first quarter of last year that were higher than the rest of the year and that will likely be the case this year as well.
But no there was I would say no deterioration in operating performance.
We had 23% incrementals in the first quarter and that's in the ballpark of what we expect for the rest of the year.
And on pricing pricing being stronger in Q1? Yes.
We had that phenomenon last year as well.
We expected a little more than 1% for the year.
That's where we ended up.
The first quarter was a little stronger than that.
We're looking for 1% to 1.5% this year.
There's always impacts of geographic mix and product mix and which customers took what product that can bounce any quarter around a little bit but fundamentally the plan that we had for the year that said 1% to 1.5% is still where we're at.
Can I have a follow-up question? Sure.
On China you commented that you expect China to be relatively weak in the first half and improve in the second half I guess sequentially.
That's how I read it.
Could you comment on what you are seeing in China in April and I apologize for getting so granular but obviously March is a huge seasonal month and what are you seeing in a sequential basis.
Are you seeing any improvement in the second quarter? Thank you.
A couple of things.
One the comments were really directed year-over-year and you're right probably February through May are usually the big months in China.
So the point we were trying to make is whatever the impact year-over-year is going to be this year most of it's probably going to be in the first half.
The selling season last year was just huge in China.
It was up very significantly from the prior years so a pretty tough comp.
Actually March of this year I think was our fourth highest excavator month on record in China.
It was the highest month since April of last year.
So year-over-year it's down partly because last year was such a good year and a really tough comparable.
The market there started to decline in the second half of last year.
By the time we get to the second half year-over-year comparables it almost can't be as significant as it was in the first quarter.
Even with that I don't want to over-blow that.
I made a point in the preamble to the Q&amp;A here to kind of quantify the impact.
You know China is not a huge part of business.
Sometimes people think that it's significance to our machine sales in construction is a lot higher than it is.
It was just a bit over 10% of our Asia-Pacific region in the first quarter.
It's a few percent of our sales overall.
It's an important market particularly for the future.
We have a lot of growth opportunity focused there over the next five years.
But in the context of total Cat machine sales in the short term it's not as significant as I think many people believe.
Thank you very much.
Mike I want to add a few comments on China.
Having just returned from there a couple of weeks ago I spent quite a bit of time in our factories with a lot of government officials and with many customers.
Several things are going on.
This was let's call it mid-April when I was there.
Number one the government last year did all they could to slow down inflation and they really achieved that.
That led to the second half slowdown that we're talking about here that we have all seen.
The five-year-plan revised growth down as we have all seen as well by arguably half-a-point to a point.
Those two goals actions and goals in my mind are extremely healthy.
We were seeing a market that was too hot boiling in our industry and many others--real estate housing prices and all the other things.
China acted to curtail that and they did.
I think they did a very good job in getting that done and then resetting five-year goals for GDP growth.
What we are seeing now and in talking to customers is kind of the blowback of that which is higher inventory for all of us in our industry but everyone I talked to officials to customers to our plant people everybody feel the mid-to-long-term forecast has not changed.
They are expecting this to recover fairly quickly.
Nobody knows when it will be.
Mike commented about our second half comps which I agree with.
But we'll see an economy growing over there probably 7% to 10% in the next few years versus what we had been seeing of 8% to 15% over the last few years.
I like those numbers.
We're positioned for leadership there.
That's what we've been trying to do and that's where our capacity is taking us.
Finally a lot of discussion there while I was there on a regime transition.
Not unlike here in this country.
And that believe it or not in China brings some uncertainty and certainly not instability but somewhat.
And that has I think influenced the overall market as well in a number of ways.
And so as that sorts out the rest of the year--even though they know who the new regime will be they're not in place they won't be in place until later in the year-- that cloud is out there.
So several things conspire to make 2012 the year we're seeing.
And I've said this before you've all heard me we were destined for a really bad ending a year ago.
They've slowed the economy down they've braked inflation and I think we have a much more sustainable path well into the future.
However in the meantime that means a transition in our business the way we look at the industry as well and that's what we're working through right now.
You saw some of those inventory levels that are a big result of that of our product in China.
We've had complaints in China from our customers and our dealers for years that we did not have adequate availability and capacity.
We have leadership goals there in market share.
We now have capacity [and] availability and that's what we're going to be about and get after.
So that part's good news.
And again I'm looking at China not quarter-to-quarter year-to-year but as a market that in call it 5 to 15 years from now which is supremely underserved right now for infrastructure supply will serve us very nicely.
And that's why we're continuing to invest and you've seen some announcements along that way.
So that's a little bit more color and insight as to what I saw there just in the last couple of weeks.
Okay.
Next question? Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi.
Good Morning.
Credit Suisse.
Two questions.
One and sorry to harp on China again but you talked about inventory levels being high.
Can you talk about what your plans are to reduce inventory on a cap basis and also at the dealership inventory level? And then also Mike or Doug what you would need to see to take more drastic actions in terms of halting some of the capacity additions that you had spoken about.
Then more broadly Mike if we just look at the inventory levels at Cat the inventory levels in the quarter again were a little higher for Cat specifically than I would have anticipated.
Can you just talk about where they trended relative to your expectations and how we should think about that throughout 2012? Yes I will.
And this is a slight editorialization here.
China's a very important market.
But again it was around 3% of our sales in the quarter.
So we have a lot of discussion around a chunk of the company that is important but not huge.
And Mike you're saying 3% of total sales not machinery sales right? Yes.
Total sales.
So we do have too much inventory in China and that actually was if you look at Cat inventory overall for the quarter it was up.
Part of it was China where we have too much and it's going to take probably the rest of the year to work it down.
One of the actions that we're taking is to export machines from China to other developing world countries that are actually in quite tight supply where we've essentially had dealers on allocation.
That's one of the things that we'll do and I think it's probably a safe assumption that we're not going to be taking production up in China on excavators for the second half of the year.
For what it's worth we did actually reduce dealer inventory in the first quarter in China.
Between year end and the end of the first quarter we did work down some of the dealer inventory.
I think that if you look at the rest of the Cat inventory increase in the quarter the vast majority of it was finished goods and both we and the dealers are kind of setting up for the summer selling season so I think most of that had to do with orders that are on the books for delivery in probably the second and third quarter.
I'll address the capacity expansion question.
And again I take the long view on that.
Having said that we are introducing programs inside China too to work with dealers to get some of that inventory in the hands of customers and get our market share up.
We are in a pretty good position and able to kind of scale and scope our capacity expansion.
The announcement we put out a couple of weeks ago about expansion over there really is out into 2014 2015.
If the market doesn't come back by then we just won't do it.
I am not going to be in a position in China of catching up on supply and capacity and availability like we've been the last ten years.
We can't afford that for the long term.
So we'll balance that today with we've got some projects we have to finish because if they're for efficiency and cost reduction we're going to do it.
And we're going to keep taking a look at that market every month.
But I guess Doug it's still sort of unclear what you need to see to take more drastic action.
Is it if the second half recovery doesn't improve? At what point does Doug get worried? Well I'd say yes.
If the second half recovery doesn't happen if the industry continues to shrink if we don't see Chinese actions to spur the economy in terms of some kind of central bank activity those kinds of things that we're watching.
And it's underway.
Mike mentioned the two stimulations the central bank did in China.
I met with the head of the central bank when I was in China and he gave a very central bank non-answer to this question about where the economy is going.
But he gave a very good answer about where they want to go long term and where they will be with their five year targets which gave all of us a little bit of confidence that they've got a handle on that and they have a pretty good track record of managing that economy so far.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Good morning.
Barclays.
Hey Andy.
So Mike maybe just following up on incremental margins in the quarter for a second.
You on the last call had talked about difficult comparisons with 1Q and you still put up very solid numbers 23% versus last year.
And a lot of questions we get are around how much weather played a role versus productivity versus currency impact versus price cost.
Maybe if you could flush out a little bit and was the first quarter better than your expectations overall in that regard? Yes.
First I'll do the easy one weather.
Our sales our production levels and our shipments which turn out to be our sales that's usually pretty well within reason.
What's in the order book is what we're going to produce and ship so I don't think there was any real impact from weather on us in the first quarter.
It might've had some impact on what some dealers are selling in some territories but again we're global.
Sometimes we talk about weather.
I think sometimes we believe the only place that business is done is in the US.
So I don't think that was a big deal.
Currency was very neutral to the quarter.
The impact on sales and profit was probably the smallest that I've seen in ages.
I mean it was negligible so that was not an impact.
I think it was appropriate to be a little bit cautionary going into the first quarter on margins.
We had a great quarter in the first quarter a year ago.
When we put our plans together here particularly for spending programs it's around a year plan and there's always some differences in terms of how costs actually come in quarter by quarter.
And considering the first quarter of last year was so good I think a little caution was warranted.
The fact of the matter is we executed very well.
We kept a very good lid on costs and performed very well in the first quarter.
But again there are always shifts that you can have quarter to quarter in margins and we're really focused on the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
Maybe if I could step back and ask a bigger picture question.
One of the questions we get most often on Cat is around mining CapEx going forward.
And I know you mentioned very strong markets and maybe this dovetails with China a little bit but investors are worried that you have a decent year in mining CapEx this year and then it kind of falls off over the next couple years as your customers get pressured to lower CapEx.
What are your customers telling you? How confident are you that mining CapEx won't fall off over the next couple years? Hey Andy this is Ed.
Through our alliance [stream] it's very tight connections with the major mining companies around the world and the indications are right now that they are going to continue with their investment programs.
I was in Brazil and Chile over the last 30 days talking not only with the large mining customers but the subcontractors that support them and that was one of the questions that I asked.
Are you seeing any signs of back-off in terms of some of the projects that were in play? And the answer was no.
I mean we think that they are going to continue to invest based on the long-term fundamentals.
The 7 billion people in the world.
The urbanization that's happening.
The under-investment that occurred in mining over an extended period of time.
We think this thing has got a lot of legs.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Robert McCarthy.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
It's Robert W.
Baird.
Morning guys.
Hey Robert.
And really hats off to an impressive quarter.
It's good to see the company starting to deliver on the potential that's been there for so long.
I wanted to ask about my first question is a two-parter on the Construction segment.
You had about a 12% incremental in the first quarter but of course in comparison with the quarter last year that you all described at the time as sort of perfect planetary alignment our expectation is that number gets significantly stronger in each of the next three quarters and that you should finish the year easily above 20%.
Is that your expectation as well? Then related to that volume growth low double digits in the quarter.
Can you sustain that level through the year or should we expect to see more moderation there? A couple of things Andy.
Rob.
One we've never laid out incrementals by individual business Rob but generally speaking our targets for Power Systems and Resource Industries and Construction aren't all that dissimilar.
One thing that did impact Construction Industries a little bit more than everybody else in the quarter; I made the comment overall that currency was not much of a factor for the company overall but it was a bit of a factor for Construction Industries and it would have been offset a little bit elsewhere.
So that held them down maybe roughly a point in the quarter.
No I would say that incrementals in the Construction business aren't dramatically different from expectations elsewhere.
Then we'll say related to that because it speaks to margins I mean from 30 000 feet you had roughly 75% growth in SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter.
Really looks out-sized relative to the revenue growth.
Can you talk about the drivers of that and if there's expectations that the absolute level of spending can moderate as we go forward or is this a new table setter in terms of run rate? Yeah I think if you look at the change probably a giant chunk of it was because of Brazil and MWM were in the numbers and they weren't a year ago so that's probably much of the change.
Bucyrus (inaudible).
What did I...
[You said] Brazil.
Oh.
Not Brazil Bucyrus.
Sorry.
Bucyrus and MWM.
[We've got] Brazil on the mind today.
But we had most of that last quarter with Bucyrus Mike and the year-on-year increase is a whole different order of magnitude here.
It was not in the numbers in the first quarter a year ago.
It is in the numbers today.
If you look at our SG&amp;A relative to sales as a percent of sales excluding the acquisitions it would have gone down in the quarter versus a year ago.
Okay.
I'll follow up with you.
Thanks Mike.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hey guys Susquehanna.
So I was just hoping to ask a higher level question and now that we can reflect back on two years of leadership by Doug and Ed and all the changes you've made since then--so more mining more rail more engines more aftermarket benefits of CPS and lane strategy--I was just wondering if you could speak to how you think the company's full-cycle returns have improved and then also how you think about how you may have changed the cyclical profile of your earnings.
And then any kind of quantitative metrics you might be willing to share would be great.
Well a couple of things.
If I look at where we are given the progress around the Cat Production System and the sophistication of a very I'm going to say efficient supply chain we've got a ways to go.
We've come a long way and there's no question these incremental margins and the pull-through of 23% or so and a little better than that without Bucyrus and MWM and some other things is extremely rewarding and I am very happy with that.
At the same time we are working hard and we have anecdotes and stories every day of where we can do better with our supply chain efficiency where we still have gaps between supply and capacity and through-put of our own factories.
So we have a long way to go and a lot of that is ahead of us yet.
Having said that if we ended up with whatever the incremental pull-through--23% and 25%--every year for the next few years I'd be very happy.
And we've seen that consistently throughout.
That's in our plans for the rest of this year right through to 2015.
I do know we've got opportunities out there to really get after some improvements around supply chain and still around Cat Production Systems.
So that's ahead of us but I've got to tell you the quarter as we saw it given the really tough comp to a year ago is rewarding and I think our people did one heck of a job to do the types of things we talked about in the second quarter.
As I stand back and look at--I'll pontificate a little bit here sorry.
As I look at the whole world who would have guessed a year ago we would have a China slowdown to the magnitude we have a Brazil slowdown somewhat of a recovery in the US but still anemic and put up these kind of numbers with incremental pull-through? I think we're just starting to see the power of what can be done here.
Hey Ted this is Ed.
I'd add on to your comment about the cyclical profile.
I think that the focus on the aftermarket and our business model as you travel the world and meet with Cat or dealer employees I think it's the one part of the strategy that has absolutely resonated around the world.
I think that focus on aftermarket will serve us well as we go through cycles.
The other thing that I think we've done different is if you look at Cat's investment profile historically we've invested I think the vast majority in what I would consider mid to late cycle.
Be it CapEx or M&amp;A R&amp;D type activity.
If you look at what we've done this time we've really been thoughtful in trying to invest earlier in the cycle.
Between 2010 and 2011 between CapEx R&amp;D and M&amp;A almost $20 billion invested in the business.
It's just we think we're now in the early stages of that mid cycle.
When you make those investments early you really have the opportunity to secure the return on that investment and bed down the acquisitions while you've got the wind at your back in terms of the industries that we serve.
That's another change I think that we've made as a result of the update to the strategy.
That's helpful.
Would we look for the biggest improvements to more likely come in Construction Industries or do you think they'd be shared more equally? I think generally we've got opportunity everywhere but certainly Construction we would expect to see a higher rate of improvement.
Okay.
Then the last part I was hoping to ask was just an update on lane strategy kind of where we are both domestically in the US and then outside the US and then I'll jump back into queue.
Yeah Ted if you get into lane in terms of the inventory that's part of the inventory build we saw in the early part of the year.
That's really us building PDC's.
We've got about 9 500 units in lane one.
We've got 22 PDC's that are operational another six that are in process.
We shipped about 5 600 units from PDC's in the first quarter.
As we get positioned at the end of first quarter heading in to what is the selling season we think the PDC's have us well-positioned.
Okay.
Well congratulations on the quarter and best of luck guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Vance Edelson.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Couple questions.
If we shift the focus over to Europe for a minute you mentioned Europe is holding up.
Could you give us a feel for the progression during the quarter and into April if possible now that the month is almost over? Anything you can tell us about the pattern and the latest trends? This is Mike.
I don't think that there's anything to be gleaned from that.
Europe overall just think about it economically and all the troubles from last year.
It's been pretty good.
Not as good in terms of increases as North America but it's been in generally positive territory all along.
I think it's a case where it's much like the US.
I'll use the US as an example because I think people are frequently more familiar with the data.
If you look at housing starts relatively weak.
If you look at commercial construction activity relatively weak.
Do we have a highway bill? No.
In the midst of all that we're up in North America in the 30%'s.
A lot of that is replacement.
So I think we have that same phenomena right now that's holding up Europe.
To some degree it's also a tale of different parts of Europe.
Southern Europe where let's just say proportionately more the troubles are right now it's actually down.
Northern Europe where the economies are doing better it's basically more than offset that.
I think overall Europe is kind of considering what they have going on over there has done very well.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just shifting over to the mining side.
You mentioned the US coal weakness.
Any other areas of strength or weakness by commodity that stand out? Similarly if you could provide some more color geographically is it mainly LatAm and Asia-Pac that are strong with the US the weakest overall? No.
Generally mining is up everywhere.
There's not a region where mining is not up.
I don't have the by-commodity breakdown in front of me.
We're usually kind of vague on that anyway.
I would tell you that with minor exception around US coal which is not that big of a percentage of the business overall mining has just been very good.
In my preamble to the Q&amp;A here I probably mentioned it five times but our backlog went up in the quarter including for mining.
Including for new Bucyrus machines.
Mining just remains incredibly good.
It's limited by supply.
We're taking orders on the big product now into 2014.
Everybody seems to be searching for a negative in mining but I'll tell you from our perspective there's not one.
Okay.
That's great to hear and then just one more question if I may? As you manage the inventories I'm trying to get a feel for the longer-term goal of increasing the inventory turns.
How quickly do you think you can get the inventories right-sized? Is there any change in your thinking about the long term goals for inventory turns and driving the free cash flow higher that way? It's going to take if you look at the issues we talked about in terms of China a pretty significant ramp-up relative to what's going on in mining and some other areas.
I think you'll see us focus on improving that number through the balance of this year.
As Doug commented earlier there's still opportunities to improve the integration across the supply chain.
Out to 2015 there's another half a turn there that we ought to be able to go get.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
ISI.
Two questions.
One a quickie to start.
The short-term incentive comp the $280 million benefit for the full year you only got $10 million of the benefit in the first quarter.
So the next three quarters can you lay out for us how you see that incremental $270 million benefit playing out year-over-year? Yes probably the--I don't have the numbers off the top of my head but basically we're one quarter into the year so what we book in the first quarter and that's in the Q&amp;A in the release that's what we would expect in each of the next three quarters.
We would accrue it evenly unless we change our outlook.
So then if you go to the year-end release we broke last year's out by quarter.
So if you take the first quarter of this year assume that for Q2 Q3 and Q4 you can compare that to the numbers that we had in our fourth quarter release by quarter for last year.
I just don't have them off the top of my head David.
That's fine.
As long as it's straight through this year I can comp it year-over-year.
So bigger question on the inventory again.
No one's asked the question just directly.
How do you feel about where the inventory is? I know you mentioned China but China's not that big.
I mean you can't be driving a whole inventory number.
It's been many quarters in a row where inventory has simply grown a lot faster than sales.
So maybe one number you could help us with what is the inventory in the first quarter--that's Bucyrus and MWM? So I can get more of an apples-to-apples--sales are up core 15% and inventory was up what 35%? I just want to get a feel.
Yes you're right.
There is a bit of an apples and oranges in there because you do have MWM and Bucyrus in the inventory number today and they were not in the sales or inventory number a year ago.
So I don't have either number off the top of my head.
I think the quarter that we released Bucyrus I think that was a part of our certainly our Q in the quarter we acquired it so if you would go back to the third quarter Q I think in there we say how much it was.
That's a good question.
I just don't--that's a part of the increase relative to sales.
I just don't have the number off the top of my head.
Hey David this is Ed.
Like I said the Bucyrus is part of it.
The MWM is part of it.
As both Doug and I have commented earlier if you look at working capital in total we're very pleased with the performance on accounts receivable.
We're very pleased about where we're at on accounts payable.
We know there's more work to do in the inventory turns side of it.
We're keenly focused on getting it done.
Yeah we've got a build-up in China.
Yeah we've got a ramp up on the mining side and some other things that's driving it.
But there's also opportunities for us to improve core performance in the area of inventory and we're all over it.
Not that you want to highlight this but where are the areas that you feel the inventory is highest on your radar screen of hey we might need to be careful next quarter to cutting that back? That's really the situation in China.
We appreciate that.
In the Q&amp;A section Mike you highlighted two-thirds of the dealer inventory growth is North America but the company inventory growth--and when the Q comes out we'll get how much is finished goods versus WIP and raw so maybe a little better color.
We're just trying to get a feel for where are the areas where you may be getting a little bit anxious.
It's a little inconsistent to keep--even from some of the dealers we can't get enough excavators.
There's definitely some products where it's still a capacity constraint issue.
In the interim we're seeing inventory growing a lot faster than sales for the company.
Right.
I think that if you look at the first quarter the vast majority of the increase was some form of finished goods.
It was either goods in transit that have been shipped but not recorded as a sale yet or it's PDC inventory or finished goods inventory.
Part of that is a function of expected sales.
If you look at our outlook for the year the middle of that range to use one number is $70 billion.
If you pull out what we actually did in the first quarter and then look at what's coming in the next few quarters it's up a fair bit from the first quarter.
First quarter is always seasonally low.
I think part of what you're seeing is an increase in a variety of forms of finished goods.
PDC is in transit and inventory waiting to be commissioned that's really a function of future sales.
Can we just wrap it up with is there any target for the end of the year? Just as we go through the year obviously 2Q you'd like to think inventory should come down seasonally.
But is there anything that we can monitor where we know your [bogey] is inventory to trailing sales for the year end is 'X ' call it 25% so we know if we're running above or below - we're just getting sensitivity to the production schedules.
Where's the risk if we're tracking it at that they might need to take some inventory down internally.
I think we definitely have turns baked in between here and the end of the year.
Absolute inventory is probably not going to come down but as sales and revenues go up from the $16 billion level in the first quarter I think effectively what you'll see is--I don't think total inventory is going to come down but turns are going to go up.
In other words we'll take it down relative to sales.
A couple things I would add here on this.
You are exactly right - virtually every segment of inventory has its own story and logic.
The most intense focus we have right now that actually has been building over the second half of last year and early this year is China and we acknowledge that.
We've got excess inventory there wheel loaders and excavators.
We're working on that.
I think we have a good story on that one as to why and where we're going to go with it.
Bucyrus former Bucyrus products we are building inventory by plan to get after higher volumes there and develop an aftermarket business that we find with lots of opportunity.
That's a buildup that makes a lot of sense for us.
Our PDCs we have been behind the eight ball on that since we announced that program five years ago.
We've been working on that.
We're finally to the point where within PDCs that we own we're about where we think the minimal inventory level should be to really get aftermarket share and service our customers.
If you look at US dealer inventory with our dealers here in terms of months of sales based on expected sales and outlook for the rest of the year it's reasonable and in line with historical areas.
It's really a mixed bag.
We'll probably be talking about it.
I know we'll be talking about it in the future much more but we're managing it as a mixed bag also in every single segment because every single piece of it has a different logic to it.
Overall with the exception of China we've got a pretty good program to get inventory where we want it based on our CPS and our inventory turnover targets over time.
Obviously when inventory goes up 13 14% sequentially the easy follow through on that statement would be "and thus we're raising our sales guidance".
We're building inventory because we are confident in the sales growth so to maintain the sales growth this report but the inventory grew 13 14% is I think the crux of the (inaudible).
I think inventory goes up based on what you think you are going to sell the next couple of quarters relative to this quarter.
If you look at our sales outlook the next few quarters should be well up on the first quarter.
It's not so much a function of changing a full year guidance it's where are the next few quarters going to go relative to where you've been.
And that would imply that the inventory growth sequentially was kind of in line with what you were thinking then essentially.
In China it was more that we expected a bigger selling season there.
So there are parts of it that were more than we thought and that's one of them.
All right I really appreciate it thank you.
Okay.
I think we have time for one more.
Our last question today is coming from Anne Diamond.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi it's JP Morgan.
Can you talk about switching total gears here can you talk about what you're seeing out there in the natural gas sector in the US?  We've seen rig cons come down significantly.
Yes they're switching from dry drilling to liquid drilling but what are the customers in that segment talking about? Is there discussions about deferring CapEx spending? In my view I think that is the biggest risk to sales for Caterpillar in the near term because I'm sure it has broad based impact not only on engine business but also on rental of equipment.
Can you address what you're seeing out there in the near term the very near term in the US? Yes well that's a very specific question and let me put it in a context.
Oil and gas overall turbines engines the backlog has continued to go up.
Solar for example which is a good chunk of our oil and gas business is for all practical purposes almost sold out for the year.
They have significant order coverage for the year.
They've got a good order flow.
In terms of our oil and gas business overall sometimes I think people believe that the bulk of it is drilling and that's not the case.
The largest segment of our oil and gas business is gas compression and actually the ample supply and relatively low prices are very positive for consumption.
If you're going to consume it you've got to move it.
So actually what we're seeing in our oil and gas business overall has been pretty positive.
Customers have been pretty bullish.
On the drilling side of it on the frac-ing side of it it has shifted from dry gas to oil and wet gas.
Another kind of point you're totally focused on the US but this business is global.
In fact probably three-quarters of Solar's business for example is outside the US so I think sometimes there's a little bit too much of a focus on our global oil and gas business just for the US So I want to add in here Mike a couple things we're seeing and we've virtually seen no I would say order vibration in our gas business whatsoever.
In fact we're seeing a couple other things.
We just announced and signed a huge deal for some of the first frac-ing with our 3500's in China.
China actually has more gas through fracturing available there than the US does and they don't have that.
There's no market for that yet at all.
Part of the fact is there's no pipeline system in China so you can just about see what's coming in China down the road which will really create demand for our products--and coupled with our new 3500 plant in Tianjin which is just now coming on-line.
The other thing that surprised all of us around here is the what I have been calling demand creation for gas products.
We are getting calls from virtually every customer segment to burn natural gas in our reciprocating engines which we have been doing for 50 years.
This is a huge growth opportunity.
We created kind of a strategic group around this to coordinate all of our efforts.
The opportunity is enormous when the gas equivalent of BTU burned to diesel right now is 70% cheaper.
The bad news is that (inaudible) price is probably not going to last very long.
The good news is we're in the supply chain all through it.
So I view cheap gas as a huge opportunity for us around the world as Mike said and while in the US we'll probably see cheap gas for some time the rest of the world wants that too and it's not that fungible of a product.
There's some L&amp;G you can move around but if you have a local source you're there.
We're seeing that virtually everywhere.
So I view this as a long-term opportunity for us that has kind of come out of nowhere.
Fortunately with our MWM acquisition a year ago we bring a lot of expertise with that coupled with a pretty good gas business that we had before.
Excellent.
And one quick follow up.
Just building on the margin improvement stories.
A lot of the trade magazines have been writing in recent weeks about your announcement that you will source Kubota engines for your smaller building construction products.
I mean that's a real change in strategy for Caterpillar.
Could you just talk a little bit about the thinking behind that? Is it the opportunity for margin improvements? I think it's great but I think it is a real change in strategy by Caterpillar.
Anne this is Ed.
On a good portion of that product line historically they sourced engines from Mitsubishi.
And that was based on the fact that there was a gap in the Perkins product line primarily in the 3-liter space.
So really what you're seeing is Kubota kind of filling that gap.
So no significant change in terms of strategy.
Okay thank you.
I'll leave it there.
Okay everyone.
Thank you very much.
We're very pleased to report another record-breaking quarter and with that we'll sign off.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillars Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
I am Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
And I am pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Dough Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Ed Rapp with me on the call today.
Now this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use or recording or transmission of any portion of this call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript well be posting it in the Investor Section of our Caterpillar.com website and itll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
The discussion of some of those factors that individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC back on February 21 of this year and also in the forward-looking statements language in today's release.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can also be found in this mornings financial release and that will again be posted on our website at Caterpillar.com.
Okay.
To start-off this morning I'll do a few bullet points that summarize this mornings release.
It was an all time record sales quarter in fact the best of the 87-year history of Caterpillar and up 22% from the second quarter last year.
A little over 12% of that was organic growth and a little under 10% from our acquisitions.
Sales and revenues rose about 9% sequentially from the first to the second quarters.
It was a great quarter for profit and also an all-time record at $2.54 a share and operating profit was over 15% in sales and revenues.
We had very good incremental operating profit pull through at 44% excluding the impact of our acquisitions.
We did however make a downward revision of $2 billion to the top-end of our sales and revenues outlook range.
About $1 billion was a result of negative currency translation and about $1 billion because of weaker world economic growth that we previously expected.
We did not change the bottom-end of the range so that means the sales and revenues at the midpoint are down about $1 billion.
And we increased our full-year 2012 profit outlook from $9.50 to $9.60 at the middle of the sales and revenues range.
Okay those were the high level points Ill add a little more color then Doug and Ed and I will take your questions and Ill start with sales.
Again sales and revenues up 22% excluding Bucyrus and MWM acquisitions which we didnt own last year.
Organic growth again a little more than 12%.
The largest increase was in our Resource Industries segment which is primarily mining.
Sales were up 68% from a year ago about 37% from the acquisition of Bucyrus and about 31% organic growth.
Sales were up in all geographic regions both with and without Bucyrus.
Our Power System segment was up 12% and that was 8% organic growth and about 4% from our acquisition of MWM.
The strongest growth was in North America and the strongest industries were petroleum and rail.
Our Construction Industries segment was up 8% and that increase was essentially all volume with negative currency impacts about offsetting positive price realization.
Construction sales were up in North America about flat in Europe Africa Middle East and thats where most of the negative currency impacts were.
Latin America was down 3% and Asia-Pacific was off 11%.
And of that 11% decline in Asia-Pacific more than all of that was China.
Speaking of China over the past quarter its been very topical; whats happening there what are we doing about it and when do we think it will get better? And with most of the sales in China relating to construction this is a good place to address it.
So in terms of whats happening there the construction equipment industry remains very weak and it really hasnt shown much in the way of signs of improvement yet.
In addition to the weak demand there is still quite a bit of inventory available on the ground in China.
Now while the industry is still pretty weak it did turned down at about this time last year.
So we are at about the point where the comparables are starting to get easier.
So on a year-over-year basis the numbers will likely start looking better than the first half of 2012 even though the industry isnt seeing much improvement yet.
So the question is what are we doing about it? And the answer is were actually doing quite a bit.
First were working with dealers to actually sell more products.
Over the past couple of months we took new programs in place to get that done.
And we expect to start seeing results of those programs in the third quarter and expect to get more of the available market.
Second we and our dealers are actively addressing inventory.
During the second quarter Cat dealers in China reduced machine inventories and thats a good thing.
However with weak end-user demand and dealers cutting inventory its resulted in a very low level of shipments from us to dealers and that make it tougher to reduce inventory.
Weve already lowered production in China and expect to reduce it even more in the third quarter.
That along with the higher level of exports from China to other parts of the world should help lower inventory there.
However because the sales volume levels in China havent begun to improve much we expect it will take a couple of more quarters to get inventory levels in China where we like them to be.
While were actively working to get inventory down in China were trying to keep a balanced view.
One of the few certainties in this business is that markets go down and then markets go back up.
In China were encouraged by the recent actions the government is taking to improve economic growth.
Theyve cut interest rates theyve lowered bank reserve-requirements and we expect theyll increase infrastructure spending later this year.
So we do need to be a little bit careful.
The construction industry in China had a history of turning quickly.
And when it does we do need to be prepared.
We are actively working the plan to lower inventory there but we dont want to go to the other extreme and take it down to a point below where wed have difficulty reacting when improvement does inevitably come.
So bottom line we think there is a good chance that signs of better economic growth in China will start later in 2012 and well thats our view.
Our 2012 sales and revenues outlook does not rely on any material improvement in China sales this year.
Okay thats enough on China construction and sales lets shift to profit.
And its a great story to talk about.
It was a great quarter and in fact again $2.54 a share our best quarter ever with operating margin just over 15% of sales and revenues.
That was also one of our best performances ever.
Cost control was very good.
Material costs were about flat freight cost were not an issue variable labor productivity more than offset labor cost inflation and period cost control was very good with period cost increasing at well less than half the rate of the sales increase.
All in all a very well executed quarter.
However on the negative side there was a tax rate.
We increased our estimated annual tax rate from 30% for the full year to 30.5% mostly related to the geographic mix of where our profits are earned from a tax perspective.
Thats means that after tax profit in the second quarter was about $24 million lower than it would have been had we not made a change to the estimated tax rate.
Okay.
Thats our quick review of the second quarter results; lets move on for a moment to the outlook.
Now as a starting point remember our previous outlook was a sales and revenues range of $68 billion to $72 billion and profit of about $950 million at the midpoint of that range.
This morning we did tighten up the sales and revenues range by lowering the top-end from $72 billion to $70 billion.
Now we first introduced that $68 billion to $72 billion range at the end of January with our year-end 2011 financial release and we held it steady last quarter in April when we released our first quarter.
This mornings $2 billion decline at the top-end of the range was a result of two things: negative currency translation and weaker global economic expectations than we had previously thought.
The currency impact as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar its translation our sales that are denominated in non-U.S.
currencies are translating into fewer U.S.
dollars and certainly the most significant negative impact is in the Europe.
Now we did not change the bottom-end of the range and as a result the midpoint is down $1 billion.
And at the midpoint of that new range that $68 billion to $70 billion sales and revenues range we expect profit to be about $9.60 a share.
Thats up $0.10 from $9.50 a share to midpoint of the $68 billion to $72 billion sales range that we previously had.
A few points about the outlook profit is higher despite the increase in the estimated annual tax rate.
Operational execution has been very strong and we expect that that will result in better profit despite the tax increase.
Currency while impacting sales has had little impact on the profit movement from $9.50 to $9.60.
Our global manufacturing footprint and broad cost base provides an offset to the impacts from sales.
And on that point I frequently read media commentary about Caterpillar when exchange rates moved and its frequently off base.
And because of that I think its worth making this point one more time.
We work hard over the past 30 years to get a better balance on currency exposure and because of that we are in a much better currency position than we were historically.
Rates can move and do move sales but when they do the cost impact is usually in the opposite direction and mitigates the overall profit impact.
So in summary we had a great second quarter.
We are a little more cautious of the top-end of our sales and revenues outlook and weve raised the profit guidance to about $9.60 at the middle of the sales and revenues range.
Another point before we move on to the Q&amp;A and thats the level of uncertainty in the world economy.
Its hard to pick up a newspaper today and not read about troubles in Europe with Greece Spain and Italy.
Theyre annexed with growth rates in GB and China.
There is concern about political polarization in the U.S.
and what will happen at the end of the year with the fiscal and tax cliff.
But those are the facts of life that were all dealing with today and there is no doubt that there have been a negative for business and consumer confidence.
We see it and we understand that some of these issues like Europes debt problems could take a while to fix.
That said we expect that over the next couple of quarters that some of those clouds will clear a bit and we can start forming a little bit better picture of 2013.
And while none of us know at this point what those outcomes will be we do know that the U.S.
elections will be over in the fall and we think chances are good there will be a resolution to the fiscal cliff.
The leadership changes in China will also happen later this year.
and after another quarter or two well get a better sense of the effectiveness of the easing measures that Chinese have already taken and any additional measures they may take to improve growth.
We know that in Brazil theyve started easing late in 2011 and we are seeing some improvement in our business there today and we expect that improvement to continue to unfold as we go through the rest of this year.
We also do think that Brazils preparations for the World Cup and the next Olympics will be positive for them moving forward.
Bottom line we believe that some of the uncertainty thats facing the world economy today will at least be a little less cloudy by the time we get to the end of 2012.
and as a result of numerous monetary easing actions that have been taken around the world were cautiously optimistic that the world economy in 2013 will be better than in 2012.
One last comment and then well start the Q&amp;A.
and as a seasonality reminder we have numerous vacation shutdowns around the world built into our third quarter that's normal that happens every year.
and as a result the third quarter is usually a weaker seasonally a sales quarter.
The fourth quarter is usually a seasonally high quarter for sales.
So for those of you that are trying to model our quarterly results please take that into consideration.
The third quarter is usually the weaker quarter of the second half.
So thats a review of our results.
and with that we are ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your questions.
Good morning its Goldman Sachs.
Mike can you tell us on how you're thinking about pricing heading into the back half of the year compared to the price realization we saw this quarter and also comment on where you expect to see company and dealer inventories at year-end? Yeah I'll start with pricing.
We've actually done better on pricing through the first half of the year than we expected it.
It's really held up pretty well.
Earlier in the year we'd expected that we would get maybe 1% to 1.5% price for the full year.
Were at probably between 2.5% and 3% right now through the first half.
We think it will probably go down a little bit in the second half that's whats baked into our guidance well probably end up the year somewhere around 2%.
Remember one of the points I mentioned was were working with dealers for example to sell more product in China so there will be certain merchandising programs for example related to that.
So I think a lot better year than we thought it was going to be even including the economic impacts that you see today but probably a little less in the second half than the first half.
In terms of dealer inventory we did have a little bit of an increase in the second quarter more than all of that was mining.
Now when you look at dealer inventory for mining you have to be a little careful but its not a case where dealers are loading up 400 ton trucks on their vault and hoping for a customer.
Its a case where we pass title to them and then they have to get the product to their customer.
They have to get it assembled and commissioned.
So usually when our shipments go up like they did in the second quarter versus the first the pipeline for mining inventory increases a bit and thats just a function of us shipping more through dealers to customers.
In terms of our inventory we did have a bit of an increase about 800 million in the second quarter.
And there were four reasons for that; one and Ill start from the smallest to the largest in-transit inventory thats basically where we sold the product  it wasnt sold.
We have a product thats been shift but its an export its on the high fees essentially and its best in for customer but we havent passed title yet.
When our shipments and exports go up in-transit inventory usually goes up.
We had a 9% increase in sales between the first and second quarters and in-transit went up a bit.
Thats to be expected based on the sales increase.
About 20% of the increase in the second quarter was components working process after market parts and thats very related to sales.
And again we had a 9% increase in sales from first to second quarter.
20% of the inventory increase was from the acquisition of Siwei and Bucyrus.
Siwei was an acquisition and Bucyrus inventory went up in the quarter and again thats not very surprising.
We have businesses like Solar like Bucyrus where they have seasonably big four quarters they build a bit of inventory all year along they have a big fourth quarter that usually goes down.
And again Siwei contributed about $100 million of the increase not just an acquisition.
About half of the increase was finished goods and more than half of that was on our Excavator division in China.
And I tried to cover this a little bit in the release this morning.
Its a case where we are cutting production there where more declines are going to come in the third quarter but dealers are cutting inventory there as well.
And if you start with a slow market and dealers reducing inventory now there are not a lot of shipments going on from our factories to dealers then.
So its pretty hard to take inventory down.
So even with the reduction in production that we had in the third quarter it wasnt quite enough yet to offset the impacts of a really slow market.
So we are going to take it down a little bit more in the third quarter we are exporting a higher percentage of the business in China outside of China.
So that should help there.
Hi Jerry this is Ed.
The thing I would add on Cat inventory looking for the balance of the year between now and year end Id be disappointed if we didnt take $1 billion at least $1 billion out of inventory.
But were also trying to be very thoughtful in terms of how we manage the full supply chain.
If you think about what the supply chain has done and with $32 billion in 09 your midpoint of the outlook $69 billion and if you look at the basic outlook that says there is some drivers out there that says 2013 could be positive versus 2012.
We want to be very thoughtful about how we take that inventory down but we are now in the end of the year getting $1 billion out is something we ought to be able to do.
Okay.
Appreciate the color.
And Im wondering if you could talk about how much visibility you have in your gas compression business and whether that business can continue to outpace the slowdown were seeing in U.S.
pressure pumping and in electric power can you just on which regions are driving the weakness that we saw year-to-date and what you expect to heading to the back half? Thanks.
Yeah I mean we dont break our petroleum business out in quite that much detail but what I would tell you is the largest sort of application segment for oil and gas business is gas compression.
So contrary to popular belief its not drilling and fracking its gas compression.
So the more gas you have the more wells you drill the higher consumption of gas goes the more need that you have for gas compression so that business is actually doing quite well and looking up.
We do a lot of gas compression with Solar and with Solar we have a very good long-term visibility.
So Id say oil and gas  your point about fracking is right.
Fracking is slowing down but gas compression is doing very well.
So our general view of the oil and gas industry is actually pretty good right now.
Jerry were going to have to move on to the next person in line.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the next question today is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then post your question.
Inc.</strong> Hi ISI.
Im just trying to look at the inventory guidance.
Ed you just mentioned $1 billion coming out ideally by the end of the year.
That would still imply the next couple of quarters that inventory will be growing faster than sales year-over-year.
So just coming off the last five quarters of inventory still growing faster than sales Im just trying to a) just understand why we continue to grow inventories faster than sales or b) is the answer and everybody can have their own macro view are you guys in fact confident 2013 is an up year to continue to grow inventory at this rate? David two things; first of all on inventory growing faster I mean if you really look at our guidance in terms of mid point of the outlook we had sales in second half actually slightly up versus first half.
And so youve got a slight increase in sales and a lower inventory level.
So you dont have inventory growing at a faster pace than sales.
And then your second point is is far a little bit as well.
It is my kind of walk around the world and you look at what 2013 should look like versus 2012.
I cant imagine the degree of uncertainty we have in the U.S.
so that we dont have greater clarity in 13.
I cant imagine what the steps that China has taken in terms of monetary policy pay cuts reserve-requirement cuts you dont see a better 2013 than 2012.
I cant imagine with all the moves that Brazil has taken as well as the upcoming of the World Cup the Olympics; you dont see a 13 better than 12.
So part of our thinking is making sure we are very thoughtful across the supply chain.
The other one to keep in mind and I think second quarter really demonstrated it there are also some benefits to the inventory position we have our point of use availability our quality our delivery performance our pull through we are all very very strong.
And so I do think there is some benefits as to how we worked with our supply base to ramp up and I think you are seeing it in some of those operating metrics.
Inc.</strong> And I appreciate the math sequentially but I was speaking about year-over-year and the math is you are still planning on inventory growing faster than sales year-over-year and obliviously it sets up a little more risk on how much retail you need in 13 to continue to grow your production.
So I guess end of the day I mean obviously you will give 13 top line guidance I assume Mike will give it on October but the way you are handling the CapEx for the rest of the year essentially no cut the way you are guiding the inventory I guess base case we have to be thinking youre thinking 13 and up year otherwise you would be taking a bigger cut through your inventory and even maybe even in the CapEx?  And David thats why we try to give you some color as to why we saw 13 being better.
The other one to keep in mind on the CapEx is that in spite of the numbers that we reported today which are an all-time record on both sales and profit keep in mind that our traditionally strong markets U.S.
Europe and if you go back in history even Japan are in the neighborhood of 40% off prior updates.
And if at some point in time those markets are going to turn.
And when they turn we want to be ready.
And those places where were taking and slowing down some of that CapEx China being one example.
But were going through a business-by-business industry-by-industry really looking at what the long-term prospects are going to be.
Okay David Im just going to add one more comment in there Inc.</strong> Sure.
on the year-over-year.
That is you almost have to look at it by the type of inventory that were talking about.
weve increased parts inventory for example faster than sales.
Part of the reason for that is were putting additional Bucyrus inventory into the system.
Were doing that to increase delivery performance there.
That was a  thats the key part of driving higher part sales and profit out of Bucyrus.
Now if you look at our actual production inventory its performed a lot closer to sales.
if you look at the PDC that's where were holding finished inventory.
on purpose we call it lane one inventory thats up $1 billion or actually a little bit more than $1 billion year-over-year.
Thats very purposeful I mean the problem was a year-ago we didnt have enough capacity in place to get it where we need it.
So weve added more than $1 billion to PDC inventory on purpose that was all a part of the plan and weve been able to do that really over the last six to nine months as productions come on stream.
So its not just that simple how much did sales go up how much is inventory going up? And then we also had acquisitions.
roughly half of the FIFO inventory increases Bucyrus MWM and Siwei just acquisitions.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you very much.
I appreciate the color Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Barclays.
Good morning guys nice quarter.
If I could ask you about backlog Mike I know youve talked about in the past you didnt kind of rue the day when it would go down.
I think we all expected it to go down sequentially here.
But how do you look at the backlog decline in terms of mining and with your comments in the release about mining customers extending investment over the next few years.
How is it affecting your business now and if mining CapEx is down significantly can you grow your business?  Couple of things one say how they are affecting our business now.
Well organic sales were up 31% in mining in the quarter.
If you look at our year-over-year backlog how well we do it on backlog versus year ago its up 11% not down.
If you look at the change from the end of the first quarter I mean there are a couple of things that are definitely going on there one and this particularly effects construction we took quite a few products off managed distribution.
We've been on a situation for the last couple of years where we couldn't supply enough and we had dealers on managed distribution for quite a few products.
We've been adding production capability over the last couple of years that situation delivery times has improved a lot and when that happens it's almost like clock work dealers take  they don't have to be quite so cautious and because we can deliver quicker.
So that was definitely a factor for construction.
On mining customers did  we shift more than we took in new orders and the backlog did go down.
But you almost have to look out in perspective.
I mean we were getting very large orders really over the past couple of years and were increasing every quarter.
And its a function of  weve been putting in more capacity to deal with that.
I mean we wanted for long time to get the order book for mining to a more reasonable level delivery times for customers to a better level.
And thats why weve been putting capacity in place to do that.
That said theres a lot of uncertainty in the marketplace today customers are  just like my comments in the opening were all trying to get a better picture in terms of whats going on economically.
Central bankers have done quite a bit but that takes a while to actually materialize in the economy.
And I think people are taking a little bit of wait and see to see how 2013 is going to shape up and I think orders reflect that.
That said mining order book is quire long we have very good visibility into 2013.
For a lot of the big trucks were still taking orders into 14.
So its not as though all of a sudden the backlog is dried up and we dont have any visibility.
Thats helpful Mike.
And if I could shift gears for a second I mean in the first of the year youve done almost 15% margins; in the second half of the year if you look at the implied guidance you would do much lower margins.
You talked about lower production in China incentive comp is going up I mean we see all the things that are in the release.
But the question I have is is this some conservatism in the guidance?  Well what Id tell you is this many of the comments that weve actually made here today more in the release price realization is probably not going to be quite as strong in the back half of the year.
Seasonally the fourth quarter is usually a higher cost order.
So those things will certainly impact the second half of the year.
But youre right the first halfs execution has been very very good.
So I think our outlook is I mean we raised the outlook today from $9.50 to $9.60 on midpoint of the sales range that went down $1 billion and were looking at a higher tax rate.
So I think actually the profit story for the rest of the year is pretty positive.
Thanks.
Appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Henry Kirn.
Please announce your affiliation then post your question.
Hey good morning guys its UBS.
Hey Henry.
Hi Henry.
In the release you called out the dealer rental inventory results.
How much opportunity is there to refresh the fleets and if we went through a pause do you think the dealers would take the opportunity to start a refresh?  Yeah.
Henry this is Ed.
Yeah I think were already seeing some of that in terms of dealers refreshing those rental fleets.
But if you look at it in terms of the total fleet size its still below kind of historic levels historical peaks and on average the age is older.
And I think its not only a view of the rental fleet but I didnt get a pretty good proxy for customer fleets are especially in the developed parts of the world.
They were in a period of uncertainty they just delay the decision to make that an upgrade to the fleet that new purchase.
And so like I said as we talk about moving forward I didnt get the point in time they get greater clarity.
So one in that helps is that we did finally get a passage of a highway bill.
We are starting to see some  the bottoming out and improvement in housing.
I think as those issues get a bit clear the opportunities for not only rental fleet replenishment but also the upgrade of customer fleets is one of the opportunity that lies ahead.
Thats helpful.
And could you share your latest thoughts on Cat Financial and your appetite to take risk there gain share or use this competitive weapon? Henry its  Cat Financial has been a competitive weapon since we launched it back in the 1980s.
And the thing that we do with Cat Financial is we stay very close to home.
so its there to support and pursue the growth of the Caterpillar business.
and if you think about the 08 09 financial crisis and how well it performed I think it shows the benefits of staying very close to home in terms of the way you manage your capital finance company.
I think with the uncertainty that you have today in the financial markets having a capital finance company has become I think even a bigger strategic advantage.
I think the other place where were going to see it play out is the strategic advantages drive the full integration of Bucyrus is well really be  the only full line provider in that mining industry and plus with the captive finance company I think theres a real strategic advantage there.
But were not going to significantly alter our risk appetite.
We think we manage that part of the company well I think youll see us consistently manage it moving forward.
But as you saw with the results they had a good quarter theyre a great part of the company.
Thanks Henry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hey it's Vertical Research Partners good morning.
I wondered you mentioned rail was strong in the press release and I wondered if you could break that down into a pre-buy maybe North America versus  I know rail has been booming in mining globally.
is that a business thats gotten up into a solid double-digit profit margin or is it still lagging?  Yeah.
A lot of the rail increase that weve seen so far this year has actually been in North America and to your point a few years from now there will be a move to new emission standards in rail.
And I think there are certainly some buying thats going on ahead of that.
Were actually doing a bit better than the industry when we acquired EMD it had lost a lot of its business over the years to GE and thankfully weve taken some of that back now.
So actually were doing pretty well.
In terms of profitability in general that business is actually doing quite a bit better than when we bought it.
Weve got the new factory going in Indiana right now in Muncie.
They have come up on production remarkably well.
We had a good quarter despite the fact that we essentially shifted assembly in the first of the second quarter from Ontario to Indiana.
So theyve done a great job.
Okay great.
And then if I could ask another Power Systems follow-up just on electric one of your competitors had cited some weakness I know you have some tough comp issues that maybe are fading.
Is it possible for electric power gen to be up for you guys this year? Do you have an order book that would support that or is it looking a little softer?  Well a couple of things.
One if you look at our overall power systems business versus that competitor that were talking about thank goodness for rail and thank goodness for oil and gas its good to have a quite vary business so we have some end markets that are weaker we have some that are stronger and we happen to have a very good balance.
So in total you saw our sales to end users accelerate the three-month moving average from overall plus 2 to a plus 7 in June and that was a good thing.
But I do there are comments about Power Systems in general particularly the smaller diesel end of it.
We're definitely seeing that in the marketplace.
And so certainly at the smaller end of electric power it will likely be a negative year.
At the big end and the turbine end we had some really tough comparables in the first quarter that were with us throughout March.
And so year-over-year that part of the businesses has been a little  comparably a little pressed because we had such big turbine sales in the first quarter a year ago.
But on balance I would say the bigger stuff is a little better than the small stuff.
And the competitor that you referred to is probably relatively speaking stronger than the small stuff.
Yep true.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Seth Weber.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hey good morning.
It's RBC.
Good morning Seth.
Good morning.
Back to the mining business you gave some good color on the trends in the truck side.
Can you give us  can you comment why you're seeing more in the underground side? Underground hard rock or underground coal? Underground hard rock has amongst the longest backlog of all of our products.
You mean underground coal Bucyrus underground coal? Yeah the old DBT business.
Yeah that's probably weaker than the rest.
We talked a lot about that I think in the first quarter where we were seeing some decline there.
We haven't broken out on Bucyrus lot of detail separately in the outlook but I think the overall sales for Bucyrus this year are going to be lower than we had originally thought and really for two reasons.
One is underground coals are bit weaker.
Thankfully we dont have as much of our business tied up in U.S.
underground coal maybe our largest competitor does but its still going to be a bit of a negative.
And on the flip side of that weve now sold four of the distribution businesses to Cat dealers.
Those are in our numbers now and in our outlooks.
So that will probably take a little bit off the top line for Bucyrus as well and thats baked into our outlook as well.
Okay thanks.
If I could follow-up on Europe on the construction equipment business can you just comment did it accelerate to the downside through the quarter I mean are you seeking trends get weaker there during the quarter?  Yeah I think its probably fair to say.
I mean if you just look at Europe Africa Middle East rolling numbers youve seen that monthly get weaker.
And I think thats definitely thats certainly been the case in Europe.
Europe has moved from  Europe Africa Middle East has moved from up to being about flat and its moved that way throughout the quarter.
And do you think that that continues to deteriorate through the year or is that kind of stabilize at a low level here? Its  again we dont provide our outlook in that quite that level of detail.
But to Eds point earlier we have a decent sales outlook for the back half of the year.
Were not looking for a big deterioration.
That said there are pluses and minuses.
Were seeing for example better business in Brazil thats turning up a bit.
And you also would have seen that in the Latin American numbers it moved from I think down 6% to down 3%.
So I know youre seeing that move a little better.
It was actually positive later in the quarter.
And in fact our machine retail sales also (inaudible) in June we report the three month moving average.
But from a monthly perspective June was the best month weve had since January in terms of month-over-month increase.
It was one the best months on a volume basis weve ever had.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation and then post your question.
Hi good morning; JPMorgan.
Good morning Ann.
Good morning.
Can we take a step back again and look at U.S.
construction.
Doug you noted on CNBC this morning that you are seeing more broad-based recovery in housing starts across the country.
Is there thesis out there that the rental channel is secularly going to grow versus kind of a contract or ownership.
What are you guys seeing out there right now and Doug when would you anticipate that your contract customers would start to purchase equipment again rather than rent which they usually do at the beginning of a cycle.
But as we get into the cycle they usually prefer to own their own equipment.
What are you guys seeing out there and what do you think happens over the course of the next year or two? Well my comments earlier on broad-based housing recovery is relative.
I mentioned that I was on the West Coast in California specifically and I met with several contractors and all of them had for the first time in five years a subdivision underway.
And none of them were massive projects like we saw in the 2000.
But it was fairly widespread in that subdivision here a subdivision there in different areas of California.
I was impressed with that but from a very very small base.
Ive heard that elsewhere around the country as well.
I think the housing statistic support that as we look at that.
There is no question that rental market the multifamily is booming I guess in some parts and I  we can take advantage of that.
I dont really see our contractor base significantly kicking up orders based on housing probably until at least next year.
If anything happens it will be the transportation spending and some degree of clarity on that through the highway bill we just saw as opposed to the next two and half years and I would say that if we see it when we see itd really be spring is too late in this construction season to get much underway.
Well see it first in the rental market for sure and depending on the prospects of the debt cliff and everything else in this country and how that settles out this winter that will impact the spring greatly.
So I see a couple of those things coming together that could be positive and (inaudible) itself up as some of the politicians are threatening I guess it would be negative.
Fair enough.
And then on the operating side you noted that material costs were flat in the quarter should we anticipate or why wouldnt we anticipate that material cost should not be a tailwind going forward from here particularly even if the pricing weakens there but its still a positive shouldnt then it be a positive for Caterpillar going forward? Yeah and this is Mike.
Even when commodity prices were moving up the impact on our actual material cost was quite muted.
If you go back to the first quarter we were up about 1%.
Last year we went up much more than 1%.
So it was  the impacts on those are quite muted and part of that is because  for a lot of our purchase volume we agree prices annually were not  the majority of our material purchase are not actually commodities.
So I think broadly speaking your sentiment is correct obviously the portion of our business it is commodity related the pricing is a little bit easier but I wouldnt get carried away in terms of order of magnitude there.
Okay.
And just a little quick follow-up on that one then.
Youre looking at taking $1 billion out of inventory by year-end what would the target be for days on hand or inventory turns once we get through all the sales out there do you see distribution businesses et cetera et cetera.
What should we be looking at a year from now in terms of the right kind of inventory levels for Caterpillar? Anne if I was going to look out and net out all the acquisitions and all that and look out into 2013 type time frame something around a three turns would be a place Id fall.
Okay thanks.
And that would be sort of  think of it as FIFO not LIFO.
Okay thank you.
I appreciate that.
I want to just comment here a little bit on our inventory outlook run rates et cetera going forward.
And I will tell you that we are playing the game here on a world that grows maybe anemically but grows between now and lets call it the next 12 to 24 months we are not playing for an implosion we are not playing for a drop like we saw in 08.
The (inaudible) that we see based on the monetary conditions that exists right now and the easy money flows should loosen up the economies a year from now what were seeing today is are the effects and impact of pretty tight monetary policies a year ago.
These things take time to wind through.
We have only in our dreams arrive at an availability position that we have today where we can concentrate on market share and pricing which were doing.
Im very reluctant to take too bold of a move on inventory in China because we have seen this China show before many times in the last 25 years.
Weve seen it in terms of an absolute stop in demand for excavators and wheel loaders probably three times beside Ive been watching China in my career maybe four.
And within a year weve seen a recovery sometimes blooming recovery and some just a nice recovery.
We are in a position today where if we miss that and have insufficient inventory with an amount of competition we have there we will be out of that game and it will be hard to get into a leadership position that we want.
So we are watching China very carefully there is no question we have too much inventory for today's run rate of sales but again Im not at all convinced that a year from now or less or a little more well see China back on its feet as we have seen so many times in the past.
And everybody can argue that this is different in Chinas change and maybe it has but I suspect there will be some amount of recovery we will be in a position where we have availability and we can build pans in our distribution model that will work for us long-term.
Thats not a dissimilar place where we are with PVCs.
We arguably are a bit heavy everywhere today at the run rate but we are in a position where we finally have availability that we build capacity around that we didnt have in the last two recoveries around here.
And certainly thats been part of our strategy is to take market share with availability.
Our quality levels are as good as weve ever seen them our efficiency levels are as good as weve ever seen them.
and we now have availability in the marketplace.
Were not playing for implosion were playing for arguable growth maybe anemic but as I said here today and we look at 13 as Ed said is almost got to be better on economic basis.
GDP growth in the world and thats what were playing for.
So well yes we are watching inventory.
Yes I was very worried inventory turnover were doing all we can with our supply chain and it is on the improving.
we don't want to call this the wrong way with too little inventory and I would say get stuck with too much so its all hands on all levers everyday with inventory and run rate weve got schedules in the third quarter that are very much reduced with maintenance shutdowns with vacation shutdowns around the world and will manage production to sales that way as well.
But inventory levels are important if we believe the world is going to grow which we do maybe anemically.
I guess that would be my strength around all of that which is a little late and I apologize for that.
but it is something were managing we're being very very cautious and guarded with both on the upside and the downside when it comes to working capital specifically inventory.
Fair point Doug thanks for the color.
Thanks Ann.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation then post your question.
Hi good morning Credit Suisse and a nice quarter.
Two questions one Doug with regards to the economic outlet you just sort of laid out and obviously you guys are a little more constructive on 2013 related to what the market is saying or relative to what your stock is saying.
I guess just beyond 2012 and given the environment you just laid out how do you think about CapEx? I mean do we need to say at this $4 billion number to meet your targets in an okay macro but slightly weaker than what youre calling for? And then I guess how do you think about share repo in that context given where your stock is? And then I guess my second question is can you just talk about your comfort level with dealer inventory levels outside of China? And I guess my thought or concern would be as I talked to dealers and just given the weaker macro and just given your ability to deliver and given the fact that your lead times have come in.
Do you think the dealers can sit there with less inventory than they have been historically one because theyre concerned of the macro is weaker; and two theyre not as worried as they were historically that Cat cant deliver.
They have the actual confidence that Cat will deliver the equipments they dont need to sit this much with this much inventory that youve had historically?  You got a lot of there Jamie; let me take the CapEx one right off the bat.
We are on track to get close to $4 billion but I will tell you also that each of our groups whether its construction or resource or our aftermarket business are looking at that very carefully.
Weve significantly Id say delayed.
Some of our plants and most of our plants in China for the time being as a result of that market to see how thats sorts out.
We have an aftermarket distribution business that is very antiquated that needs upgraded.
And most of the CapEx you can argue is capacity related but I would also equally argue that its cost reduction related all of the Victoria Texas excavator plant small dozer plant in Georgia that were expanding to bring production back here.
Those are cost reduction activities as well.
Again were playing for growth albeit slight growth.
And significant cut backs in CapEx would only hinder us in 14 15 you may have to do it.
Sure as Im sitting here today if something happens on a macro scale between now and year-end and we have to take actions.
We will and we will do it.
But right now we are planning for some kind of growth in the next 12 months to 24 months.
Thats kind of around the CapEx thats kind of around the inventory questions.
I think there is no question that builders are gaining confidence and our ability to supply equipment and our PVCs are at optimum levels.
Hopefully that model will work.
They will carry less we will carry more the chain takes cost out.
Thats what we are seeing but again depending on if we see growth well have to adjust that model I forgot what you had in the middle in there Jamie.
Share repurchase? Yeah share repurchase.
Yeah how could I forget that one.
Especially the $82.
I know its a little cheap at $82 but having said that we have a balance sheet today with debt-to-debt and cap at 40 and net debt position when we consider our cash and securities at somewhere around 34 35 and I want to be sure that as we go forward in this very uncertain world although I have painted it somewhat rosy with anemic growth.
Then we have a bulletproof rock solid balance sheet that we never have to worry about our credit rating or dividend which I dont think we do.
Share repurchase is not on our radar screen today its the last of our priorities.
I have said before I think Ive said to all of you that I hope in my career which has a few years to go I can buy one share back but right now weve got other priorities and I think we are investing them wisely.
Okay.
Great thanks.
Ill get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Robert Mccarthy.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Yes Robert W.
Baird.
Good morning everybody.
Hey Rob.
Inc.</strong> Jamie basically asked my question but the other side of that coin is with valuations to press they have been recognizing them certainly as well to do with that.
How tempted our user try to take advantage of that and may continue what so far it look like pretty successful external investment program and tell me about acquisition?  Well Rob this is Ed.
I mean we played out kind of our cash deployment strategy and I think youre going to see us consistently stay focused on it.
We think the number one is the opportunity for growth we moved aggressively in terms of the acquisition space we try to do it early in the cycle because it is easier to integrate as you work through the cycle.
I think on the acquisition front today our primary focus is what I would describe to slowdown to digest.
We feel good about where we are at with the integration of Bucyrus with lot of work.
We feel good about where were at in terms of EMD and Mike talked about the operating performance there but there's still more work to do as well with MWM and Siwei.
So I think you're going to see us stay clearly focused on integrating what we have in the acquisition space.
Inc.</strong> Ed if that's the case you're not showing any appetite really to try to reduce the absolute level of debt on the balance sheet.
So should we just then expect to see cash continue I mean youre generating significant free cash flow were just going to watch that accumulate on the balance sheet over the next two quarters to four quarters? Maybe and wed like to get that debt-to-cap gross number not the net number down into the low-30s.
And I think that that types of stuffs to have inflexibility we want in a downturn for acquisition for any growth opportunity that comes along.
So I would say that the concentration on the balance sheet while its generating cash and making sure our poster numbers are at that 25% levels exactly where we would be in the next two years particularly the level of uncertainly out there.
Inc.</strong> All right.
My follow-up has to do with I guess disclosure if thats the right way to characterize it.
but weve now anniversary to Bucyrus acquisition so two subquestions.
One does that mean next quarter you are going to stop providing visibility into its performances differentiated from the rest of resources? and second Doug do you have some plans to maybe quantify the companys progress towards its existing synergy targets when we see you at MINExpo?  Ill handle the first part of that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And probably Ill handle the second part too.
Inc.</strong>  Yeah.
That would be fine.
The first part is yeah well probably continue to report Bucyrus just as we are throughout the rest of this year.
Inc.</strong> Right.
They are for example not in our monthly dealer statistics from a disclosure standpoint.
and we would plan on doing that for example at the beginning of 2013 where you have good comparables.
So well continue to break it out certainly for the rest of this year.
And in terms of MINExpo we have an outline of at this point what were thinking about in terms of material to share at MINExpo.
Since it is MINExpo it will probably be a little extra emphasis on mining and Bucyrus is a piece of that that well talk about that.
Yeah.
Well put some definition around that and beside that our synergies plan and the business case is ahead of schedule as of today.
And well talk well get into some detail on that in the September for sure.
Inc.</strong> Well look forward to that.
Thanks Dough.
You bet.
We have time for one more question.
We have no further questions in the queue at this time.
All right well thank you very much everyone.
We are happy to report a great quarter and then increase in the outlook.
With that well sign off.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
I am Mike DeWalt the Director of Investor Relations.
And on the call today I am pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; Group President and CFO Ed Rapp and Brad Halverson who will be replacing Ed as Group President and CFO in January as Ed is transitioning over to be the Group President heading our Construction Industrys business.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning there is no doubt were going to be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC back on February 21 of 2012 and its also in the forward-looking statements language contained in todays release.
In addition we have a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and that can be found in todays financial release which has also been posted on our website at cat.com.
Okay.
Ill start this morning with a few top points that summarize this mornings release.
First we reported a good third quarter.
In fact it was the highest sales and highest profit of any third quarter in our history.
Sales and revenues were a little over $16.4 billion an increase of about 5% from the third quarter of 2011.
Profit in the quarter was $2.54 a share and that ties the second quarter of this year for the all-time record.
Profit was helped in the quarter though by a pretax gain of $273 million on the sale of a majority interest in our third-party logistics business and that happened in the third quarter.
Now incremental operating profit pull-through was extremely high in the quarter and that was okay if whether or not you adjust the logistics gain.
That said the sales increase in the quarter I think was small enough; the incremental margin in a quarter like this is probably not that useful a metric.
However there has been enough of the sales increase I think year-to-date forward to be a more useful metric and year-to-date its been over 30% and thats an indication of good cost control and execution on part of the company.
Now while we reported a good third quarter we did lower the full year outlook for 2012 and we provided preliminary sales and revenue guidance for 2013 and Ill cover both of those in a couple of minutes but first a little more color on the quarter.
And again lets start with sales and revenues up $729 million or about 5% from third quarter of last year.
Now when we look at sales there are three perspectives that we take.
The first perspective is by reason in other words was it changed due to volume price currency acquisitions and alike.
And from that perspective sales volume improved $622 million price realization was favorable $305 million acquisitions and divestitures and we actually had both it was a net positive of $36 million and financial products revenues were up $13 million.
Currency was negative on sales and it partially offset the increase by about $247 million and thats largely because the U.S.
dollar versus the Euro and Brazilian Real than in the third quarter a year ago.
The improvement in price realization at $305 million is lower than we reported in the second quarter but its held up pretty well this year and its been higher than we have expected most of the year.
The next where we look at are views the sales changes by geographic region.
And from that perspective North America was up 9% in the quarter.
Sales in Asia-Pacific rose 8% and EAME which is Europe Africa Middle East and Latin American sales were about flat.
The increase in North America was primarily driven by higher sales of construction equipment in the United States which has been a relative bright spot all year.
With expectations around U.S.
housing on demand were cautiously optimistic about construction sales in the U.S.
going forward.
I said a minute ago that it was a relative bright spot and that's because although its still improving its still well below the prior peak.
Within Asia-Pacific its a little bit of a different story.
Sales are up in the region overall despite lower construction equipment sales in China and thats because mining and power system sales have been up throughout the region.
And Latin America was about flat and so was EAME and while EAME was flat overall Europe was modestly lower and Africa and Middle East and the CIS moderately higher.
The third way that we look at sales is by segment and this quarter most of our sales increase was in the Resource Industries segment which is mostly mining and that was up 13% from the third quarter last year.
Power Systems was up 5% and most of that increase was related to the acquisition of MWM and then Construction Industry sales were about flat in the quarter.
Financial products revenues were up by about 3% and our all other segment was actually down 31% and most of that was a result of the sale of our third-party logistics business.
All right lets shift to third quarter profits which at $2.54 was a tie for the highest quarter ever.
Operating margin was 15.8% of sales and revenues and if you exclude the logistics gain it was 14.1%.
Cost control was good material costs were actually slightly favorable in the quarter and variable labor productivities held up pretty well this year.
When comparing profit to the third quarter of 2011 acquisition impacts had a pretty significant impact on operating margin and thats mostly two things.
The logistics gain was a plus in the third quarter of this year and then last year we had a lot of the upfront Bucyrus related cost related to that acquisition in the third quarter of last year.
So it's less of that from last year and the logistics gain this year.
On the negative side we had higher taxes all year long.
Our estimated annual tax rate for this year is 30.5% thats higher than the third quarter of last year and it's higher than the full year of 2011.
And thats really because of two things.
One is the absence of the R&amp;D tax credit that Congress has not yet renewed and geographic mix change in terms of where our profits are.
Okay thats a quick review of the third quarter.
Lets move on to the 2012 outlook.
In this mornings release we did lower the outlook for both sales and profit.
Were expecting 2012 sales and revenues of about $66 billion and profit in a range of $9 to $9.25 a share thats down from the previous outlook range on the top line of $68 billion to $70 billion and profit at $9.60 a share at the middle of the sales range.
Now at MINExpo about a month ago we said we were in the middle of our forecasting process and it was evident that sales estimates were going to come down.
Since then we have completed the forecast and we have another month of actual results under our belt.
And the sales outlook is down from July for two primary reasons.
First end user demand while better than a year ago is not growing as fast as we were expecting it would.
From a product standpoint its fairly widespread across construction mining and Power Systems.
And from a geographic standpoint its also spread across the globe.
The second reason for our decline today in the sales outlook is dealer inventory.
Based on the finished inventory that we have significant improvements weve made in delivery times to dealers and some moderating growth in end user demand our dealers find themselves with too much inventory.
In response theyve cut order rates to levels that are well below what theyre selling to end customers.
As a result in the fourth quarter well be reducing production levels quite a bit weve already announced a number of temporary plant shutdowns and therell be more coming.
It means that for the next quarter and into 2013 our production will be below end user demand.
By segment about two-thirds of the outlook decline is construction and the other third is split about evenly between mining and Power Systems.
Based on our new outlook of $66 billion of sales and revenues this year the fourth quarter will be just slightly below the third quarter of this year.
Now if you look at the decline in our profit outlook range of $9 to $9.25 range it is primarily result of the lower sales but partially offset by the gain on our third-party logistics business which happened in the third quarter.
Now in addition to 2012 and as we usually do at this time of the year we have provided the preliminary economic and sales outlook for 2013.
You can boil down what we are thinking about 2013 to a short statement and that goes both for economic environment and sales and that statement is that here she goes not much change from 2012.
Now as we look forward on the positive side in many countries around the world monetary and credit policies have eased over the past year and we do expect that to continue into 2013.
However economic growth has been slow to respond and we are not expecting any improvement in world economic growth until may be the second half of 2013.
And even then for the full year we are only expecting economic growth for the world of about 2.7% and thats just a couple of tens of a point above what we are expecting for this year.
In the developed world we continue to expect growth at levels that are well below potential at about 1.5% in total for the developed world with about 2% growth in the US and the Eurozone close to zero.
In the developing world we are expecting growth of about 5.5% thats about half a point better than 2012.
We think Brazil will continue to improve some and the Chinas growth rates will improve to about 8.5%.
Again to summarize of our view of the 2013 economic prospects were not expecting much change from this year.
We are not timed for a significant pickup in the world economy but that said we are also not expecting a recession.
We are expecting a continuation of the slow growth path the world seems to be on.
And now I will just repeat that for emphasis we are seeing expecting or reflecting the world being in recession in our outlook for 2013.
And based on our study as she goes slow growth economic outlook we are expecting 2013 sales and revenues to be roughly the same as 2012 and a band of about plus to minus 5%.
We are expecting our resource industry segment which is primarily mining to be down somewhat in 2013.
Lower metals and coals prices and the increasing operating cost have hurt the profit margins at many mining companies.
That profit pressure combined was economic uncertainty and slow growth has resulted in mining companies delaying some investment.
Although metals prices have recently improved we expect mining companies will reduce capital spending in 2013 and sales of mining equipment will decline.
However we expect the lower mining sales to be about offset by higher sales of construction equipment.
We are expecting some improvement in construction activity in the United States and you are already seeing some of that in housing.
Sales of construction equipment in China should also improve somewhat in 2013 after quite significant declines in 2012.
Now to be clear we're not expecting China to make up the ground that was lost in 2012 but we do expect some modest improvement from a very disappointing 2012.
We are seeing Brazil continue to improve and expect that construction equipment sales in the developing world in general will be a little better in 13 than 2012.
On the downside in construction we are not expecting economy recovery in Europe and are planning sales there to be lower.
For our third large segment Power Systems we're expecting sales to be roughly flat with 2012.
In terms of timing how we're thinking about sales first half versus second half.
Were not expecting a major economic pickup in the year and we're not expecting a big demand pick up next year.
But we and our dealers will be continuing to work off inventory early in the year which will probably cause early sales in 2013 to be a little bit weaker than the usual seasonality.
I am going to finish here this morning with the three main points we're trying to get across today in this call and in this morning in our release.
Point number one is we're doing a very good job of managing costs margins are good and incremental margins so far in 2012 have been much better than our goal of 25%.
Point two we recognize we have too much inventory and dealers are telling us they have too much inventory.
As a result were lowering production.
We've already announced widespread temporary layoffs and rolling factory shutdowns or temporary shutdowns and there is more coming.
It will take a little while to work down the inventory and that means that our production levels and sales will be lower than dealer sales to end users in the fourth quarter and into 2013.
The third and final key point that were making today is were taking a pragmatic steady-as-you-go view of 2013.
Were not saying or predicting a worldwide recession but if one happens we know what to do.
And as I mentioned a minute ago were already taking actions to lower production to deal with the inventory and were ready to do more if we need to.
On the flip side of that and this is also an important point were not banking on a big tick-up in the economy and if we get a better economy next year thats upside of the outlook.
So thats it.
So were ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Longbow Securities good morning everyone.
Can we get a little more into the production cuts and the timing of it at MINExpo you told us you were basically taking $2 billion out of the fourth quarter it looks like you took a little bit third and now gave us a little bit distribution.
Can you give us some quantification of how much production are you taking out this year and how much will go into next year so we can get a sense of the size of magnitude of whats going on? Yeah.
When we were at MINExpo we werent done with the forecast because at that it was pretty clear that it was going to come down.
Order rates for both mining and construction were lower.
For mining its been evident that customers wanted to lower CapEx next year and we were seeing that in our orders and it was becoming pretty clear despite decent sales to end users that dealers were reducing orders to cut inventory in the third and fourth quarter.
At MINExpo the sum of all of that looked around $2 billion; it ended up being more like $3 billion and thats the change that we have in the outlook.
So directionally we were pretty; I mean we knew which direction it was going to go.
We can see what was happening we have another month under our belt its going to be this year and there will probably be some reduction in the first quarter as well.
So that $3 billion is what you schedule for this year and somewhere on top of that or the $3 billion will spillover?  Well I wouldnt view the $3 billion as entirely inventory reduction; I think this $3 billion is a combination of inventory reduction and demand is not as high as we thought.
Just in general if you look at sales to end users still positive versus year ago and along those lines I would mention that the September number was a little weaker than you might have expected and thats because we have an extra weekend in September.
Well have more workdays in October so workdays were about 10% less than September.
But the point is even though sales to end users are up versus a year ago well in positive territory our expectation is that it was actually going to be a bit better than its turning out in the fourth quarter.
So the decline in the outlook is both inventory and increases in demand are a little less than we thought.
And a follow-up can you talk about mining being down next year; can you just give some kind of quantification whether that's double digit or single digit or some magnitude of how we should think about impact on the mining sector? Yeah Ill tell you what we don't the guidance by segment but if you were to look broadly at generally what mining companies are saying about CapEx I think the numbers that I have seen are sort of 5% to 10% and Ill give you some over the magnitude in the overall terms of what they are thinking.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Vance Edelson.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
Hi Morgan Stanley good morning.
A follow-up on that last question with the mining customers delaying some projects and reducing orders could you give us your feel for just how widespread this has already become; in other words do you have some customers that are taking the early steps perhaps they are acting quite concerned while others are still taking more of a wait-and-see approach or have the vast majority started to delay already? Vance its actually been going on some slight in the second quarter; it hasn't really changed too all for much here in the last month or two its a pattern thats continued.
I think basically what happened is mining companies actually have quite a bit in the order book already we have particularly for the long lead time mining products like large mining trucks we have pretty good order cover for next year and I think they are just taking a wait-and-see attitude to see what happens here with China and the U.S.
elections and to get some direction on next year before they start ordering again.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in the past you have referred to a potential inflection point in China.
Any update on when you might see that happening; does the first quarter of 2013 now seem too early given the backend weighted overall expectations that you have for next year? Well actually China has continued to be pretty weak.
In fact I would say thats one of the reasons why our finished inventory hasnt come down.
Maybe a little bit faster.
You know we were thinking we would start seeing at least a little bit of a pick up here in the fourth quarter.
Within the economy there they are going to accelerate some infrastructure spend.
Now they have taken monetary policy easing sentiment on the ground from the dealers is a bit better but in terms of translating it into sales I would say hasnt happened yet.
So the selling season is sort of mid-February on.
So probably not going to see much till then.
Mike let me add in here.
Its Doug Oberhelman.
I want to just add on China little bit.
Mike is exactly right.
We dont see anything concrete differently today than we have over the last few months.
However we were just there two weeks ago.
All of us with our Board of Directors were October meeting.
We met with all of our distributors in China and most of them in Asia and I would say for the first time that Ive talked to them in a while.
As Mike said the attitude is better and their outlook is better without concrete orders in hand however.
We heard I would say story after story of positive anecdotes from their customers inside China but none of them yet are on the order books that the presidential transition or the leadership transition happens in the first half of November.
Unanimously they all believe thats a water shedder that we all know that.
They also look for substantial change whatever that means by Chinese New Year which typically is a selling season over there anyway.
But these are anecdotes at this point but I would note that its the first positive anecdotes weve had across the board inside China in some time.
So we all are somewhat encouraged without any concrete things to put it in our pocketbook as yet.
And from the Chinese officials themselves are you hearing anything either directly or indirectly in terms of what they might focus on to the extent they try to spur growth do you think infrastructure for example or anything else that you could benefit from is going to be high on that list? Well theyve had the easing spec at open or almost all year weve seen increased levels of building permitting this year over last year.
Weve also seen in the last six weeks or so a major infrastructure effort announced.
I suspect all of that is aimed after presidential or leadership transition and most of thats aimed towards spring of next year which is kind of a confluence of events that around Chinese New Year but half of this is going to happen and if it doesnt were in for another kind of slow year in 2013.
But right now the hand the cards in the hand are looking better than they have for a while.
But not I would emphasize nothing concrete in terms of orders as yet.
As he said the only thing I would add to that in terms of the government officials is I think its quite clear from the discussions as theyre trying to moderate the stimulus maybe more effectively than they did back in the 08 09 timeframe where they felt things really got overheated.
And we look at that as a positive but there will be a point in time when we look back on 2012 and I think well be pleased with the fact that China slowed and put this thing under more control.
I guess its going to be better for our business better for our business model over the long pull.
Our next question today is coming from Steve Volkmann.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
I am wondering Mike can you share you gave us some data regarding your backlog and I am wondering if you could share your book-to-bill in mining specifically?   Well we dont we have never disclosed that we put out a backlog for the total company.
We dont even; we are not even splitting that by segments.
What I would tell you though is the decline in the backlog occurred in all three major segments I mean it wasnt all mining; it was a combination of mining construction and Power Systems.
And again most would have been construction and Power Systems and its mining companies are taking delivery certainly on products that they have ordered in fact our sales of mining equipment in the third quarter for Resource Industries were up 13% from a year ago.
But they are not ordering much.
Again I think they are taking a wait and see.
They have CapEx expectations next year that are a little bit lower than this year.
So we are seeing that in the backlog.
For construction its a little more about I think the short-term issue.
I mean with construction its not long lead time product no dealers try to keep on hand or have orders that are lets just say in the ballpark of delivery times from us so kind of a few month sales.
Its been orders on construction have been quite low over the past few months actually improving a little bit as we have gone through.
Well below their sales to end users the order rate.
So what that means is as those orders over the last quarter kind of move into our production schedules for the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
It means that there should be fairly significant reductions in the inventory.
And then again I think that's a temporary situation.
Dealers can't go on for very long time selling or ordering less than they are selling.
Well see that for probably a couple of quarters but then it has to move backup in line with selling rates.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess where I was trying to get out tough as to think about the mix shift as we get into 2013.
Are you seeing any cancellations I know you let that you allowed that at one point in a previous downturn is it that aftermarket is kind of holding in okay of that the [OE] side is weaker or is it more broad? Yeah I think the [OE] side is where I mean order rates are dropped I mean for parts we are shipping about 24 hours.
So our order backlog for parts is usually limited to about a day.
So it that doesn't really play much into the order backlog numbers.
The decline would definitely be OE and again we know we have pretty good visibility in the backlog.
We not had massive cancellations but I wouldnt say we haven't had any but the primary reason the backlog is come down as they have just eased off ordering.
I think its only to get a better picture for what next year is going to look like.
Our next question today is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
The first thing I was hoping to ask you is on the 2013 revenue guidance.
Could you just may be clarify is that a top down perspective or is that bottoms up having gone through their business segments dealer conversations and all the other things that would drive the bottoms up forecast? Its a little above.
I mean we do from the top down we do an economic forecast.
We try to translate that into what we think that means region-by-region sort of product-by-product category around the world.
And then we play in to that from a bottoms-up standpoint.
The uniqueness thats going on in individual products you have new products or youre having a particular push into a region do dealers have unique things going on in the territory.
So it's a little bit of a combination.
It's kind of a top down in economic view coupled with bottoms-up view of the territories and the products and the product dynamics.
So it's a little bit of both.
Okay.
So just and I realized you havent given any kind of formal guidance on or any guidance whatsoever for earnings for next year but just a little hand holding to think about the key variables; you did walked through sales mix next year and obviously mining you mentioned would be down which all equals the headwind and you mentioned some of the production issues.
But when we think through the key levers of variables could you just give us maybe some framework of how to think about mix next year and puts and takes? Yeah I can do a little bit of that.
Under the kind of qualification that we [havent] really provided profit guidance and to a large degree we're still working on the details of next years plan.
But certainly one of the things for sure you would have to take into consideration is in the third quarter of this year we had the third-party logistics sale gain.
That was $273 million pretax in the third quarter.
We're not going to sell that thing twice.
So that will definitely come out.
Sales mix as you mentioned that would lot likely be a little bit negative.
We have some decline in mining next year some increase in construction.
Well make a little more money in mining and well do construction.
So to your point that would not signal a positive sales mix.
Weve been investing for the future and our CapEx has been a little up probably a little bit less than $4 billion this year.
So that means the depreciation next year will be a little bit higher.
Kind of the flipside of that though is weve done a pretty good job on managing the factories; weve held our fixed cost growth so I think in terms of managing costs weve done a good job efficiency in the factories all-in is held up pretty well we do have some pricing next year we announced not huge but some price increase for next year that would certainly be positive.
I think those are probably some of the bigger things to think about.
I guess the last point that I would make is that this year even with what were expecting to take out in inventory in the fourth quarter well still end up this year with an inventory increase and we would certainly be planning on inventory decrease next year.
Order magnitude were still working on and that will likely be a little bit negative for profit as well.
So the last thing Ill ask Mike is just the guidance for 2013 revenue.
Could you give us a sense of how to think about what the embedded dealer inventory levels would be either year-on-year or versus normal ratios of inventory and sales? You mean how it would end next or just..
Yeah either where it would end or how we should think about that pattern next year or path? Yeah I think it depends a little bit on how next year plays out.
Dealer inventory by and large theyll have somewhere in the by historic standards around 3.25 months to 3.50 months of inventory.
So it will really depend upon what sales are looking like towards the end of next year in terms of how much they will have.
But I think if you look at selling rates today they have more than that a pretty good size a chunk of what we took out of not all of it certainly some of that will come from our inventory but we would expect to make pretty good reductions in dealer inventory in the fourth quarter probably again in first quarter but may be a little bit less than the fourth quarter not because they dont have more to do but because commonly in the first quarter dealers build inventory for the selling season.
So I think the specifics of how its going to play out by quarter will probably depend on next year and how confident dealers get in the second quarter but certainly down $ 1 billion or $2 billion from where they are at now.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andy Casey.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning everybody.
A couple of questions but first on CAT corporate cash flow inventory liquidation benefit from the inventory cut that you kind of forecast.
How much of that is coming from purchase material and work-in-process or are you considering rolling back some of the PDC inventory?  Well its actually a little above in fact if you look at the purchase content and our work-in-process and raw material inventory we actually took that down several hundred million dollars in the third quarter.
So in fact in the cash flow for the third quarter payables were a little bit less of a help and partly that's because weve cut the front end of that inventory pipeline.
I think if you look at what will happen in the fourth quarter it will probably less work-in-process and production stores in a bit more of the finished goods as we try to take that down.
Okay thanks Mike.
And then if I can go back to the topic of the day that mining equipment CapEx cycle last month you discussed the longer-term extension of the current mining investment cycle.
And then today although short-term you are talking about the 2013 backlog for orders from your customers are pretty full and you acknowledged 2013 CapEx may decline from 2012.
I am just trying to understand kind of where we are in the potential cycle and whether if nothing changes in 2013 in the macro environment do all the puts and take suggests that in 2013 you would see accelerating declines through the year or is it just kind of like you said in the overall revenue mix down first half up second half? Before I answer the point on mining this whole first half second half thing I would just like to clarify just a little bit.
We are not looking for a Hail Mary second half of the year; that is a big increase after a decrease in the first half; that is not what we were predicting we are not out there expecting a big economic recovery in the second half; its going to somehow save the year from a weak first half.
I think what were saying is its going to be bit of a whole probably is not the right word but a pretty stable year.
Our sales will probably be a little bit lower in the first half relative to the normal seasonality just because we're still working on dealer inventory.
So I think it's worth noting that we're not backing on a giant second half of the year to somehow bail the year out.
I think with regard to mining in general I would say we couldn't be more positive about the long-term potential for mining.
I mean the worlds population is continuing to go up more and more people are moving into the middle class as standard of livings improve.
Those are big commodity drivers.
I think long-term we're very comfortable with mining.
In the short-term there are economic swings.
The developed world particularly China are big incremental users of [Technical Difficulty] commodities.
In 2012 their growth rates tipped down and it's been negative at least for a while to commodity prices.
It's given miners an opportunity to take a breather.
And thats okay.
Thats a normal economic situation that happens.
That doesnt I don't think change the longer-term view of mining which in our view is actually quite positive.
So I think that next year should be a fairly steady as she goes year overall but with us probably selling a little less in the first half of the year because we know dealers are cutting inventory.
I don't know if that answered it but.
so maybe thats a little more long-term perspective on it but certainly how I see that at this stage today.
Our next question today is coming from Timothy Thein.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
First question just Mike to come back on segment mix specifically on Power Systems there is obviously a couple of different segments within there where the margins and returns can vary quite a bit but given your the outlook in the release on your expectations for brand averaging $110 a barrel next year would seem to be supportive for E&amp;P spending and obviously petroleum.
So can you maybe provide a little bit more color in terms of how youre currently thinking about mix within that the Power Systems number for 2013 to the extent you have? Yeah.
If we look at the lower level components actually were not forecasting a very significant change up or down in sort of those different end markets industrial marine oil and gas the forecast even by account lower level is not dramatically different.
So there is I would say the mix is probably maybe just a slight bit negative in that.
One of the segments that will probably have some growth after a pretty poor year in 2012 is industrial thats been down quite a bit so far this year.
I think thats looking at may be a little bit of improvement next year.
But even as I say that the change overall is fairly flat the change even below that level is not very dramatic.
Okay got you.
And just back on mining are you seeing any customer trade down in terms of product quality?   Well couple of very good question Ross couple of things one just in terms of shifting around customers we tend to be certainly the premium product there and although sales are depressed in China not very good weve tended to do a little bit better than the market overall so in a down market we are doing okay.
In terms of the inventory part of your question I think the way I would describe is we have made steady inventory reductions in China both us and dealers have finished inventory.
But its not been as fast as we would have thought and its not because we are producing anymore than we were expecting its because the sales have just remained pretty low.
We have not really seen a pickup there yet.
So a part of the inventory reduction that we were expecting as we march through the year we were thinking we would get a little bit of help from sales which isnt happening.
So I think if you look at how weak it is there.
My guess is the rest and I don't know their stuff our competitors dont report their inventories to me.
But if they are anything like us its probably a case where its going down but not as fast as we would all like.
I think it will its probably going to remain elevated until the selling season starts and that would probably begin mid-February that's the first opportunity I think for a more meaningful reduction.
Hey Rose this is Ed the one I want to add to that you know you asked about pricing side as we talked about before you are seeing a lot of if you would package merchandising.
I think the other thing we have seen happen in China is they try to business model in the way we work with cap finances really played out.
You do hear a certain amount of noise that our competition with their [struggles] on the receivable side but if you look at cap finances reported results for the third quarter very solid as (inaudible) down and then it just gets back to the discipline at which we run that business Yeah its Oberhelman.
I want to pile on again on China and inventory.
We have been reluctant to massively lower inventory suddenly and we are doing in a very measured way.
Most of our production there today is for export around the world.
We need more capacity; we have it today but frankly I am worried about any kind of recovery in China and not having inventory ready.
So we have done this in a very measured fashion all the way down this year and I would expect that to continue; while we want inventory down and were a bit high we cannot let us ourselves in to a position where we dont have inventory to match the market when it that recover and we will be there I suspect fairly soon and again it comes back to what happens with demand on the ground inside China going into 13 and well know this; were going to know this likely in the first quarter which way is it going.
And just a follow-up on your growth projects at MINExpo you made it clear that you had temporary delayed several of your projects.
Is thats still the case and in your outlook you mentioned GDP accelerating at 8.5% if you see signs of that really unfolding in the first half of the year till those projects come back on very quickly? We have slowed the expansion of our China facilities as I mentioned at MINExpo.
In fact we just laid that weve not and deferred that we havent cancelled it at all were going to look at again what happens in 13.
But as I said before on many occasions and Ill say again having just come back from China; China is under excavated on a per capita basis by any metric to the rest of the world.
So we know where thats going to go overtime and we have to be there with capacity.
So right now its a juggling act between how much do we lower inventory how much do we slow capacity expansion knowing full well that and I don't know if its six months one year two year or five years we're going to need a lot more than we have today.
And your second question I am sorry was  I forgot? I think you got most of it there.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
JPMorgan.
First just a clarification on the model how should we think about modeling the logistics business going forward it wasnt really clear in the press release or in any of the Q&amp;As? Ann with the logistics business okay we have actually several things going on with acquisitions and divestitures.
Weve bought Siwei in the quarter thats a Chinese underground coal company; a year ago we bought MWM or not quite a year ago and then we sold a part of the logistics business so there are pieces coming in and pieces going out.
I think for the logistics piece in and of itself if you look at our all other segments most of the sales decline there was logistics its a bit little less than $100 million a month in terms of sales but then again we have an add-on for Siwei as well.
So we have things that are going in both directions overall certainly from a topline perspective the net of them isnt going to be a big difference next year.
So in other words when we talk about our expectations then next year is kind of plus or minus the same as this year we didnt mention acquisitions because we have some coming in and some going out.
Yeah.
Just to as we know where Siwei goes we know where MWM goes but there is just no reference to so you said logistics is about $100 million in sales per month? No its less its a bit less than that; you can look at our release today based on when we sold it we had absence of about two months of sales; it would have been less than $200 million in the quarter impact.
Okay thats somewhat helpful.
And then my second question is you had noted that in order to reduce inventories particularly in China that you are going to have to use some marketing programs? Yeah.
Can you talk both about what kind of marketing efforts you are having to make in China to liquidate the inventories and also are we looking now at very broad based marketing dollars being spent to move products all over the world both out of dealer inventory and out of your inventory?  I think the best guy to answer that question is going to be the new Head of our Construction business sitting to my right here? Yeah Ann yeah I would say in China today you have a fairly broad based portion in terms of the merchandizing programs and kind of as we reported last time a good portion of that is coming through the packaging of different offerings all the way from financing to trade and allowances to those types of things.
And I think that as Doug said earlier we are seeing some good results relative to our position in that market because it really plays to the strength of our business model.
Yeah weve slowed some of the capital as we talked about in China but we havent slowed the build out of that business model dealer locations building out our services be it insurance or financing building out the product support side of it the things like logistics capability and re-man so we continue to build out that business model.
So going after that complete merchandizing package really does I would say play to our strengths.
I think in terms of how thats playing out around the world its a bit different in different parts of the world depending on what segment you are operating in.
As you have seen year-over-year progress in the States; sales these are still with a pretty good growth trade.
We talked about Europe being weak but Africa Middle East and CIS holding so there is different play out depending on the different geographies around the world.
But you have seen third quarter overall price realization was quite positive.
Okay.
And just while I have you on the line curious just what the thinking was and in terms of moving the headquarters for the Construction business out of Hong Kong which is obviously closer to China to Singapore was there any reason for that in particular? Ann I would say its two-fold.
First of all also included an announcement is the appointment of Qihua Chen as an officer based in Beijing; Ill tell you one of our great leaders and I would say a great leader and just happens to be Chinese.
And so having an officer on the ground in China is a huge step forward and he will play a great role.
The other reason is that if you go back in history we really moved our Asian operation headquarters to Singapore; its where we got a bigger concentration of our people product managers to purchasing organizations those kinds of resources.
So it puts me right smack in the middle of that.
Trust me I fully understand its a mailbox because a good portion of the time is being spend on the road but those of us do thinks really to that decision.
Thank you.
Our next today is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Its Vertical Research and good morning everybody.
I just had two quick questions on mining.
Have you seen any reduction in hours run on mining equipment and do you expect any forecast on the diminution and how you see the growth or contraction parts whether to a de-stocker or cut hours and second are you allowing cancellations I mean you had been at one point I think kind of sold out for 13.
I know you allowed push outs.
So I am just curious if you allowed any cancellations or whether just that the clients seemed a little bit surprising given how robust the backlog had been.
So I just wanted to see if the stuff have been pushed over to 14 or cancelled? Yeah Rob just comment on the whole hours work question.
I think if we use our aftermarket business as probably a reasonable indicator of that.
It would tell us that activity levels and actually if you look at mine production levels as well they look pretty good.
I think the one place where thats not the case where versus a year ago it's actually down is eastern coal in the US.
So actually thats the one spot of weakness certainly in the aftermarket a part of it.
In terms of your cancellation question yeah there have been some cancellations.
It's not been usually significant.
For the most part what customers have done it is two things.
One; you can see this based on the backlog there is not a lot of new order activity for new equipment and of course the aftermarket piece is just cycled through.
And two we had some pushed outs; we had some sales shipments that we would have thought would have come in the fourth quarter of this year that our pushed in the 13 some from the 13 pushed beyond that.
So it's a combination of lower orders and some delays not big cancellations.
Rob this is Ed.
You wondered about the cancellations as you mentioned in the past.
Weve openly communicated to our dealers that the order cancellations in the late 08 timeframe was an anomaly or an exception.
Its the liquidity crisis no one was certain where it was going to end up and so we made some steps there its not part of our ongoing practices with our dealers and we want them to understand the risk that comes with the ordering process to keep good honesty in the order board.
And also as weve talked openly we dont see a recession coming in 2013 we see things a lot differently than we did in that period.
So like I said an exception to our standard ordering practice back in 08 and 09 youre seeing us now move back to more of our standard practice.
Okay.
I think we have time for one more question.
Our final question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Mike maybe I could ask you about the western hemisphere in terms of construction obviously the US market has held up better than some other markets.
Have you seen any order slowdown from dealers in that market? And you talked about growth in the market next year confidence level around that I noticed your housing start number was pretty good too? Yeah.
A couple of things sales to users in lets say North America the rate of growth has slowed down a little bit now again September its a little bit unusual we had four weekends last year in September the way the calendar fell this year we had five so the flipside of that it will happen in October.
So September I think because of the calendar was probably a little weaker month.
But if you go back to the fourth quarter of last year North America was up like close to 50% I mean it was up a lot there was I think a little bit of probably extra buying in the sales to users because of the depreciation rules at the time probably a little bit of a pull forward if you will under the fourth quarter I think particularly the dealer a dealer level.
So I would fully expect that if you are looking at year-over-year growth rates I expect those growth rates to come down a little bit in North America; that doesnt mean that sales to users or kind of sequentially seasonally adjusted getting worst it just means that the fourth quarter of last year was quite a bit better than the second third quarter a year ago.
We are reasonably constructive on US in terms of construction activity housing really does seem to be on demand I mean its not blooming but it really seems to have turned to corner and is getting a little better.
So that should help if we can get this election and year end tax and spending cliff dealt with I think there is opportunity for comps even to get a little bit better.
So I think we are fairly constructive you said the western hemisphere so I will move to Latin America.
In Brazil which is one of our more important countries in Latin America in terms of sales weve had a pretty steady improvement year-over-year in terms of sales to end users.
I mean the government there has been constructive I think on monetary and credit policies.
We have seen our sales to users or dealers delivers to end users get better.
But I think we are I would say we are reasonably positive on that as we move forward as well.
I dont know Andy that I answered all your questions.
Inc.</strong>  You did Mike just one America you know your sales were still down sequentially I mean is the Argentina that sort of run its [close] or you just havent been delivering a lot there but I think that stopped sort of in February of this year somewhere that should have easily compares there as you go forward? Yeah Argentina has been just quite severe declines there.
And I think if you look at our sales in Latin America too you have a little bit of a different situation.
The construction business in Brazil dealers have actually been cutting inventory there a little bit actually in the country of Brazil the inventories went down a little bit in the quarter.
So our sales there are little bit less then real demand already.
And on that as the demand continues to increase there and the dealers get their inventory in line at some point here orders and sales of hours we will start matching and we will get close to that user demand so that's a temporary thing.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just real quickly.
You said as profitability a little lower sequentially looks like less than 5%.
Usually they have a strong fourth quarter so is that kind of what we were anticipating here that one of the reasons why operating cost it was lower? Yeah I think our view of this [hour] if you look at what happened in the fourth quarter a year ago just a shift in their both sales and profitability going from third to fourth there is an up tick they just historically have made a higher portion of their profit in sales in the fourth quarter so we would be looking for that to improve in the fourth quarter as well.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Full-year and Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and well open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.<br> It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning and welcome everyone to our year-end earnings call.
Im Mike DeWalt Caterpillars Corporate Controller and Director of Investor Relations.
On the call today Im pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and our Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.<br> This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.<br> This morning well be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC back on February 21 of 2012 and also in the forward-looking statements language contained in todays release.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our financial release and thats been posted on our website at caterpillar.com.<br> Okay.
This morning before we get into the Q&amp;A Im going to cover four topics.
The first will be a short summary of the full-year of 2012; then Ill take a few minutes to discuss how we ended the year compared with what we expected in our outlook for 2012 that we issued back in October.
Our third topic will be a comparison of the fourth quarter of 2012 with the fourth quarter of 2011 and then Ill finish-up with my final topic which is a discussion about our 2013 outlook.
Then Ill turn the floor over to Doug Oberhelman and Doug will take a few minutes to talk about our Siwei acquisition.<br> All right lets get started with 2012 and we were very pleased there was report this morning that it was another record year for both sales and revenues and profit.
Sales and revenues were $65.9 billion and that was an increase of 10% from 2011.
Profit was $8.48 a share and that was up 15%.
Now the $8.48 per share for the year did include the goodwill impairment charge of $580 million or $0.87 a share and we announced that back on January 18.
At $65.9 billion sales and revenues were lower than we expected when we were at this point about a year ago in January 2011 with our first outlook.<br> After a great first half the economies around the world began to slow around mid-year and as a result dealer sales to end users began to flatten out.
We found ourselves with inventory that was too high and dealers also found themselves with too much inventory.
As a result dealers slowed orders and in the third quarter we began the process of scaling back production.
Now while production declined somewhat in the third quarter we took it down much more in the fourth quarter and because of that we were able to reduce inventory in the fourth quarter by $2 billion far surpassing our goal of reducing inventory by about $1 billion.<br> Now in addition to the $2 billion that we took out in the fourth quarter dealers also reduced inventory by about $600 million in the quarter.
So in combination with our inventory and dealer machine inventory a total of $2.6 billion came out in the fourth quarter.
Thats a lot of inventory coming out in one quarter and it was certainly a negative for sales efficiency and the impact of cost absorption.
Now turning back to the full year from an operational standpoint 2012 was a good year.
We've been providing a table near the back of our financial release each quarter this year highlighting our incremental operating profit pull through.
Now when we show that we try to make it apples-to-apples and to do that we've been adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and divestitures.
And on that basis our full year incremental operating income was 43% of incremental sales and revenues.<br> Now that 43% was helped by currency impacts over the course of 2012 and excluding those items it was 33% still much better than our goal of about 25%.
Now in addition to operating income we continue to improve quality safety measures and our sales improved faster than the overall machine industry in general.<br><br>Finally in response to the weaker economic climate we found during the second half of the year we've slowed down capital spending.
Our CapEx for 2012 was about 3.4 billion and that's over $0.5 billion under our original expectations for 2012.
Okay that's a quick review of 2012.
Let's move on to the second topic and that's how we did versus the outlook we've provided last October.<br><br>Last October we were expecting 2012 sales and revenues to come in at about 66 billion and with actual sales and revenues of 65.9 billion; we were right about on what we thought.
Our outlook for profit at that time was a range of $9 to $9.25 with a midpoint of $9.13.
We ended the year at $9.48 so we missed the outlook.<br><br>There were two large items that we didn't anticipate in the outlook; one negative and one positive.
The negative item was the 580 million or $0.87 a share goodwill impairment related to Siwei.
The positive item was the settlement of U.S.
tax returns and that was a 300 million or $0.45 per share positive.<br><br>Excluding those two large items again neither of which was anticipated in our outlook profit was $0.10 per share lower than the bottom of our range and about $0.23 per share below the middle of the range.
About two-thirds of the difference from the $9.13 midpoint was the cost impact from the more substantial production and inventory cuts in the fourth quarter.
Most of the remaining difference was from currency translation losses reported in the other income and expense lines below operating profit and that was related to the euro primarily.<br><br>While the scale of production and inventory reduction was certainly negative to efficiency and profit we're pleased with what we achieved in terms of inventory reduction.
It's been a major focus throughout the company over the last couple of quarters and it was an exceptional result.<br><br>Okay let me move on to my third topic this morning and that's the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter a year ago.
Sales and revenues of 16.1 billion or about 1.2 billion or 7% lower than the fourth quarter of 2011.
While there were certainly pluses and minuses the most significant factor in the sale change was the inventory.
The others add about 800 million to inventories in the fourth quarter of '11 which was positive for sales back then and in the fourth quarter of '12 they reduced their machine inventories about 600 million and that was a negative.<br><br>In total then the impact on sales of dealer inventory changes was about 1.4 billion and that was more than the total change in our top line.
Our profit per share in the quarter was $1.04 and that's lower than the $2.32 per share that we reported in the fourth quarter of 2011 by about $1.28.<br><br>As with the full year numbers the Siwei goodwill impairment was negative $0.87 a share and the tax settlement was positive $0.45.
Other unfavorable factors in order of importance were manufacturing costs and they were unfavorable 417 million and that was primarily a result of the significant impacts of the decline in production in the fourth quarter and the $2 billion inventory reduction.<br><br>Sales volume was negative 371 million.
Tax impacts and this is excluding the 300 million positive item were unfavorable $0.36 a share.
We had a higher tax rate and absence of favorable items from a year-ago.
Other income and expense again which is below operating profit was negative $136 million.
And thats essentially the absence of currency gains a year-ago versus losses in the fourth quarter of 12.<br><br>Now one positive factor that partially offset those negative items was price utilization and that was a positive for the quarter.
Now on our  in our release today on page 6 we have a waterfall chart that goes through the changes in operating income and that can provide a little more detail.<br><br>All right thats the fourth quarter my final topic this morning here is the outlook for 2013.
We will start with economics.
And from that standpoint we do see conditions improving and expect world economic growth of at least 2.5% in 2013 and that would be a small improvement from our estimate of about 6.3% for 2012.
I think the key phrase here when we talk about the world economy in 2013 is a bit better but still weak.<br><br>In the United States were becoming increasingly optimistic.
The feds interest rate policies and their plan that continue injecting liquidity are in our view positive for 2013 growth.
We are expecting the U.S.
economy to grow at least 2.5% in 2013.
Now thats now when any of us would consider a robust level of growth but its certainly than what we saw  better than what we saw in the second half of 2012.<br><br>We expect the U.S.
housing industry to help the economy in 2013 and weve all seen the positive news items related to housing over the past few months.
In Europe were expecting another tough year for growth.
The problems in Europe are well known and much of the region is entrenched in fiscal austerity.
As a result we expect growth in the eurozone to struggle to match 2012 and we expect that construction activity there will decline.<br><br>One more positive about the prospectus for the developing economies around the world in many countries theyve been easing policy and lowering rates for more than a year and average rates today are close to levels that were last reached during the financial crisis.
So we expect that contributes to better growth in 13.
Specifically in China were expecting improvement in 2013.
In response to the 2012 slowdown the Chinese government did accelerate its credit growth in infrastructure spending and as a result the economic data that weve seen in the fourth quarter has begun to improve.<br><br>Our outlook assumes that Chinese government will maintain pro-growth policies throughout 2013 and were expecting the economic growth in China to be near 8.5% a more favorable environment for construction and higher commodity demand.
Okay thats a quick look at our economic view.
Lets turn to sales and revenues.<br><br>Were expecting sales and revenues to be in a range of $60 billion to $68 billion reflecting both upside and downside potential from 2012.
Were increasingly optimistic that there may be potential for better growth ahead but we remain cautious about how quickly that improvement in going to translate into higher sales for Cat.
At the $64 billion middle of that outlook range were expecting overall end-user demand to be relatively flat with 2012.
We do expect pluses and minuses by segment and Ill cover that in a minute but overall demand relatively flat.
At the mid-point of the outlook though we do have $2 billion decline in sales and revenues from 2012 and thats primarily a result of dealer inventory changes.<br><br>Over the course of 2012 dealers added about $1 billion to their inventories and in 13 our expectation is that dealers will reduce inventory by well over $1 billion so the net of that is an unfavorable impact on sales of over $2 billion.
By segment we expect sales in resource industries which is mostly mining to decline.
As we said last October mining customers have been lowering their CapEx expectations for 2013 and order levels have been very weak since the middle of 2012.<br><br>Another sales negative next year is going to be in our all other segment.
In terms of sales is very small and we usually dont have much to say about it but over the first-half of the year we expect it to be about $400 million lower than in sales and revenues from the first half of 2012 and that's due to the absence of sales from our third-party logistics business which we sold in July of 2012.<br><br>We expect sales in our Power Systems segment to be relatively flat with 2012.
And on the positive side we expect that Construction Industry sales will be flat to up in 2013 with improving end-user demand.<br><br>In summary on sales at the middle of our outlook range dealer inventory changes are driving the most significant piece of the reduction in sales.
For profit we're expecting a range of $7 to $9 a share.
Profit in 2012 with $8.48.
So at the middle of the range we have profit declining $0.48 a share.<br><br>Negative items include absence of the tax settlement that was 300 million in the fourth quarter absence of about a roughly $275 million gain from the third quarter related to the sale of our third-party logistics business.
The 2 billion decline in sales with higher depreciation.<br><br>Now if you look at costs and price realization together excluding depreciation so price net of cost we would expect that to be overall relatively neutral next year.
We do have a big positive item and that's absence of the $0.87 per share impairment charge that we recorded in the fourth quarter.<br><br>Now my final point here on the outlook is really about the first quarter and while we're not providing specific sales and profit outlook for the quarter we are expecting that sales and revenues are likely to be significantly lower in the first quarter of 2012.
Now to put it in perspective let's think about the full year.
At the middle of our outlook range we expect sales and revenues to be down about 2 billion for the year and it looks like all or more of that 2 billion is likely to be in the first quarter.
And that's the result of further reductions in production from the fourth quarter and we and our dealers continue to work down.
<br><br>As a result profit is also expected to be significantly lower than the first quarter of 2012 again a result of the lower sales and some negative cost impact from continuing to reduce production and take out inventory.
Okay that's my review.<br><br>With that thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
It's Doug Oberhelman.
I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about the $580 million impairment charge that we announced on January 18 related to our acquisition of Siwei and I'll start by going over some background.<br><br>Siwei's a company located in China and they make hydraulic roof supports that are used in underground coal mining.
China is the world's largest coal producer and the vast majority of it is mined underground.
The acquisition of Siwei is a starting point for Caterpillar entering into the Chinese underground coal business.<br><br>We've completed the acquisition in June 2012 and in about that time as we do with Caterpillar we moved experienced Cat people into our newly acquired company to start the process of bringing Siwei into the Caterpillar family.
In the fall we started a physical inventory and reconciled or I should say attempted to reconcile the physical inventory with the books.<br><br>Our newly appointed team with Siwei found a substantial discrepancy which led to our investigation.
What we discovered was deliberate multiyear coordinated accounting misconduct at Siwei.
It was executed by several senior managers at Siwei for the purpose of inflating sales understating costs and over-reporting profit and it included fabricated documentation designed to cover their tracks.<br><br>In light of this new information we had to take a goodwill impairment charge which was included in our fourth quarter results that we reported this morning.
The conduct we discovered does not represent in any way shape or form the way Caterpillar does business or how we expect our employees to work.
As a result we moved quickly and decisively to hold responsible the leaders that were directly accountable for the wrongdoing and we've changed the leadership at Siwei.<br><br>Because this happened at an acquisition we made in China it's raised questions in the media about our strategy in China and I'd like to address that.
China is the largest country in the world by population.
It's developing rapidly and it's one of the fastest growing large economies in the world.
Its already the worlds largest market for construction equipment and has a large mining industry.
Its a very important market now and as we look to the future we expect it to become even more significant.
While the industries we serve in China are significant it doesnt mean there are challenges.
The construction industry in China had a tough year in 2012 as in other countries the construction and mining industries in China are subject to changes in the overall economy and over time move with the business cycle.
You dont have to look any further than U.S.
housing to see that cyclicality happens in countries other than China.<br><br>Our strategy in China has served around bringing our products services support capability manufacturing scale supplier development procurement product development and distribution to China for the long-term.
That will continue.
The impairment at Siwei doesnt change there.
China is the worlds leading coal producer and the products we make at Siwei are important for that industry.
We will develop and improve those products for use in China and for export and we intend to add more products to better serve the Chinese coal mining industry.<br><br>While we look at Siwei we felt we could make improvements with Caterpillars experience and people and given our strategic imperatives this deal make sense.
In fact weve already made good progress on significantly lowering Siweis most significant cost driver steel.
The ability to lower steel cost is just one example of leveraging Caterpillar scale and global network to improve Siweis operation.<br><br>Our announcement of the accounting misconduct in impairment is something that no CEO wants to make.
Its disappointing one we better not have had to deal with but when faced with challenges like this its how we respond that defines us.
We talk a lot about accountability at Caterpillar and I sure have preached that here in the last three years as CEO.
I recognize the decision to acquire Siwei happened on my watch and the buck stops at my desk.
Im accountable for that acquisition.<br><br>There has been a tremendous amount of time energy and resources dedicated to this investigation up to this point and were not done.
Were putting in more effort to finish our investigation as we do with processes and products at Caterpillar were constantly looking for improvement.
We will imply what we learn from this as we go forward.<br><br>One final point we were deliberately misled by the accounting misconduct at Siwei and we're considering all options to recover our losses and hold those responsible accountable for their wrongdoing.
Related to that we have a long standing policy not to comment on pending or contemplated litigation and further comment is not appropriate at this time.
That means we won't be going into more detail on this subject when we take your questions about 2012 results and the 13 outlook.
With that Ill turn it back over to thanks Doug.
With that were ready to go into Q&amp;A good question David and honestly we dont -- we dont track it as a percent of sales.
What were targeting is inventory returns which is essentially related to cost of sales not so much sales although of course theyre tied together.
I think to a large degree where -- in terms of dollars where we end up on inventory at the end of 2013 will kind of depend to some degree on where we're at in terms of the outlook if we're at the bottom of the outlook or the top of the outlook.
I suspect that the inventory number will look different.
If you just start with where we are today in terms of inventory there's more to come out in the first quarter.
I certainly don't think it will be on the scale.
We're not predicting it will be on the scale of what came out in the fourth quarter $2 billion the guidance by segment if I look at Construction Industries you said flat to up slowly and you used 3% Power flat.
I assume all other pull-out Cat logistics and this small number call it flat after you pull that Cat logistics out.
It would seem to be implying Resource Industries is down call it 10% 11% a couple of things.
One we gave general direction on the segments and I think the way you've described it in terms of general direction is absolutely correct.
Resource Industries is going to have again other than absent the logistics really all the decline.
How that squares up with orders we're starting the year with actually a reasonable backlog for the big product but we do need to take  we need to take on more orders over the course of the next maybe two quarters to make the forecast.
So it's not a case where orders can stay at the level that they have been during the second half of '12.
So it will need to go up.
But it looks to us like the bottom is actually the third and the fourth quarter of last year.
We've already seen pretty substantial pickup in construction orders in the fourth quarter.
Most of the decline in orders that we saw I think in 2012 and the second half of the year on construction was related to dealers wanting to take out inventory.
Hope that helps.
David that's a real mouthful Jerry.
I think in general I would say we're cautious on the pricing next year.
Our outlook reflects something around 1%.
We did better than that in 2012.
I think we were actually a bit surprised as we went through the year at how well pricing held up.
We don't have a big difference looking forward to next year between the segments.
We have small improvements baked into each of them nothing big.
I think given another year of relative weakness in the global economy I mean my goodness 2.5% is nothing to jump up and down about in the world economy it's pretty weak.
I think we're sounding a fairly cautious tone on pricing but by the same token we're not trying to be alarmist here.
It's not as though you have big cuts anyway Mike just a little bit on kind of our business model and strategy and we are really working on market share to build population around the world to make sure that that cedes our business model.
And that plays also into the kind of pricing philosophy we had because we're trying to juggle that much better as we go after an increasing field population which then drives our aftermarket drives our dealers in terms of 2014 but you did lay out 2015 long-term target we had massive orders I mean very large orders in mining throughout much of a 11 and really through almost the entire first half of 12.
Thats when sentiment changed I think in the world economy it was evident in China it was softer you had an easing of commodity demand although overall mining activity actually did go up in 12.
So orders on hand were quite significant and over the past six months customers have really eased off on ordering.
It did started to pick up a little bit late in the fourth quarter but its certainly not what wed consider to be at a sustainable level that means to go up from here.
But right now we have good availability so when the order rate start to move back up a bit we will certainly be in a position where we can take care of the customers.
For  again for the large product we dont have certainly 100% coverage for 2013 so we didnt need to take in orders both for kind of filling up year in 2013 and for 2014.
So I think we would want to see some continued improvement in order rates really between now and mid-year can you just say you said it picked up a little in the fourth  late in the fourth quarter.
Can you just talk about which area specifically within mining that you saw that? Geographically by commodity no and partly because it's relatively small I mean Im not trying to make a big deal about it.
We went from  lets say very low to low.
So in copper you saw that in our outlook statement.
If that happens of course that will help the order rates as the miners respond to that.
A lot of which is dependent on world growth as it goes through the year as well and if that would be above our 2.5% rate on a global basis we probably would expect that go up but if it's lower wed probably not see it come back as fast.
So theres really a high correlation there but we did put out $135 ore price.
So I think in some ways I think that the year-over-year trend at least if were looking at order rates for construction have more to do with dealer inventory than actual demand levels.
I think it's a case where  think about it if youre a dealer and you want to lower inventories the way you do that is you lower order rates below what youre selling and then we ship you less and then you lower your inventory.
So thats what happens really beginning in the third quarter.
Construction orders were very weak in the third quarter and that means our production levels in the fourth quarter went down and dealers cut out inventory.
So the order level is always -- order of magnitude three four months ahead of where our production levels are.
So what that means is that's helpful.
Thank you.
And then on the inventory reduction that you saw this quarter was the Siwei adjustment the slowdown that you're seeing or the cancellations I mean order rates over the last six months in mining have been very low.
I mean if you think about it at about midyear we have a very large backlog as a result of the year and a half of very high orders.
And really for the last half of 2012 this is Brad Halverson.
I think if you look at our range we've been down this path before.
We do see some positive news as we've mentioned in our release.
North America is getting stronger.
At Cat Financial we've finished the fourth quarter strong with retail financing up and frankly past dues at the lowest level they've been since 2007.
But if you look at the last two years we've been in this path with good momentum in the first half of the year fiscal cliff issues debt ceiling issues election issues China is slowing down and so in our industry we're prepared for both sides and that's why we have a wide range.
And I think when we get through the first quarter sorry.
You mentioned that there was a pickup in orders in the back half of the -- at the very end of the fourth quarter.
And I'm just wondering where do we see that in your dealer stats? From what I saw what I meant to say was that for construction in particular orders later in the fourth quarter picked up.
Again that's what they're ordering it was down to 1%.
And I think there are two reasons for that or two  I'm sure there are definitely many more but the two that stand out are in the fourth quarter last year we had just a very very large pickup between November and December in North America up more than 50% in one month.
And I think a lot of that or some of that anyway had to do with the bonus appreciation that was expiring at the end of last year so I think that helped out dealer sales a bit in the fourth quarter of last year.
So I think between that and coal mining sales being down a bit that in December that really amounts I think for most of the decline.<br><br>Thanks Theoni.
Next question it seems as though you have a little bit of mining inventory at dealers which I dont think is typical although an in-transit assembly and so are you able to quantify that or comment on it? And the related question to that is it seems as though despite all the noise on mining CapEx and there is clearly cancellations and push outs in a more cautious atmosphere it seems as though the top 10 or 15 miners are only spending down 10 or 15  5% or 10% excuse me in 13 versus 12 the order sound a lot worse than that.
So I guess there is a question did the Companys over order and there is lot of inventory sloshing around either on mine sites or at dealers and at the normal level is actually based on CapEx as it stands now is higher than now or not? So there is a lot wrapped up into that Rob.
But I think there are a couple of differences between order rates and mining CapEx.
First off I mean we come into the year still with for the large products in particular reasonable order backlog.
So that is reflective of that plus whatever new orders we take in what were actually going to sell.
Whats happened and those dealers have low or  dealers and customers have order  mining orders over the last six months a bit of thats come out of the backlog.
So I think there is a little bit of the difference because of that.
Your point on dealer inventory is also actually a good one.
We dont usually have dealer inventory in that normal way you would think about it where we ship a bunch of trucks to a dealer they put them together and set them on the lot and wait for a customer to come by.
It doesnt normally happen that way.
But we do have substantial dealer inventory and thats essentially a pipeline.<br><br>Now with activity levels with sales levels coming down that wed expect a part of the decline in dealer inventory actually quite a bit of it next year to be related to mining.
So what that means is what the miners would have as CapEx is what they would be buying from dealers not what were selling to dealers.
So I think their CapEx numbers probably are going to look a little bit better than our sales number because some of them will be out of dealer inventory on hours run on mining equipment has it come off at all and I know Central Appalachia is a little down but if you look to your global I dont know the answer to that if I did Id give an indication but I dont.
I did know that parts volume around coal mining is down but in terms of hours elsewhere Im sorry but in China remember they normally have a pretty good selling season in the spring it's sort of disproportionate with the rest of the year in terms of seasonality.
We have really not taken much inventory our dealers have taken a bit of inventory out of China over the last quarter but weve not taken much inventory out.
If you look at our $2 billion decline in the fourth quarter actually very little of that had anything to do with China.
Our view is that that will be a first and second quarter phenomena as we go through the selling season.
We're keeping production levels in China pretty low so that we can use the selling season to kind of soak up the inventory that's there.
But certainly that was actually the President of LiuGong and also confirmed by comments on excavators in particular.
And then can you talk about in general reducing your inventories are you having to use financial services as a way of incentivizing sales in anyway and I feel like in a little TV commercial we're doing it the old fashion way.
If you think of inventory as a bucket with water flowing in and water flowing out we've severely restricted the water flowing in.
So we have really lowered production.
That's the main driver of inventory down.
There is no fire sale of finished inventory going on no.
I mean if you just think about it in context sales to users have been relatively flat.
We've lowered -- dealer lower orders rates we lowered production our inventory is going down dealers are receiving less materials Ann.
Next question Inc.</strong><br><br>Mike can you talk about the Bucyrus business in particular maybe talk about its execution.
Sales were up in the quarter but margins were still I think pretty low I mean there's a lot of moving parts in Bucyrus.
I'll make a few generalizations overall to kind of maybe frame it for the future.
There is a lot that we're working on there a lot of benefits that we're working hard to deliver.
One of the things that we talk a lot about is putting Cat components in Bucyrus product and we have what we've done that for some of the products we've done that for some of the hydraulic shovels have availability at Cat engines that engineering work goes on.
So on one hand there is a lot of extra engineering spend going on right now Bucyrus to get that done.
That's a big positive for the long term that we don't have completed yet and aren't really seeing much of the benefits.
So that's sort of one point.<br><br>We are in the middle of selling off to the dealers Bucyrus distribution and again that's a good positive for the long run for us.
That puts one of the world's premiere distribution and service organizations the Cat dealer network squarely in the middle of driving aftermarket sales for that product.
But we're still in the middle of doing that.
In the short term immediately after you do that after you sell distribution to a dealer they have essentially bought profit stream and they have margin and our margin goes down.
So while we're in this process of transferring the distribution to Cat dealers and they're ramping up and making improvements and we're putting inventory in place there is going to be a bit of a lag between the time that we lose margin because they bought it and the time where the good things that they can bring to it generate higher sales.<br><br>So I think we'll probably be in a period for a year or two where we would think of sort of normalized -- I would hate to use that word but if you look at the rest of the mining business you have much higher margins.
Because of the extra engineering work the process of selling distribution to the dealers Inc.</strong><br><br>Mike that's helpful.
If I could step back and ask you maybe slightly more philosophical question.
If I ask you about lean inventory strategy like this is sort of the first - I dont know if you want to call it mini downturn or whatever it is you know there's always things you can do to improve it.
I think lean inventory right now despite everything that we took out in the fourth quarter lean inventory did not  it was a piece of the total but it wasnt the major piece of the total.
I think we still and I talked about this a little bit ago there is still too much inventory in China and again the post Chinese New Year selling season we think well take care of much of that.
Outside of that generally speaking its our view that the lean inventory is by and large theyre about the right level based on what we think were going to sell.<br><br>Weve got a good performance in terms of shipping out of Lane One and I think that is certainly going to be a contributor to dealers being able to take out some more inventory.
So its like all things there are things you can do better this is Brad Halverson maybe I will make one quick comment here.
As dealers start to reduce their inventory it really kind of delayed the benefit that of all the actions that we really started on mid-year and were really happy with the inventory reduction that came out in the fourth quarter.
As we move forward Inc.</strong><br><br>Thanks I think you probably all read our announcement regarding Gerard Vittecoq our Group President who is retiring in May of 2013.
Weve asked him and a small team of very deep experts on everything from lean manufacturing to integrated supply chain to order to delivery to really study where were right now and deliver by May timeframe a vision and strategy to really take us into world-class levels of integrated supply chain and ordering and I expect great things from that that study as you're always really wound up about it and off to a great start and well probably talk more about that at an analyst meeting later this year I suppose but that will really chart us then for the finale that I would say of our CPS efforts between now and 15 and I am really excited about it.
I will be leading that more than $2 billion down in the first quarter.
I mean the implication and when you look at the years the second and third quarter will be relatively flat and you hope you get enough orders to get to match the fourth quarter which was quite strong Eli Ill respectively decline  I mean we can try to give a little guidance on the first quarter.
We tend not to do quarterly.
I think the way and weve kind of set it up and I wouldnt say it is specific to every quarter but I think most of the  I dont know call it pain inventory reduction negative impact on sales and production and is likely to be in the first quarter.
Again from an overall demand standpoint were looking at right now at the mid-point anyway for 2013 to be relatively similar to 2012.
Again ups and downs by segment as you mentioned mining weaker construction stronger power systems relatively flat but I think what that leaves you we have final Tier 4 being effective January 2014.
Can you give us some idea of how that's going to affect Cat as you go through it? Do you plan to roll out the product issue at the beginning of next year? That's another big deal that we have to deal with not as big as interim Tier 4 for us whether it was interim or work that's going on for final has just gone exceptionally well.
In our releases over the last couple of years and the outlook that we talked about today you've not really heard us talk about one bad thing that was a result either on margins pricing costs.
We haven't said one bad thing about Tier 4.
The changes that we made in our R&amp;D process what we learned from Tier 3 we've applied and it has gone very well.
So I wouldn't expect -- if the rest of it goes anything like it has so far Eli and I will just add here that we're about halfway to Tier 4 final and certainly January of '13 brings up another batch of new machines in throughout the year as does January '14.
And then in 2015 of course we have heavy horsepower locomotive and inland marine and ocean going coming.
So so far our teams have just performed outstandingly with quality results on Tier 4 introductions and our customers are happy our dealers are happy but we've talked about kind of the need for mining orders to inflect some point this year to potentially reach the goals but could you at least characterize how sentiment feels on 2014 some mining companies have already given a framework; Vale Freeport Newmont to name a few but can you just maybe give us a sense for based on what you're hearing this is Mike.
I'll start it off and I'll let the other guys chime in as they would like to but again what's going to happen with mining is a function of world growth.
What happens to commodity demand? As Doug mentioned earlier we're I would say cautiously optimistic on China which is good for commodities which stabilizes prices and ought to be good for mining.
So our long-term view of mining remains I think very good.
The issue of declining ore grades and deeper mines is still there.
So equipment sales over the long term in our view should outpace actually even mining production.
So it's Doug here but I fully fully believe that our idea on long-term mining around the world and our strategy to get after it whether it's surplus or underground is exactly the right one for this company.
I'm not sure anybody saw -- could see the current cycle with what happened in China and slowdown but having said that we deal with cycles in this company and we have for many many years.
You know 2009 dropped 39% one year.
We're used to this unfortunately but I've got to believe that the decade out mining the moves we've made in mining and the strategy that comes from that if we execute well will really pay off.
I also think that at some point we're going to see world GDP above 2.5% and I don't know if it's '13 I hope it is and I don't know if it's '14 I really hope it is but we'll see world growth move up to 3% to 4% at some point.
I've got to believe that in our near-term future if that happens it's going to be mineral-driven.
It has to be around the world as weve seen every time.
Housing starts were calling for over 1 million the drive for copper on that [SKU] if you all know that number.
So I'm still as optimistic as Ive ever been on mining long-term.
The cycle we have to deal with and we always have and well get through it.
But I really like the play I think I come back to the number of people on the planet that want to move up their standard of living and we all and over time thats played right to mining and arguably to some of our infrastructure disruption as well.
But maybe in the long-term if you look at the mid-point of earnings guidance and you think about pulling more inventory out and the guidance youve given on CapEx it looks like it could be a really big free cash year.
So Im wondering if you could just maybe frame out your expectations on free cash and then just philosophically how youre thinking about use of cash whether its continuing to kind of fortify the balance sheet and build cash any change in use towards dividend increase or buybacks and things of that sort thats very longwinded question Ted and Ill get started on that.
I think if you look at  we report on operating cash flow so lets use that for a proxy I think our expectation is that at the midpoint of our outlook range we would see operating cash flow substantially better in 13 than 12 I mean substantially.
And the factors are declining inventory rather than increasing inventory and I think there is a little bit of a timing impact there as well.
I mean we took $2 billion out of inventory in the fourth quarter and that was split between raw material work-in-process and finished goods and so we had a quite sizable decline in payables related to that and as that kind of stabilizes out you wont have that year-over-year negative on that.
So I think all in all from a cash flow perspective 2013 looks like a better year relative to 12 than if you just look at the profit relative to 12.
And I think beyond that in terms of our overall structure of our balance sheet our balance sheet is strong right now.
Our debt-to-cap is 37% under 30% on a net-to-cap basis.
Weve over $5 billion in cash and so we did manage our CapEx down this year below expectations as the volume moved and so we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and well open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you and good morning and welcome everyone to our First Quarter earnings call.
Im Mike DeWalt Caterpillars Corporate Controller.
On the call today Im pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning well be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A thats Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 19 of this year and also in the forward-looking statements language contained in todays release.
In addition theres a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and it can be found in our financial release which has also been posted on our caterpillar.com website.
Okay.
Before we start this morning the Q&amp;A Ill begin by covering three topics.
The first will be a summary of our first quarter results.
Then Ill take a few minutes to discuss the outlook for 2013.
And then the third topic will be our announcement this morning there will be repurchasing stock in the second quarter.
So lets start with results.
Without a doubt it was a challenging first quarter.
When we started 2013 we expected it would a tough quarter and thats why we had a specific section in our year-end financial release that addressed the quarter.
At that time we suggested that sales and revenues would be down more than $2 billion in the first quarter and thats whats happened.
Sales and revenues were $13.2 billion and thats a $2.8 billion or about a 17% decline from sales and revenues of $16 billion in the first quarter of 2012.
Profit was a $1.31 a share $1.06 lower than $2.37 per share from the first quarter of 2012.
Now in terms of the sales the majority of the year over year decline was a result of dealer inventory changes.
Last year in the first quarter dealers bought more machines from Caterpillar than they sold and as a result their new machine inventories rose about $875 million.
In the first quarter of 2013 it was the reverse.
Dealers bought less from us than they sold to their customers and their inventories of new machines declined about $700 million versus yearend 2012.
In combination the impact of the changes in dealer machine inventories was negative by almost $1.6 billion quarter over quarter.
In addition to dealer machine inventory dealers also have engine inventories.
And while the amount is much less then for machines and as a result we dont usually discuss it there was negative impact in the quarter from dealer inventory changes for engines.
When we started the year and in our year-end financial release we expected dealer inventory changes would be a substantial negative in the quarter and they were.
Now in addition to the dealer inventory impact end-user demand was also lower for both machines and for power systems.
Sales for aftermarket parts were also down versus first quarter 2012.
Part sales were relatively high during the first half of last year trended down during the second half of 2012 but started to move up now in the first quarter of 2013.
For part sales though compared with the first quarter of 2012 almost all of the decline we saw was in North America where coal mining has been down and we have had some tailing off of part sales for on-highway trucks.
And we had two fewer work days than in the first quarter of 2012.
From a price realization perspective overall the first quarter was about 1% for the company thats about what we expected and consistent with our outlook for the full year.
So thats a summary of sales.
Let's turn to profit.
The decline in profit was largely a result of the drop in sales plus $317 million of higher manufacturing cost almost all of which was a result of cost absorption impacts related to lower production and inventory changes.
Inventory and by this I am talking about Caterpillar's inventory not dealer inventory increased about $2 billion in the first quarter of 2012 and came down about $0.5 billion in the first quarter of 2013 again thats compared with year-end.
A portion of our cost to goods sold is relatively fixed in the short-term and as a result significant changes in production and inventory does have an impact on profit.
In this case it was negative year-over-year roughly $300 million.
Now on profit there were other pluses and minuses but sales volume and cost absorption were the main operating points in the quarter.
The low operating profit also had a favorable tax item but while favorable it wasnt a surprise.
In our year-end financial release we said we expected a favorable tax item related to changes in U.S.
tax law that were enacted in January of 2013 while related to 2012.
And in our January conference call we said it would be in the first quarter it was it was $87 million.
Okay thats a quick review on sales and profit.
Let me change gears for a moment and talk a little bit about China.
Sales in China while not a significant portion of our total have been a concern by many of you over the past year.
There has been quite a bit of focus in particular on construction equipment sales in China.
And from an end user standpoint our dealers reported deliveries in January and February that were below the same months in 2012.
March on the other hand was better with dealer deliveries of construction equipment about the same as March of 2012.
And while thats a move in the right direction and we are encouraged by it it's probably still a little too soon to call it a trend that will continue.
We will wait and see how the rest of the year shapes out.
On a more positive note though about China our sales this is Caterpillar sales not dealers sales were up in the quarter.
All in including machines power systems and parts we were higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Inventory in China and this is both Caterpillar inventory of finished machines and dealer machine inventory has also been pretty topical over the past year.
I am pleased to report this morning that we along with our dealers have made quite significant progress in lower inventory.
Dealer machine inventories declined throughout 2012 and are currently at reasonable levels relatively to sales.
In terms of our inventory thats Caterpillar finished inventory in China as expected it declined during the first quarter.
While inventory reduction is expected to continue into the second quarter we do expect to begin increasing production in China during Q2.
All right thats a quick update on China.
Two final points on the quarter thats order backlog and cash flow.
For the first time since the first quarter of 2012 our order backlog increased from the prior quarter end.
At the end of the first quarter of 2013 our backlog was $20.4 billion and thats up from about $20.2 billion at yearend 2012.
The increase in power systems and construction backlog more than offset declines for Resource Industries which is mostly mining.
For cash flow our machinery and power systems operating cash flow was about $900 million better than the first quarter of 2012 and thats despite lower profit.
Cash flow improved despite lower profit and the changes in inventory had quite a lot to do with it.
We began reducing inventory in the fourth quarter of 2012 which came down about $2 billion.
And it continued with another $0.5 billion reduction in the first quarter of 2013.
We lowered production schedules.
Weve had lowering plant shut downs in a number of facilities during the fourth quarter and continue that in many facilities in the first quarter of 2013.
While we do anticipate some additional inventory reduction in 2013 we are expecting to increase production levels in the second quarter.
Okay thats first quarter.
Lets move on to the outlook.
From an economic standpoint our view of the world in 2013 hasnt really changed much.
In our previous outlook and this is the one that we provided with our yearend financial release back in January we were expecting world economic growth of about 2.5% a small improvement from 2012.
Our expectations for the year havent changed much and were still expecting world economic growth of about 2.5%.
Again thats a little better than 2012 but from a historical standpoint pretty weak.
While our economic expectations havent changed much our outlook for sales and profits have come down.
We now expect sales and revenues in a range of $57 billion to $61 billion with profit of about $7 a share at the middle of that sales and revenues range.
Our previous outlook was sales and revenues in a range of $60 to $68 billion and profit in a range of $7 to $9 a share.
Mining is the primary reason for the decline in the outlook Previously we had expected that after depressed order levels for mining during the second half of 2012 that wed begin to see some improvement as 2013 unfolded.
Unfortunately that hasnt happened.
Overall mining orders have remained depressed.
As a result weve significantly reduced our expectation for mining sales in 2013.
We expect sales of traditional mining machines now this would be a large trucks large loaders large bulldozers and the like in the aggregate to be down about 50% from 2012 and mining machines from our Bucyrus acquisition to be down about 15%.
Because the decline in the outlook is largely mining and thats generally more profitable than construction and power system the impact on the outlook is not just sales volume its been also negative to product mix.
However cost flexibility and accountability are key elements of our strategy and were aggressively reducing costs to mitigate the impact of lower sales.
As a result our profit outlook is $7 a share at the middle of the sales and revenues range.
In addition to cost reduction Our priorities for cash deployment havent changed.
Our first priority is maintaining the strong balance sheet in our machinery and power systems debt per capita ratio in band from 30% to 45%.
After that we fund growth organic growth and acquisitions that set our business model.
Next is appropriate funding of employee benefit plans funding our dividend and increasing it over the business cycle and when those cash needs are met share repurchase.
We announced this morning that we are repurchasing about $1 billion of Caterpillar stock.
We believe it's an opportune time to do it.
We have a strong balance sheet cash flows improving CapEx needs are lower and we think the stock prices is effective.
So with that let's move to the question-and-answer portion of the conference call.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question today is from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
First question on mining and then second on share repurchase.
You know on the mining side you are assuming just your core mining down 50 and BUC only down 15%.
And then I guess assuming a sort of down 50% mining this year how do you put that into context versus short of normalized levels going forward because obviously everyone is trying to figure what 2014 could potentially be.
And then I guess Doug my question to you on sort of the change in thought process behind share repurchase before that didnt seem like a focus for you and how do we think about normalized CapEx and then do you assume share repo in your guidance.
Thanks.
Jamie I will start with the first part of that and I will let Doug do the second part.
First part on mining I just want to clarify we are not looking for our total mining sales to be down 50%.
Aftermarket is going to be certainly our outlook a lot closer to flat.
Bucyrus piece of it is down about 15%.
So in the aggregate it's not down 50% it's just new machines.
Big trucks loaders bulldozers and the like.
In terms of what's normal man if I look back over the last few years in mining it's a little tough to decide actually what's normal.
I think this year is a year where our sales are certainly being impacted by dealer inventory reductions.
Last year in addition to the end user demand dealers built some inventory in mining.
So thats a factor certainly in 2013 as well as kind of the demand levels from customers.
No I know Mike but just to clear I did phrase the question right.
I understand that it was more new machines down 50% and I assumed aftermarket would be better but why BUC only down 15%.
You know what I mean I would assume though...
Well I think if you look at the tradition of Cat machines you do have a dealer inventory impact that you dont really see with the Bucyrus machines.
And I think the Bucyrus machines are more specific I mean they are not --- they order them in smaller quantities and more specific to products individually that are maybe being retired in a mine.
Historically this has been the case.
We saw this when we looked to acquire Bucyrus we saw that even in the 2009 downturn the decline in that type of product was less then we saw in trucks and bulldozers and such.
And I do want to get back to one of the points that you made to and thats on 2014.
And I am sure we will in the course of the next couple of months get a lot of questions about what does this mean for 2014.
And thats a really hard question to answer at this juncture.
I mean certainly we dont have an outlook for 2014 so we are not going to -- we are not going to go out with new assumptions about that or assumptions about that today.
And what I would caution everybody that I think about just a little bit is if we go back a year ago and we put ourselves in April of 2012 whatever predictions we made a year ago about 2013 the market has certainly changes since then.
It may change between now and the end of the year it may not.
It's just too soon I think to make a call on 2014 other than just a couple of points that in fact we made this in our release today.
Dealer inventory changes our impact of this years sales.
So the real end user demand level is not quite as bad as all our production and sales level.
Once you get through that it stops being a drag.
Secondly commodity demand overall has held up reasonably well and our machines are being used in the field.
Most of what we sell is for replacements and at some point here thats going to have to perk back up.
So sorry I cant be more specific on 2014.
With regard to the second question on share buyback Ill turn it over actually to Brad.
Thats a good question and the fact is our priorities as Mike just talked about have not changed.
We think stock repurchase is an important way to reward shareholders and weve done it in the past and thats been part of the things that we look at.
So the question is why now.
Our balance sheet is very strong.
We think with the drop in stock price recently and where our P is the fact that we believe we have a slow growing economy but one thats stable if you look at our debt to cap in the mid-30s weve got enterprise cash of around $6 billion and a pretty strong net debt to cap.
We had a good cash flow quarter.
We have plans for a good cash flow year and we think again this is an opportunistic time here in the short term to reward our shareholders with $1 billion stock buyback.
But Brad is there anything assumed in the guide? Say that again? What do you assume in the guide level? Do you assume the $1 billion in share repurchase? Is that in the guidance or not? Yes it is.
It is? Okay.
$0.06 to $0.07 a share something like that.
Okay thanks.
I would just add a couple of quick notes on this Jamie.
Doug here.
We have been intensely focused on investing in the company the last now four and a half five years since the recession but the thing thats probably been the overriding objective is to make our balance sheet rock solid impenetrable and the first quarter we saw is the fourth of last year the inventory reduction really came through the levels that we were expecting that we wanted.
The organization has responded to cost control.
First quarter cash flow was outstanding.
That all coupled with again a debt to equity rate -- debt to cap ratio of upper 30s and if you factor in the cash its below 30.
We contrast that back to the middle of 08 or this time in 08 we were much more fragile on the balance sheet.
Coupled with as Brad said the multiple its an attractive use of our cash right now and its really that simple and I think it makes a lot of sense.
Frankly should see the same about how we look at 2013 and the longer term because I know we have a lot of questions around mining and where is all that going.
I still firmly believe long term and long term being the next generation of management and beyond and well view our moves into mining and what we have done the last few years as really changing our company for the better.
We are used to cycles here particularly if worldwide growth as small as it is at 3% over time and growing construction industries around the world they are going to require what comes out of the year.
So were definitely in a down cycle right now but long term its a great business for us.
Probably more than you wanted to hear but I wanted to drill that in Jamie.
No thats great.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Volkmann.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question Its Jefferies.
A couple of quick ones Mike just to follow up on your inventory comment.
You said that inventory reduction would probably continue into the second quarter just order of magnitude ether if you might have it.
And I am curious if you could break that out between mining and the construction businesses.
And then I have a quick follow up for Doug.
Okay.
Actually I am going to go slightly beyond what you just asked.
Frequently when we talk about inventory sometimes there is if you are not careful you can get some confusion between company inventory and dealer inventories.
So I really want to address both.
From a dealer inventory standpoint our projections have it coming down again in the second quarter.
And historically that didnt happen last year but historically thats the usual pattern.
You know dealers normally build inventory in the first quarter and it comes down in the selling season when sales to end users are a lot higher in the second quarter.
I think our view is that that at least the selling down part of it in the second quarter in the selling season is likely to happen.
I won't put an order of magnitude on it but I think to a large degree it depends upon what happens to end user demand.
But it's probably more than a couple of $100 million otherwise we wouldnt have mentioned it.
So a reasonable decline.
And I think probably in the second quarter it will be split between mining and construction.
It's a big selling season for construction plus we have this sort of march down of dealer inventory in mining that to some degree will probably occur throughout much of 2013.
For Cat inventory we do expect a little bit more decline for the year.
You know we would not expect to do three more quarters of $0.5 billion a quarter.
So over the course of the rest of the year we would see reduction but a little bit lower than the pace we had in the first quarter.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I could Doug when we were out visiting in December correct me if I put the wrong words in your mouth but I think you had mentioned that you were willing to run with a little higher expense than you might otherwise because you did believe that things were going to recover fairly soon and you didnt want to kind of cut in the muscle and not be able to take advantage of any upturn that might come.
And I think you sort of said that you would re-evaluate that as we got through the spring.
And I am curious now whether you think there is more you need to do on the cost side whether you might change that view or whether you still think that thats the right stance here.
Yeah sure Steve.
And I would say the answer is split.
In the case of construction we are seeing an uptick.
We have been watching relatively flat but slightly increasing sales to users for a number of months we saw that March.
Saw it in the first quarter.
You saw the backlog number.
So we have been reluctant to go to the bone in construction and have not.
Now we have got a number of restructurings occurring around the world in that but it's unrelated to volumes it's related to structural costs.
I am talking about Europe.
In mining yes we are doing absolutely everything required to get that cost structure in line with where we are in the cycle and the Resource Industries mining guys people have done a great job on that so far.
Where are we on all of that hard to say but certainly the number of temporary layoffs we have both in production and office staff around the world of the temporary nature.
We have had a few announcements of something more permanent fairly on the miners side.
But basically we will go as far as we need to go to generate the OPAC targets we want and to deliver kind of the goals we have stated.
So so far it's a pretty mix bag of those Steve.
And I can give you a nice ambiguous answer because thats exactly the way we are operating -- Mining deep construction industry is growing.
Yeah and I might add just some more comments this is Brad.
You know when we look at 2013 for the full year we had strong confidence in our ability to execute.
And if you look at the pull through kind of on a decremental rate for the year it's around 25%.
And it's around 25% despite the fact that we had two decent headwinds and that the mining mix in terms of where the sales are coming out as well as the period cost absorbs the impact that Mike has talked about.
So our plans our trough plan is a flexible workforce.
The things were doing to control costs here have put less pressure on things like R&amp;D and capital that would have been in the past.
So were comfortable with the year.
Our next question today is coming from Joel Tiss.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question Bank of Montreal.
Just two things.
One can you give us an idea by the end of 2013 how big mining is going to be as a percent of total company revenues and operating profits? Just so we can start to -- as mining shrinks faster than the company it becomes less and less of a factor driving the whole company.
So I just wanted to get a sense of where we are.
I think as a percent it will be down a little bit from last year.
I dont have a percent to give you Joel but if you look at our results from last year essentially almost all of the decline in year over year sales are out of mining or are at Resource Industries.
Not quite 100% but almost.
So if you can calculate at least the sales numbers presuming that most all of the year over year decline is in resource.
I think in terms of profit Resource Industries is still very good margin segment and as Brad said were and Doug both were doing a lot of work on getting cost out of Resource Industries.
So that would mitigate some of the impact of the decline from sales.
Hope that helps some.
And then free cash flow expectation for all of 2013 roughly? We dont actually go out with a forecast of cash flow that we talk about externally.
Suffice to say that inventory was a drag from last year.
This year it should be a help.
So thats quite a turnaround I think in cash flow from inventory being a contributor rather than a user.
And then in terms of free cash flow our CapEx requirements likely to be down as well year over year $400 million $500 million.
Yeah.
While we dont put out a number with where we are on inventory with our outlook on PPS well have a substantially better picture of 2013 than 2012.
I think we can say that and say were pretty confident about it.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Casey.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question Wells Fargo Securities.
Just wanted to make sure I understood the broader implications of the guidance change specifically the 13% reduction to earnings outlook after not much change in the sequential backlog or the global economic outlook.
With respect to your mining views clearly you made some changes Yeah.
Andrew I think to some degree its probably both.
There have been quite a bit of management change with some of our big customers and I think its clear they are the new management is much more focused on operating costs short term cash flow.
Theyre splitting their assets a bit and thats stacked up against the last few years where they were very focused on growth a lot of new mine work.
I think its just probably both management and the fact that theyve actually bought quite a bit of equipment over the last couple of years.
So I think its both and I think if you look at our sales you also have to throw in dealer inventory.
We actually produced more last year than customers bought.
Customers will buy more this year than well produce.
Its the opposite.
So the swing between those two is an extra negative on us that our customers arent seeing.
You know if you look at our thinking around aftermarket for the full year kind of part sales that a decent proxy at least in our world for production levels with customers and how they are behaving.
And our view that with the exception again of U.S.
coal mining that part sales in that mining kind of business will be pretty flat.
So that says that customers are using the equipment thats out there and they are repairing the equipment thats out there.
It's not a great economic climate but it's good enough to keep commodity production going.
Okay thanks Mike.
And just one follow up on that.
It's based on what you are seeing on the customer CapEx trends.
Has this happened for a while or is this more similar to something we have got to go back 20-30 years to see? Well I have not seen quite like this in my time I dont know and I am one of the oldest sitting around this table.
And actually Doug is couple of years older than me.
In my time I have not seen this.
I mean the reduction in the purchase of new equipment is substantially more than certainly the decline in commodity consumption would suggest.
So thats again making it pretty tough on those.
We will be a point this year you know if you look at our boost to the mining truck production as an example.
We have taken the forecast down to a point where we are likely to be for large mining trucks only a couple of hundred about 2009 which was a terrible year for the world's economy.
Big down year financial crisis kind of freeze up in a lot of markets.
So it's pretty dramatic what we are seeing right now.
I would answer that a little bit more broadly and that is just addressing cycles.
And I have been here longest in this room anyway and I have seen cycles from Argentina to Alberta to the great crash of '09.
And the one thing I guess if there is any silver lining in it since 2001 really is this is the from ['97] probably the fourth or fifth major cycle for this company.
And I would like to think as kind of negative and perverse as it is we are getting pretty good at it.
And while I dont like a three-year cycle that is from '09 from '12 or '08 to '12 I guess three-four years.
If thats what we are living with we are going to learn how to manage it.
And the Resource Industries Group led by Steve Wunning and his crew right now are doing everything they know what to do to size that for the cycle.
And we will take that right on through any other of the businesses we have as well.
And thats very hard on our people.
It's very hard on our shareholders it's hard on everybody.
But if you look our performance through '09 so far I am very happy with where we are.
Brad mentioned that pull through decrement in this case is kind of what we would expect on that we have been enjoying on the upside.
And fortunately we are getting pretty good at these cycles and when it comes back we will even be I think better at pulling that through on the other side of this.
So that may be the perverse reality of what we are seeing here Andy.
Our next question today comes from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Mike you talked about backlog already.
It did improve sequentially.
You mentioned that this was really a result of construction and power systems offsetting Resource Industries.
Do you think this was an inflection point in these businesses? And what's hard for us is we see at least in the first quarter construction and power systems were pretty weak.
Some of that was inventory.
And so how do we look at those businesses versus the backlog increase offset by the weakness in the first quarter.
Yeah Andy I dont know if it's an inflection point.
I think that given what we have in our outlook for mining I suspect that the backlog for mining will probably inch down.
But what we saw in the first quarter was actually pretty strong order rates out of construction.
Order rates for construction for example were better than the first quarter a year ago.
Our production was down.
Dealers were cutting inventory.
We have a pretty decent build in construction backlog.
I dont know if thats an inflection point.
Our predictions around end user demand for construction as Doug said are stable to moderately better this year.
So its not like were expecting a big increase year over year.
Were just not seeing the kind of declines that youre seeing in mining.
But all that said it was a pretty strong quarter for orders outside of mining better than a year ago and thats a good thing.
Hopefully it is signaling a trend.
Well see.
Yeah.
I would just throw in some maybe further clouding of the tea leaves to your question whether this is an inflection point or not.
But many of you are aware and some of you were at Bauma last week in Munich I was there for an extended period of time some interesting statistics out of the Bauma show.
Record attendance by a long shot record exhibitors record waiting list of exhibitors to come in and record machine sales by our dealer anyway inside Germany.
You wouldnt think youd hear that in Europe in this day and age.
And so while all that was great news off the chart news there was other stories in Europe that led us to indicate that there is no end in sight in Europe either.
But its just a tough time to read the tea leaves and Id like to think this quarter or last quarter this quarter whatever it might be an inflection point but its just too hard to say.
Were taking it day to day.
We like what we saw in the first quarter in terms of our backlog.
We like what we see around the world with sales to users but its certainly not a boom.
Inc.</strong> Well that is good to hear Doug.
Mike maybe if I could switch back to Resource Industries in the margin sense decremental in the quarter were expectedly high.
You talked about how you were going to mitigate that going forward.
Can you talk about precise competition within the segment? Are you finding -- have you had to bundle equipment more against competition? Is there any discounting going on in mining right now? Maybe you can just talk about pricing within Resource Industries.
I think whenever the subject of pricing comes up whether its Resource Industries or construction or impacts of the Yen at 100 or something close to 100 the reality the real world is its not instantaneous.
It doesnt usually change by a big amount.
Our first quarter with Resource Industries Power Systems Construction all of them were plus minus pretty close to a 1% increase for the year.
Thats what we said four months ago for the outlook for the year.
The first quarter was spot on our internal plan for pricing.
So its less than last year.
If you look at Resource Industries last year pricing was up a bit more than that for this year.
Its definitely a positive territory but not as big as last year.
So I think -- Im not trying to suggest that low volume has no impact but certainly in our business and probably for a lot of our competitors a lot of the pricing that we have are under  long term agreements that we have with customers.
So during times when demand is really high and maybe otherwise you would go out and get more or at least have the ability to -- those long terms agreement are mitigate a little bit on the upside and mitigate a little bit on the downside.
So pricing doesnt seem to be -- doesnt swing in big increments from plus to minus.
In fact even in 2009 when sales dropped like 40% in total price realization ended up being a positive for the year.
And in this first quarter our sales and revenues down 17% were positive 1% on price about as we thought.
So I think realistically its not that there arent competitive pressures.
There are big competitive pressures all the time but I think the net impact is probably less volatility than most people think.
Our next question today comes from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
On the Resource Industries the sales guidance for the year seems to be implied around down 20%.
If I look at the first quarter revenues and just run that out flat sequentially given the backlog is down sequentially it's not necessarily a layup but that would give me though revenues down for the year of 31%.
So I am just trying to understand what gets better sequentially in Resource Industries to get you back to full year down 20%.
I guess maybe less inventory destock.
I am just trying to square those two numbers off.
What gets better sequentially in Resource Industries to get the full year to down 20% not the 31% if it's just flat sequentially.
David we didnt give it down 20% for Resource Industries.
I think kind of what we have been saying is last year our total sales and revenues were about 65.
It certainly is a midpoint of this year's outlook we are looking out at -- the new outlook we are looking at 59.
And essentially all that is the down is the resource industry.
So I think it will be more than 20%.
I think if you look at the first quarter and then second third fourth quarter kind of the movement through the year and what's likely to happen there I think the negative impacts from dealer inventory build last year kind of continued throughout the year but are actually positive for last year.
Absence of and further declines this year on dealer inventory.
We will probably start tailing off the fourth quarter for example we didnt have the same kind of dealer inventory builds.
From just a production standpoint from the orders we have received orders on hand kind of the production trend for the year if you were to look inside of our production schedules we are not presuming any big upturn in orders rates.
Our forecast doesnt need that.
I mean it's not that we are forecasting no new orders but it's very modest.
So much of the year is in the order book already for big machines.
So I guess in answer to your questions dealer inventories impact plus the full year decline is probably more than the 20% you are thinking.
Thats an important distinction Mike.
Because obviously who want to own the stock want to I want as much negative mining news baked already into the guidance.
So just to be clear....
Well there is quite a bit baked in.
I hear you but if construction is up only 3% and power is flat and others is going to be down with the logistics gone but also just say core down a little it's not a big business.
Resource industry needs to be down only 20% to hit your revenue number.
If you are saying it's down larger than that you are implying better from construction and power.
Which given the mix the people are looking for again they want as negative Resource Industries in the guidance as possible.
But to help us understand the math because the math is Mike basically down 20% in Resource Industries the full year number.
Can you maybe give us a little more clarity on how you are thinking about construction industries and power systems on the revenue then? Yeah so I will go back.
You know we have about $6 billion decline from actual 12 to midpoint of the guidance.
Thats $6 billion that is essentially out of Resource Industries which is mining.
So I think thats more than 20%.
So the bump up it sounds a little construction industries power being down 12% for the quarter getting the full year flat.
Initially looked challenging but you did cite the backlog is up in power sequentially.
Did I hear that correctly? Yeah and construction.
And construction.
And last quick one the loss on that power project in the first quarter can you quantify it for us so we have some better understanding of the underlying power systems margin for the quarter.
And is that loss completed done? It's in the first quarter and there is no lingering going forward? Yeah.
Well we werent specific to a customer.
We certainly have confidentiality agreements with customers.
But it was a big a quite large project.
It hasnt been delivered yet.
It's our expectation that the first quarter contains whatever -- we dont expect any continuing losses as a result of that project throughout the year.
So its a loss in that context its contained in the first quarter.
I think in the scheme of our total results and probably in the scheme of the size of profit for power systems its not a big material item certainly for the company.
But in the scheme of the profit change it was -- as we looked at all the changes it rose to a level that we felt like we needed to mention it.
Our next question today comes from Steven Fisher.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
Its UBS.
Wondering how you're thinking about EPS ranges at the high end and low end of your sales guidance range.
And if you can't give any kind of point estimates I guess with the narrower sales range should we assume that your EPS range is going to be narrower than $2.00 a share or is the margin impact such that it could still be $2.00? No I would say its not likely to be that wide.
If you think about our profit and Brad talked about our expectations for incremental and decremental margins our order magnitude in and around 25%.
Now in the first quarter it was worse than that because we had a sizeable impact from inventory absorption.
I think if I were looking at our range thats probably from an operating profit standpoint thinking about roughly speaking 25% ish up and down is probably a reasonable change or I mean kind of a reasonable assumption to do and that would give you a profit range less than $2 certainly.
Okay.
And then you mentioned that order rates in Construction improved.
Can you maybe just give a little more color on that by geography and I guess by country is what I'm thinking and then maybe within North America is there any way to give some color on end market be it highway versus housing versus commercial or anything else? I think it was actually fairly widespread but I think the better way to think of it is order rates in the fourth quarter were quite low as dealers were trying to lower inventory.
So they really drop order rates quite a bit in the fourth quarter really to get us to produce and ship less to them so they can take inventory down which happened in the first quarter.
During the first quarter the dealers raise order rates and Im going to say largely across the board because what they had already done to lower inventories for the most part has been played in.
there will be more inventory reduction I think come in the second quarter in construction a bit.
But order rates have moved back up to be certainly more in line.
Remember too that the second quarter is a pretty high quarter seasonally for dealer delivery sales to end users.
So theyre already more pretty much across the board for that.
If I could think of exceptions by country I would tell you but I think for construction it was pretty widespread.
Our next question today comes from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
Its Goldman Sachs.
Doug you've ramped up CapEx earlier in this cycle than what we've seen from CAT in the past.
I'm wondering if you can talk about how we should think about CapEx beyond 2013 as we get past Tier 4 final and if you could touch on what type of projects you are trimming in the CapEx guidance this year as that has implications throughout your CapEx that would be helpful.
Thank you.
Id say well see how the cycle goes here but Id like to -- we have seen I dont know 4 billionish.
It's a high end we are down now under 3 I guess for this year.
Thats going to cycle with where we are.
The good news and I would say for '13 and '14 and maybe into '15 is that the modernization we have done with our plants the investment we have put in the restructuring around the world should get us through here for a couple of years regardless of whatever comes to us.
And even minimal growth we are well poised for.
We are concentrating on market share.
If things pick up there we can serve the market.
So we are in really good shape when it comes to CapEx.
But I would see it cycling up a bit if we see recovery kind of across the border in the next few years.
Kind of in line with where we have been.
Okay.
And Mike in power systems can you flush out for us what you are seeing in the first quarter orders? It doesnt sound like you saw the order pressures that you saw in locomotives but maybe you can add some color there and touch on what you are seeing from bookings and electric power.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Actually the industrial businesses improved some so the order rates for industrial are up.
Electric power has remained pretty weak.
The oil and gas business has been kind of mixed.
The drilling and fracing piece has been down compression has been pretty good.
Solar has actually a very good order book for the year.
So I think if what you are trying to do is kind of gauge how the year is shaping up for electric power I think we have -- we are probably most pessimistic on electric power particularly the small end of that.
Fairly neutral to positive on the oil and gas business and solar as well the big end of that.
There is some sign that marine and industrial are starting to do a little bit better.
And to your point rail actually overall in the first quarter was certainly from the sales standpoint fairly similar to a year ago.
They have a pretty decent order backlog in rail.
You know thats a business that we have done pretty well in.
We have worked pretty hard on the cost structure customers are buying more from us.
I saw here just recently where GE is scaling back some production.
So I think all in all we have done pretty well in rail.
So in the context of full year business thats relatively neutral in our outlook with 2012 you got industrial thats starting to look a little better.
Marine maybe a little bit better.
Electric power down.
Oil and gas back up.
Our next question today is coming from Seth Weber.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
I was wondering if you could just circle back on the mining business again.
The sequential increase in the parts business in the quarter I mean you kind of touched on that U.S.
coal is off but can you tell us where that increase is coming from where you are seeing some relative strength? Yeah I think coal is actually a good market to look at.
If you look at coal versus the first quarter a year ago was down but production has been edging up.
It looks like utility output is up a bit.
It looks like coal's percentage of utility production is up a bit.
You have got record coal exports from the U.S.
So while it's still a little bit below what was a year ago coal production is kind of trending up a little bit and that has been I think a little bit of a positive certainly in the mining piece of it.
Okay.
Any of the other commodities any color there? On aftermarket I dont know.
I mean the numbers once you get outside of the U.S.
the overall parts numbers are plus or minus.
They are not dramatically different.
So it would be hard to get a read from it.
I think if you look at commodity production generally it's by and large up a little bit not dramatically.
So I'm just guessing here when I say this but I would suspect outside the U.S.
coal there's probably not a lot of change.
Okay.
If we could switch over to the planned increase in production in China I mean could you give us a little bit more color what you're seeing there? Is Cat just outperforming the market? Do you feel like the industry is going to be more disciplined this time going forward? Or what gives you confidence to start raising production there on the Construction side? Yeah I think there's two things.
I think the fundamental one is that we've spent almost a year getting inventory down.
So we've had production levels that are well below real end-user demand levels to work down inventory.
Inventory is down to a point where -- not quite yet but probably in the next month or so it'll be getting to a level where we're not looking to take it down more and so then the production will come back.
So I think most of the increase in China production is because we're getting to the end of the inventory decline or hopefully anyway over the next quarter.
But I think also mixed in there certainly for the mid-size excavators in the marketplace we're actually doing a little bit better than the market overall.
So that's been a positive for us as well.
Thanks everyone.
We're kind of at the end of our hour right now.
So thanks for joining us and we'll sign off.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Earnings Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thanks Kate and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Im Mike DeWalt Caterpillars Corporate Controller.
On the call today Im pleased to have with me our Chairman and CEO Dough Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of this call without our written consent is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript well be posting it in the Investor Section of our Caterpillar.com website and itll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
Now this morning undoubtedly we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
Our discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of this year and also in the forward-looking statements language in today's release.
Now in addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our financial release and again thats been posted on our website at Caterpillar.com.
Now before we start the Q&amp;A today Im going to be covering three main topics.
The first will be a summary of our second quarter results and revised outlook.
And then Im going to take a few minutes and talk a little bit about our business segments and then Im going to finish up with cash flow and the stock repurchase that we talked about this morning.
So Ill start with second quarter which Im going to discuss in two ways.
First Im going to cover at a high level our second quarter results versus the second quarter of 2012.
And then Im going to discuss the specific headwinds that we faced in second quarter and how we are thinking about them going forward and our expectations for the second half of 2013.
First compared to the second quarter of 2012 our results this morning were quite a bit lower.
But to put the year-over-year comparison in context the second quarter a year ago was certainly a tough comparison.
The headline from last years second quarter started with Caterpillar reports best quarter in history.
Sales this quarter were  sales and revenues were $14.6 billion and thats a 16% decline from the second quarter of 2012.
And this morning we reported profit at a $1.45 per share and that was down $1.09 from the second quarter of last year.
Now the sales and revenues declined versus last year and dollars was about $2.8 billion and about half of that was the result of dealer inventory changes and the other half from lower end-user demand.
Now in last years second quarter dealers bought more machines from Caterpillar than they delivered to customers.
And their machine inventories rose again last year about $300 million.
In the second quarter of this year 2013 it was the reverse.
Dealers bought less from us than they sold to the customers and their inventory of new machines as a result declined about $1 billion.
So in combination the impacts and the changes of dealer machine inventories was negative by about $1.3 billion for the quarter-over-quarter.
The remaining sales decline was the result of lower end-user demand for machines and to a lesser extent power systems.
The decline in profit was largely a result of that drop in sales.
And on page 6 of this morning's financial release we have a waterfall chart that would step you through the quarter-to-quarter changes in operating profit.
It shows a decline in total from last year to this year of about $1.59 billion and lower volume which includes product mix more than accounted for the total decline in operating profit.
So the overwhelming story on a quarter-to-quarter profit decline was volume.
And I think the waterfall chart covers the other pluses and minuses reasonably well.
So I'm going to change gears a little here and talk about the headwinds in the second quarter and how we are thinking about them relative to the second half of the year and we'll start-off with dealer inventory.
As I mentioned before dealers took out about $1 billion of inventories in the second quarter.
And that was a sales headwind for us as our sales were about $1 billion below end-user demand.
In terms of what that means for the second half of the year well we expect that to continue.
We think dealers are going to take inventory down another $1.5 billion to $2 billion or so between now and year-end.
The continued dealer inventory decline in fact is the main reason that we lowered our sales and profit outlook for 2013 this morning.
We're expecting sales and revenues in a range of $56 billion to $58 billion and profit of about $6.50 a share to middle of that sales and revenues range.
That's a drop of about $2 billion on the top line and $0.50 a share at the bottom line.
So dealer inventory reductions where headwind in the quarter and the main reason we lowered the outlook.
Now our inventory was also a headwind in the quarter.
In addition to what the dealers took out we cut inventory by $1.2 billion in the quarter.
That was negative to profit from a cost absorption standpoint.
And just to help you get a handle on the profit impact we use a rule of thumb of 13% to 15% of the inventory change.
The year-end expectation for our inventory is that it will end the year about where it ended the second quarter.
That means we do not expect the profit headwind that we had in the second quarter from inventory absorption to continue in the second half of the year.
In addition we also had a substantial currency headwind in the second quarter.
And in this context Im not really talking about year-over-year Im not talking Im not comparing the second quarter year-ago.
Im talking about actual translation and hedging losses with a lot of $134 million that happened in the quarter and were reported in the other income and expense line of our P&amp;L which is a couple of lines below operating profit on the P&amp;L.
Now as we put our outlook together we dont forecast future currency movements.
We do our outlook based on exchange rates as they are.
As a result our outlook does not expect currency translation and hedging losses in the second half of the year like the $134 million in the second quarter.
Now the flip side of that is we did have a positive item in the quarter.
We had $135 million gain on our settlement related to the Siwei acquisition and thats also something that we dont expect to repeat.
So as were thinking about the second half of the year kind of relative to the second quarter the average sales for each of the two quarters on a quarterly basis in the second half its about the same as the second quarter but we dont think well have the negative cost absorption impact like the second quarter had.
We dont think well have the $134 million at least in our outlook of currency losses and the Siwei $134 million gain we dont expect to continue.
The other difference that you need to take into consideration is that were taking additional actions to reduce costs in the second half of the year.
Now we started taking action in the second quarter and began implementing cost reduction measures and were going to do more of that in the second half of the year.
Okay.
thats enough for now on the quarter and the outlook.
Id like to change gears just a little bit and talk about segments.
Im going to start by saying that our largest segment this year by sales has been Power Systems.
Our most profitable segment this year has been Power Systems.
The highest margin rate of any segment this year has been Power Systems.
Now I know that most of you are on the phone here today already know that but there are many casual observers of Caterpillar that if you ask them that question what is that mining which is in our Resource Industries segment.
The point of this discussion is that we serve a number of different cyclical industries but thankfully they dont all follow the same path at the same time.
The diversity within and in fact between our segments have to mitigate year-to-year swings in sales both down and up for the company.
The Power Systems segment again; our largest and most profitable segment over the past five years has also been relatively speaking the most stable of our two large equipment segments.
and thats because it spent a number of different industries itself electric power oil and gas rail marine and industrial engines.
And actually even within those industries there is diversity in oil and gas for example.
Our sales of engines for drilling and fracking are weaker and gas compression continues to do pretty well.
Moving on our Construction Industries segment sells an extensive range of construction equipment around the world to support infrastructure development commercial and residential construction.
The worldwide construction industry is showing signs of recent improvement that remains relatively depressed from a historical standpoint.
Construction in the United States well starting to turn up its still far below the 2006-2007 peak and the construction equipment and industry in Europe is as youd expect well below the prior peak and construction equipment sales in China in 2013 we expect to be about half of they were in 2011.
The point is there is a lot of room to grow just to get back to where weve been before.
When economic and construction activities begin to improve in the world particularly in the U.S.
and hopefully eventually in Europe it should be a positive for our business.
Our Financial Products segment is also important to our business and its doing very well.
It provides financing to end-users that purchase our equipment and it also provides financing for some Caterpillar dealers.
Financial Products revenues and profit have proven to be much more stable through the business cycle than our product related businesses and theyre currently performing well.
Revenues this quarter were up 5% from the second quarter a year ago and profit was up.
Now the segment thats currently getting significant attention is Resource Industries which is primarily mining.
Now Im going to give you one down of whats happening in mining.
But before I do that Id like to point you to todays financial release.
And on page 16 in particular question number five in the Q&amp;A in the back of the release weve tried to provide a pre-comprehensive discussion of the mining industry and how it impacts our sales.
Now the high points of that discussion start with the production of mine commodities and the underlying health of that mining industry relies on commodity demand and production and based on the data that weve seen it looks like mining production in 2013 is going to be a little higher than it was in 2012.
And recently a couple of the big public mining companies have reported theyre producing at record levels.
Now commodity production underpins the need for mining CapEx.
And despite 2013 increases in commodity production its clear that mining companies are currently cutting their CapEx after significant increases in 2011 and 2012.
While we dont specifically accumulate CapEx estimates ourselves for the industry we do the follow the market surveys.
Based on those surveys it appears total mining CapEx in 2013 is likely to be down 5% to 10% from 2012.
And those some surveys are also indicating further CapEx decline near 20% for 2014.
Now the mining industry CapEx includes spending on exploration and developing buildings and structures and things like processing plants and equipment.
At Caterpillar were mostly impacted by spending on equipment while we dont have a consistent CapEx yield at that level of detail for the industry worldwide; we have reviewed data at the level of details from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and it tells us that over the past few years the largest and fastest growing category of CapEx in Australia was four buildings and structures and while this is the largest category the most significant declines in 2012 have been for exploration and development and equipment and based on our own experience with large capital projects that makes sense to us.
Its difficult to stop construction on large-scale facilities once they get substantially started.
That means in the short-term we believe that more of the decline in mining CapEx is for equipment things like Caterpillar machines.
It now leads us to end-user demand for our products.
Thats how much CAT dealers are actually delivering to end-users of mining companies.
Year-to-date deliveries to end-users and our expectations of what dealers will deliver for the full year are declines of about 20%.
While dealer inventories are down  while dealer deliveries Im sorry are down for the type of equipment that we make we believe we are doing a little better than the equipment industry overall.
And that brings us to resource industry sales.
So we started with CapEx weve moved onto end-user demand from our dealers and now to our sales.
And to relate the decline in mining equipment demand placed on our dealers or sales need to consider several other factors besides mining CapEx.
Our resource industry segment includes things that are not directly related to mining CapEx like aftermarket part sales as well as equipment sales to the forestry paving and quarry and aggregate industries.
Although resource industry sales of aftermarket parts are down a little in the second quarter of 2013 compared with the year ago the decline is much less than the decline for equipment and in the context of the total decline in sales the resource industries is just not a significant factor.
And the collective sales of equipment for forestry paving and quarry and aggregates are also down but again the vast majority of the decline in resource industry sales for the quarter the second quarter of 2013 is mining equipment.
Now in addition to those factors to understand our sales we also need to consider dealer inventory changes.
Dealer inventory increased in the second quarter last year and it declined substantially in the second quarter of 2013.
That means that last year we were selling more products to dealers than they were delivering to the end-user and mining companies.
And in the second quarter of this year we sold far less equipment than dealers were selling to mining customers.
In fact our sales of traditional CAT Mining equipment such as mining trucks large track excavators and wheel loaders would have had to vend more than 50% higher in the second quarter to match what dealers were delivering to end-users.
In the second half of 2013 we expect that dealers will continue to substantially reduce their inventories.
And that means we expect to continue to undersell mining demand for the remainder of 2013.
Given the substantial decline in sales in 2013 the uncertainty around when cyclical recovery will resume weve taken substantial action to adjust our production levels and to reduce costs.
We expect to take further action in the second half of the year.
Now our intention is to reduce costs and drive operational improvements and do it in a way that doesnt significantly reduce our ability to ramp up when production improves.
I know many of you would like to get a better understanding of what we think will happen after 2013.
Now we're going to discuss that here for a couple of minutes but we want to start by saying we are not providing sales outlook for 2014 either for resource industries or for CAT in total.
Its certainly too early to do that.
And the activities over the past five years in the mining equipment industry certainly reinforced that.
It has experienced significant demand shifts goes up and down in the mining industry overall has had difficulty in forecasting those shifts in advance and frankly thats impacted our forecasts.
We understand that as a part of being in this industry.
And this year is a good example as mining companies have been cautious and dealers have reduced our inventories.
What we will discuss here this morning is what the industry surveys not our forecasts but what the industry surveys about next year suggest and what that could mean and the impact of dealer inventory reductions wind down.
Now earlier I mentioned that weve seen surveys that suggesting another 20% decline in the mining CapEx in 2014 from 2013.
Again thats not our estimate and were not providing an outlook.
But if you take that CapEx survey at face value it suggests another down here in 2014.
To put mining CapEx in the context of our sales though you have to consider the impact of dealer inventories.
Even if dealer deliveries of new mining equipment were to be down 20% next year from 2013 if we see an end to the dealer inventory reductions over the next few quarters.
We believe our sales of new mining equipment to dealers would be positive.
In other words we believe the significance of the end of dealer inventory reductions would have a more significant positive impact on year-over-year sales than our 20% decline in end-user demand.
Just to clarify this were not suggesting an increase in inventories next year.
Just the absence of the big declines in 2013 that pulled our sales well below what dealers are delivering to mining customers.
Now in addition to that if the world economy continues to improve we would expect commodity productions to also increase and that coupled with the relatively large number of new machines placed in service over the past several years that should be a positive for mining aftermarket part sales.
Again this is not a forecast for 2014 this time too early to do that.
The preference of this discussion was just to illustrate for you the significance that dealer inventory changes are having on our mining business today and what the implications are for when the decline comes to an end.
Now looking further ahead our long-term view of mining remains positive.
Commodity demand is driven by economic growth population increase and the rising standards of living and we believe that will all continue to improve over the long-term.
In addition declining ore grades imply that in the future more material will need to be moved per ton of commodity output and thats another positive at least from our perspective for long-term equipment needs.
Finally much has been written and said about the impact of China on commodity demand in the mining industry.
Our long-term view of China is also positive.
We expect continued urbanization and improvement in standard of living for the people of China.
We believe that means more electricity production will be generated and increased production and consumptions in general.
Now increasing electricity production in particular is a positive for coal.
Coal makes up a large portion of the electricity generated in China and they continue to add coal fire capacity.
Now that said we do not expect the significant economic growth rates that China experienced over the past 10 years will continue indefinitely.
But we do believe that China will continue to grow at a much faster pace than the rest of the world.
And its also important to remember that over the past 10 years the size of the Chinese economy has more than doubled and that means that economic growth rates of 7% to 7.5% had a greater impact today than a 10% growth rate would have had 10 years ago.
Its a big economy that relative to the world in total is growing faster.
So in summary on mining we dont expect much change in the environment in the short-term and the remainder of 2013 will be tough for our mining business.
As dealer inventory reductions come to an end our mining equipment sales could rise from 2013 levels even if mining CapEx declines.
And our long-term of mining remains positive.
the world needs mine commodities.
As the world grows we believe commodity demand will continue to increase.
One last quick topic and then well go on to the Q&amp;A and that topic is cash flow and cash deployment.
While it was certainly a tough quarter for sales and profit our Machinery and Power Systems operating cash flow was better than its been in a long time.
We generated $3 billion worth of the operating cash flow in the quarter and thats a substantial increase from $1.3 billion in last years second quarter and weve put that to work for stockholders.
In the second quarter we have repurchased $1 billion of CAT stock and we announced a 15% increase in the quarterly dividend.
And in this mornings financial release we announced that with the strength of our cash flow balance sheet and cash on hand we expect to repurchase an additional $1 billion of CAT stock in the third quarter.
Repurchasing stock in the downturn has been a key part of our cash deployment strategy and we are executing on it.
So with that we are ready to open up the floor for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hey its Vertical Research Partners thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Rob.
Lets see  let me just start with our systems since you did highlight that division I mean you had one of the strongest margins youve ever had.
And wanted to just check in on whether you are seeking or actually just whether that was a mix related I know power gen  backup power gen has been awful whether its structure improve in the margin or division and then whether you are seeing any change in electric power? Yeah.
If you look actually Rob the dealer statistics that we put out yesterday morning you can see thats a little bit better than it was a year ago.
I think a lot of that has to do with  it was a kind of even turned down a year ago.
So I think a little bit on powers  on electric power in particular the comps will probably just continue to get little easier.
I think for power systems overall they had a pretty down good quarter.
Sales volumes down a little bit but some of the pieces were up.
I think more of their profit improvement had to do with a little price realization and theyve done a pretty good job on cutting costs.
As opposed to power system as opposed to construction and resource industries they didnt have near the decline in inventory that those other two segments did so the absorption impact was relative to the company in total lots more for them.
Im not sure if this is one you are willing to or able to answer but is it possible to look through the turmoil thats gone on in resources over the past six months and think about whats your margin would be in a more stable environment at these volume levels? Well you are right Im not going to throw out a number.
But I think in my opinion we had a one positive item the Siwei settlement would be in their numbers if you would have to take out that would actually make a little bit lower.
But we are in the middle of pretty heavy inventory decreases and that in total the amounts that they are really underselling real demand and the absorption impact probably more than offset that.
In sense we are moving from lets just say higher volumes over the last year to lower volumes this year.
Cutting cost is not a process and thats going to continue into the second quarter.
So if for example volume end-user demand kind of hung in at this level.
Our sales would probably go up a little bit because we would stop cutting inventory.
We wouldnt have the Siwei adjustments in there but costs would likely be lower as weve  as where part rates grew kind of the cost cutting activities that weve been doing.
So I guess my part is that would probably be a little higher than it is now but I dont know that I would want to throw out a number.
I guess that was my two.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation and then pose your question.
Hi good morning JPMorgan.
Good morning Ann.
Good morning.
Ill start out with the decremental margin question.
Doug youve been pretty vocal about driving for 25% pull-through.
Can you talk about the decrementals this quarter whether they were disappointing or not to you and are we going to get back to 25% by year-end? Hi Ann this is Brad Halverson and its a good question.
If you look at the second quarter I think there is a couple of things if you look to the right up to consider in terms of results.
On its close to 70% of our drop in sales are mining which is negative for mix.
But even putting that to a side if you just look at the period cost absorbed kind of impact you get to a decremental margin slightly under 30% and weve talked about 25% to 30% kind of a decremental margin in terms of our target.
So for the quarter you will get slightly under 30%.
If you look full-year at our outlook even with all the headwinds youll get to a decremental pull-through of 24%.
And this was something that we spend a lot of time on internally.
We have targets that weve committed to.
And if you look across our segments Resource Construction Power Financial Products each of them as we talked about before have made a commitment as to what theyll make at certain volume levels which ties to our external commitment and they are executing on that.
So when we get through the end of the year well be at 650 right around 24% which is with the mining headwind I think a good number.
Fair point.
Thanks for the clarification.
Its normally in the press release but it wasnt conspicuous either today.
My follow-up would be on pricing and you also mentioned in the press release some negative pricing I think it was in resources in Australia.
Can you talk about pricing overall and where you are seeing the most price obviously probably in mining but why would we be giving up pricing at this point in the cycle? Yeah again this is Mike.
Just a couple of comments I think when we talk price realization here its versus the second quarter a year ago and again I dont want to harp too much on this but we had an absolutely fabulous quarter a year ago.
Price realization in the second quarter last year kind of everything came up heads and we had just about $500 million reported for last year which was pretty close to a third of the whole year.
So I think to start the discussion off it was  in total and in particular for price a pretty tough comparison.
we did have slightly negative price realization well less than 1% for Resource Industries and for Construction Industries.
For Construction Industries it was mostly in Latin America and we have a few big deals going on down there that had a little tighter pricing.
And I think for mining in general its a tough market out there right now I mean volume is down quite a bit and it I think by and large were pretty close to holding our own again with a slight reduction in the quarter compared with a really big quarter a year ago.
I dont think theres any big fundamental shifts.
You didnt ask this question but Im going to answer it anyway.
As a part of this updated outlook before we were kind of talking about 1% of this year were not far off that and I think were looking at just a little under 1% for the full-year for the total company this year.
So it was a little tighter I think in the second quarter but pricing didnt overall go down.
it was helped a little bit by better number at Power Systems.
Okay wonderful.
(Inaudible) so I will turn it over.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ross Gilardi.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi Bank of America thank you.
Mike in talking about mining there is an awful lot of focus dealer destocking and the business as the big source of paying but this is a major order business.
So I mean isnt the real fundamental issue that the miners are just canceling orders and as long as that remains the case you are not going to see much of a pickup in production and margins unless until you see a pickup in orders? Yeah Ross thats actually a great point.
And one of the things I think that has been impacting orders remember we dont take orders directly from the mining companies we take orders from the dealers the dealers take orders from mining companies.
So if you look at the destocking inventory I think thats certainly having some impact on the dealer order rates to us.
So we definitely would like to see order rates pick up but I think certainly until we get through the inventory reduction there will probably a drag at least on orders placed on us.
But to your point Ill just kind of go back to it.
I talked about the surveys that suggest mining CapEx down another 20 for that to be the case I mean orders have to pickup.
I mean if dealers dont order anything or Im sorry customers dont order from dealers and dealers from us dont order anything or dont order more then 20% is just not I dont think its in the cards.
That would look like an optimistic number.
So I think for mining CapEx next year to be down 20% they have to order more dealers would have to order more from us than they are today.
Maybe I am not trying to make that overly complex but to say that even at 20% decline in mining CapEx considering the dealers ought to be out of inventory here pretty soon would have to mean more orders placed on us and thats a better way to say it.
Okay.
Thanks Mike and then you mentioned in the discussion of resources in the press release that that acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted operating profit by $33 million in resources and I believe thats with $135 million gain from Siwei in there.
So is that $33 million a year-on-year swing in earnings or should we assume that BUCY is loss making at this point? No no no.
I think what you need to do is go back in our second quarter release from a year ago one of our Q&amp;As in the back of that release had quite a bit of detail on Bucyrus and included in there we had pre-tax gains on the sale of the Bucyrus distribution we had some big ones.
So basically the gains from last year on the sale of Bucyrus distribution to some of the big dealers more than offset the $135 million this year.
I got you.
Just related to that though have you had an impairment test for Bucyrus yet and if not is there a next test coming up to do that annually? Yeah we do that annually.
I want to be careful on how I answer this.
If you do an impairment test it looks forward to what you think youre going to generate in that business over a longer period in time and we certainly wouldnt be using a cyclical low straight line going forward.
In our mining business I think there is reasonable headroom I certainly dont want to predict what a test would be but I think the chances of an impairment there are probably not it certainly not like but Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ashish Gupta.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning its CLSA.
I believe in the past that Doug mentioned that China is not overexcavated.
Now Im wondering kind of what the pickup in sales weve seen recently.
Im wondering how to think about the machine population over time now they are moving to more to maintenance from infrastructure.
Im just wondering how you guys view the long-term machine population in China relative to some of the more developed economies? Yeah.
I mean this is the case where there is a short-term story there is a long-term story.
I think clearly if you look at long-term I mean I know the market doesnt like to look out this far but if you look out at a point where China is developed say today to the level of Japan or South Korea or Europe maybe the excavator population the construction equipment population in terms of equipment relative to the economy currently is a lot lower than those developed countries.
So as the standard living wise is there at the level of development builds out over time the population of equipment in China will certainly need to grow.
I guess the big question you have is will that take three years five years 10 years 20 years 50 years.
And I think that depends a lot on the scale of Chinas growth.
From our perspective I think its going to grow.
I mean our view is it its probably I guess the second biggest economy in the world today and it is growing at a faster pace than the rest of the world and its important its going to grow and this level of development is going to grow.
And I think as a result of that construction equipment industry there its going to need to grow.
But it is true when we see that in our part sales in China.
As the population is increased and the equipment gets used it has driven part sales up in China over the past few years and as that population continues to develop thats a trend that will probably continue.
Yeah Doug Oberhelman here Ill just comment a bit on China as we see it in particularly as I see it.
Im not one in the camp of a China implosion that that China will implode and drag the world down into a massive black hole.
I think what we will see in China is very healthy with a much slower rate of growth and I would call it 5 to 8 so be it but that means the maturing of that market for construction equipment and all kinds of things.
And as that economy is double to the last decade weve seen our fuel population of machines grow and grow and grow allow parts and services opportunity for our dealers.
And our business model plays well with that.
And that's exactly what were trying to do.
Weve also been working hard on market share in China and that is up and were quite happy with that.
And as that year-over-year sales are up that is for all of our business in China are fairly substantially.
So were going to see China go in fits and starts.
Obviously and I have said this before to many that I hope we dont see another double-digit burn.
The after effects of that and the residue is painful for everyone 5% to 7% 8% growth rate is just fine.
Weve sized our business for that.
Well do very well with that particularly trying to get to a leadership position in market share and thats really the way we see China overall.
Mining certainly is an opportunity there.
were working on that and much of that is underground as you know.
we now have an underground offering to work with.
So a long-term China and mining are appealing to our short-term.
we go through cycles and were certainly in that downturn at the moment.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks for that Doug.
Just one quick follow-up when you guys look at your global fleet of machines with GPS data can you help provide us with some sort of indication of what youre seeing globally by region? Ashish Id like to give you the answer to that but of all the myriad of data that I made sure I was up to speak on before I came in here today I didnt look at that.
So I dont We cant do it regionally anyway but overall machine operation is service meter units on the fuel population that we have monitored today are relatively steady and have that.
And I think as we look back a few months.
So overall thats a worldwide number including the U.S.
China and everywhere else in the world.
So its hard to say that regionally.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Its Barclays.
Good morning guys.
Hey Andrew.
Hey Andrew.
Inc.</strong> Hey so if you look at your press release one of the things that you said is you believe its unlikely that dealers will continue to reduce machinery machine inventory in 2014.
So maybe Mike if you can talk about your conviction level on that statement this is first down cycle of that youve had with your PDCs with your product distribution centers.
so I guess what Im wondering is is there anyway to look at the overall inventory in the channel between the PDCs and the dealers to get a read on whether you think inventory is low enough that you can sort of make that statement because its hard for us because the PDCs are relatively new development.
Yeah yeah.
Thats actually a very good question Andy.
If you just look at dealer inventories theyre really today really on the lower side of the historic range actually really on the lower side.
If you include PDC inventories right now the sum of the two is probably right kind of maybe more in the middle of our reasonable range.
and were looking for continued dealer inventory reduction through the rest of this year.
I mean were looking at somewhere between $1.5 and $2 billion coming out in the second half.
So further from here I mean mining inventory probably be at about half the level but its started the year and construction down some.
Now your question about conviction level as in all things it depends upon what the economy does that our sales forecast for next year ends up being and we dont have that.
But if you look at just where months of supply are or the severity of whats happening and particularly in construction its trajectory of the way the sales chart looks.
I think there is a pretty reasonable conviction that dealer inventory is certainly not going to have the kind of declines that it had this year.
and probably I guess at this point I think it would be we will have a pretty reasonable conviction that its not going to go down certainly at least much next year.
But again Im going to qualify that because it depends a lot upon what happens to sale as into some degree when it happens next year.
Now just a couple of other comments; dealers are using PDC quite a bit more this year.
The usage rate the percent of dealer machines that are coming out of PDC is actually quite a bit higher in the second quarter than it was last year.
So it looks like dealers are using PDC inventory and thats a good thing.
However delivery times for product to dealers compared with a year ago are much less and I dont think thats probably a surprise so thats happened.
So I think there is a pretty reasonable conviction on dealer inventory thats going to slow or stop.
Inc.</strong> Mike its fair to say then that at the end of this year when the dealer inventory comes out as you expect that the addition of PDC plus the dealer inventories would then be at the low-end of your historical range versus dealer inventories in the past? Well that will dependent upon what our forecast for the first quarter sales is because when we look at it months of supply is kind of related to the forward-looking sales estimate for the quarter.
So since we dont have that out there right now its a little bit tough for me to just say that.
But I think our expectation is it would certainly be in the range yeah.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask a follow-up on Resource Industries margins.
I mean I know people are already hitting you on that.
I guess the issue that we have is the decremental margin in that particular business looks exceedingly low and youve talked about really accelerating cost takeout in 2Q.
Is it possible to quantify how much cost takeout you really started in 2Q in terms of expense so maybe we can sort of pass-through why the decrementals were so low.
I know you are going to tell me that mix is negative also.
Well mix is certainly negative for the total company because more of the decline was mining.
But we introduced this concept of profit curves inside the company demands of the business and each of our three segments have a positive curve.
In other words if sales goes up there is an expectation of a certain amount of profit when sales goes down there is an expectation that only that much will come out.
And so there is basically think of it as an incremental and decremental margin rate for each segment.
And the take-out rate for mining is a little higher than the 25% that we look at for the total company and thats probably not as fast.
So we are trying to take actions on costs that will allow us to get as close as possible for that sort of curve decremental margin rate.
So theyve been Im not going to quantify for you but theyve been doing  rolling lay-offs rolling temporary lay-offs for salaried management employees.
Weve taken R&amp;D down a little bit.
And the things that were going to do in the second half of the year we certainly havent announced to our own employees yet.
And so the specifics on that are probably going to start coming out I would guess over the course of the next month or so.
So its probably better to talk about the specific items after that but definitely were planning to take some more action here in the second half of the year.
Now one thing that and this is through the first half of the year and this will ease in the second half of the year its particularly earning decremental and that just period cost absorption.
I mean we added a lot of inventory in the first half of last year and in the second half.
Im not talking dealer inventory Im talking our inventory.
And this years first half weve taken inventory out.
We took about $0.5 billion out in the first quarter.
We took $1.7 billion up this quarter and that does primarily impacted construction and resource industries.
And the more vertically integrated you are the larger the impact is on your business and that's been a particular negative for Resource Industries in terms of incremental.
There was a positive last year and negative this year.
It's not really an operational item.
When you think about it it's not operating efficiency.
So as the inventory declines start to slowdown that should be a little better in the second half.
Inc.</strong> And for that segment the decrementals to inventory reduction would actually be higher than 13% to 15% as you said for the whole company? Yeah.
Weve not given out a number overall but if you think about it the absorption thing is basically down to fixed costs that essentially get absorbed in and released from inventory when you build and sell inventory.
If your entire business was just buying and selling material you wouldn't have a lot of value added to absorb.
Then the businesses where you are a lot more vertically integrated you would have more and I think Resource Industries is probably a little more vertically integrated than Construction for example.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi good morning Credit Suisse.
I guess just two quick follow-up questions.
Under your new forecast I think your forecast implied that mining OE would be taken down about $7 billion what are your assumptions under your new forecast because Im just trying to back into what mining OE will be as a percentage of total sales as we exit 2013 because I actually think that would be most helpful as we all have different macro assumptions or assumptions on mining.
But if we can get a sense of what mining OE would be I think that would be much easier for us.
and as I calculate it could be as low as 10% or as high as 15% and Im just wondering how off I am? And then I guess my second question Mike last quarter I think you said your core mining business would be down 50 [but you see] 15 and then aftermarket flat just can you talk to what your new assumptions are? Thanks.
Yeah again if you look at the last outlook and this outlook the main driver of the decline is dealer inventory.
So I mean thats the biggest driver and that is machines.
So its a combination of Resource Industries and Construction.
What were looking at in the back half of the year is probably more slanted to Resource Industries.
So I think proportionately of the decline in the outlook more of it would have been Resource Industries certainly than Construction.
And actually Power Systems is sort of flat to slightly up in the outlook.
Okay but you didnt answer the question on No we dont disclose new equipment separately from aftermarket in our results.
So I cant really give you mining equipment number separate in Resource Industries.
We still dont disclose it that way.
I am not trying to (inaudible).
What I am trying to tell you is it whatever your current estimate is probably the majority of the decline in the outlook and when I say majority I mean more than half in this context would be Resource Industries for equipment.
They have more of the defined and dealer inventory in the second half.
And then any change in your assumption so do you see this turning what you saw at aftermarket can you just talk to those relative to last forecast? Yeah I think directionally both of those numbers are kind of the same but remember when we were talking about the 50% that's not end-user demand that's what were selling to dealer's.
Yes.
And that has been impacted of course by the dealer inventories so that means that our sales of the traditional product is down.
The Bucyrus product is down a little bit but I think thats sort of proportion that you used with Bucyrus sales holding up much better than the traditional CAT product is absolutely true and a lot of that is because the dealer inventory impact is much more pronounced for trucks and dozers and wheel loaders then it certainly is the Bucyrus product.
And then the mining aftermarket? Yeah its holding up pretty steady.
We had a really strong first half last year.
Coal mining was still doing okay and then its kind of started to tail off a bit in the second half of last year but our expectations for aftermarket this year haven't really changed.
Okay thanks.
Ill get back in queue.
(Inaudible) that you would be concerned about.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
ISI Im just trying to gain some comfort with the second half implied margins.
if you pull out the settlement gain in 2Q the margins for the year so far about 8% and 9%.
the second half of the year is implying more at 11.5% to 12% operating margins.
So when I think about how to bridge that gap basically to find about 300 bps of margin improvement.
you are looking for sales growth of about 7% sequentially first half to second half.
and I can get a decent amount of margin improvement with a pretty healthy incremental margin on that sequential build increase but can you help us a bit with the mix to better understand the incremental margins the overhead absorption benefit.
Where do you see the 7% sequential increase which businesses maybe geography just help us a bit were trying to get a feel for how much could the incremental margins be the overhead absorption benefit what could it be on that sequential improvement? Yeah.
I think when you say incremental margins; you are talking about kind of from the first half to second half.
Yeah Im talking sequentially.
Yeah yeah.
I think there are three big things that are driving that.
one is just the absence of negative inventory absorptions.
and if you start with the premise that the second half of our year if you look at the implied guidance at the midpoint on sales and revenues it has sales in the second half of the year averaging about what they did in the second quarter but up a bit from the first half average.
so volume will be some hope and we would certainly expect our reasonable incremental margins on volume.
I mean Im not talking massive but our kind of target range is around 25% and so incremental margin on volumes second half versus first half a little better.
I think the second thing is absorption that was a pretty big deal in the first half and in particular in the second quarter we have $1.2 billion inventory declines.
so that had a pretty sizable effect.
And I think the third thing is to get to a point where inventory is not going to go down further our production needs to go up.
And thats certainly the case particularly for construction.
And so that are to be positive for this efficiency in general.
And then we have cost reduction activity weve said were going to do it.
We havent really  particularly because we havent announced it internally any specifics but were going to take additional actions in the second half of the year to lower cost so volume from efficiency as production goes up absence of the large negative cost absorption impacts and some additional cost reduction.
But where is it coming you mentioned construction but if you had to handicap the 7% increase in revenues sequentially first half second half is the increase mostly in Construction is it Power or even suggesting Resource Industries sequentially better.
Im just trying to get a feel to better gauge those incremental profitability? Yeah.
I think you would normally if you think about our fourth quarter our Power Systems business usually has a stronger second half than they do first half.
so I dont know anything this year that would cause that to be different and where we're ramping up production is mostly in Construction.
Okay.
And lastly not to even suggesting and tell me 2014 sales guidance but just going from what you've articulated in this press release and this discussion.
You feel inventory won't be lowered further next year as a base case right? So that's $3.5 billion of Cat sales growth next year if retail is flat I mean that's a caveat there.
But when I think about your commentary and your thoughts around Construction and Power can we walk away from this call saying base case Cat is thinking revenue growth at a bare minimum is up next year? I would love to answer that question directly.
But and I said about five times in my script we're not doing an outlook.
I think the message that we're trying to get people to think about is just the scale of the impact that dealer inventory reduction has had in this year.
And the likelihood that there is a lot of water to go under the bridge and so I'm hesitating a little bit on making too much in the way of predictions about next year.
Well I think given the scale of what's happened this year it's certainly not likely that that's going to happen again in terms of dealer inventory reduction.
So David Doug here.
Ive kind of been waiting to make this point and this inventory swing up and down has been painful on us and our dealers.
That is the fundamental reason we established our enterprise system structure organization and emphasis a few months ago working on lead times lead manufacturing and really getting after a condensed supply chain.
And that's my number one initiative between now and the end of '15 and I think I said in the last call we expect to see some of that in 2015.
There is lots of mine lots of fruit to be picked on this one.
And if there is ever a reason or a good way to get after it its this inventory swing that weve seen up and down.
I just want to make sure you all understand how important that is if we get that organized.
We have come a long way but we still have the ways to go with that and well start to see that manifest itself late next year and certainly into 2015 a little bit.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
With that Im afraid were at the end of our hour here today.
Thank you very much for joining in and well talk to you this time again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you Kate and good morning everyone and welcome to our earnings call.
This is Mike DeWalt Caterpillars Vice President of Strategic Services.
On the call today Im pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
Todays call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript well be posting it in the Investor sections of our Caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning well be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
The discussion of some of the factors that individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A thats Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of this year and also in todays forward-looking statements language.
Well start this morning with a review of the quarter our outlook for 2013 and a preliminary look at our sales and revenues for 2014.
For the third quarter sales and revenues were $13.4 billion and thats a $3 billion or 21% decline from the third quarter of 2012.
The decline was principally a result of change of dealer inventories and lower end-user demand.
The sales decline was mostly in our Resource Industries segment which is principally mining where sales were down 42% versus the third quarter of 2012.
Sales in our Power Systems and Construction Industries segments were each down about 7% in the quarter and driven mostly by dealer inventory changes and in the case of construction currency impacts.
End-user demand for both Power Systems and Construction Industries were relatively flat with last year.
Now the sales in our Resource Industries segment which is mostly mining had behaved more like Construction and Power Systems wed certainly be having a different and more positive discussion today.
But the reverse is also true if Construction Industries and Power Systems were seeing similar conditions as mining it would be a much more negative story in a way thats the silver lining in the down year like 2013.
Its good that we have different businesses that are all behaving the same way at the same time.
While Resource Industries sales are very low sales in Power Systems Construction Industries have been more stable.
In fact despite the drop in Resource Industries which we expect sales to be down about 40% this year; you might be surprised that our outlook expects 2013 to be the third highest year for sales and revenues in our history.
Profit in the quarter was $1.45 and that was down $1.09 from $2.54 in the third quarter of 2012.
The decline in profit is primarily a result of the $3 billion drop in sales and absence of last years gain on the sale of our third-party logistics business.
For the quarter our decremental operating profit pull-through and thats a decline in operating profit as a percent of the decline in sales and revenues was close to 30% if we exclude last years gain from the logistics business.
We think thats pretty good considering how much of the decline was from mining products which have a relatively higher variable margin.
We were able to do that because of the cost actions weve taken this year.
Being cost-flexible in a downturn is a key element of the strategy and were executing.
Volume-adjusted costs were down over $350 million in the quarter and excluding inventory absorption impacts it was more like $450 million.
Year-to-date we flexed our variable cost down with volume and beyond that weve taken out cost again excluding inventory absorption impacts by about $700 million and thats year-to-date.
To achieve that weve had numerous temporary plant shutdowns a reduction of more than 13 000 of our global workforce since this time last year weve had temporary layoff for thousands of salaried management employees weve had reductions in program spending substantially lower incentive pay and weve implemented general austerity measures across the Company.
In addition to lower cost weve also cut CapEx and through the first nine months of 2013 its down nearly 20%.
Now weve also continued to improve operational performance throughout the Company but unfortunately much of that improvement is being overshadowed by the decline in mining sales.
Weve improved safety in our factories weve improved product quality and were seeing that in the metrics that we track and thats what were hearing from dealers and customers.
For most of our major machine families and that includes mining overall our sales of products to end customers are doing better than our machine competitors as a whole.
Weve also done a good job executing in China and sales there are up about 20% year-to-date and almost 30% in the third quarter.
Okay thats a quick summary of the quarter.
Im going to move on to the outlook for 2013.
This morning we lowered the outlook for sales and revenues to about $55 billion.
Thats a decline of about $2 billion from the midpoint of our previous outlook.
Were now expecting profit in 2013 to be about $5.50 a share and thats down from $6.50 at the middle of the previous sales outlook range.
While sales in revenue expectations are lower across much of the company the decline was most significant in mining and thats in our Resource Industries segment.
Mining has been difficult to forecast and thats been the case all year.
And I think its worth recapping what happens to the outlook over the course of 2013.
And that story starts about mid-2012 when orders of new mining equipment began to drop substantially and they remained low through the remainder of 2012.
By the time we got to the outlook that we provided in January of 2013 weve been seeing few mining orders and we understood from customers that they intended to reduce CapEx because of that our outlook from last January included a drop in mining sales for 2013.
Now that said we were still seeing strong mining production levels from most commodities and we were expecting that mining companies will start ordering more as 2013 progress.
Now to be clear we were not expecting at that time a quick return to the higher order rates of early 2012 but we did expect some improvement later in 2013.
By the time of our April outlook orders had still not improved much so we lowered expectations in our outlook for mining.
Weve reduced the sales and revenues outlook again when we released our second quarter results in July and that brings us to today.
Were still seeing strong mine production.
In fact some of the big mining companies are setting production records.
But despite that were still not receiving nearly as many orders as we expected and our outlook today is lowered as a result.
With the outlook now is $55 billion we expect the full year to be down almost $11 billion from 2012 and about $8 billion of that is Resource Industries.
In terms of profit weve reduced our outlook for 2013 by $1 a share.
The most significant for the reason for the lower profit is sales volume.
Price realization currency impacts product mix and cost absorption from lower inventory are also contributing.
We did have a favorable tax item in the third quarter and thats helped to offset some of the profit declines.
With one quarter to go our full-year outlook for 2013 is essentially an outlook for the fourth quarter.
If you subtract nine months of actual from the full-year outlook youll see that were expecting sales and revenues in the fourth quarter to be a few $100 million higher than the third quarter but profit per share to be about 16% lower than the third quarter.
The $0.16 profit drop is from the absence of the favorable tax item in the third quarter and higher costs in the fourth quarter.
And thats common in Caterpillar that costs are up in the fourth quarter.
Its usually a high seasonal quarter for us and the first quarter is usually the low seasonal quarter.
Okay thats the outlook for 2013.
Lets turn to 2014 and well start with economics.
In general we think 2014 could be a better year for global growth.
However we are concerned.
Weve been in a similar position over the past two years.
When economic indicators began to look more positive we forecast better global growth that drove the expectations around key industries that are important to our business and we set our outlook.
As it turned out world economic growth was weaker than we expected.
Today while it looks like there is a good chance that the world economy could improve next year there is still much risk and uncertainty.
The direction of U.S.
fiscal and monetary policy remains uncertain and the climate in Washington is divisive.
Eurozone economies are far from healthy and China continues to transition for a more consumer-demand led economy.
In addition despite higher mine production around the world new orders for mining equipment have remained low.
As a result were holding our preliminary outlook for 2014 sales and revenues flat with 2013 in a plus or minus 5% range.
Were expecting some growth in Construction Industries relatively flat sales in Power Systems and a decline in Resource Industries.
Within the decline in Resource Industries mining remains very cloudy and tough to forecast.
The $8 billion decline that weve seen in 2013 has been largely from equipment sales.
And that decline in equipment sales has been split between lower end-user demand and the impact of dealer inventory.
Embedded in our outlook for down sales for Resource Industries in 2014 is more decline in end-user demand for mining equipment.
Our outlook for 2014 in fact includes a greater percentage decline in end-user demand in 2014 than weve had so far in 2013.
However thats partially offset by the impact of dealer inventory changes.
Dealers have reduced mining inventory substantially in 2013.
That means what weve sold to dealers this year is much less than what end customers have been buying from them.
For 2014 were not expecting nearly the scale of dealer inventory reduction that weve seen this year and that should help offset some of the decline in end-user demand.
Mining orders have been weak since the middle of 2012 and wed like to start seeing some uptick.
We all know this is an industry that has a history of quickly and significantly changing course both up and down and weve seen it move dramatically in both directions over the past five years.
That said and despite prospects for improved economic growth in 2014 and the continuation of strong mine production around the world we wont be increasing our expectations for Resources Industries until mining orders improve.
Now one thing you wont find in todays release around our 2014 outlook is a profit expectation and thats normal for us.
At this time of the year we commonly provide a sales outlook which weve done but not profit and thats because were still working our plans for next year.
Its our usual practice to provide our first profit outlook with our year-end release in January and we certainly expect to do that.
Id like to finish today with a few comments on cash flow and the balance sheet and then we can move on to the Q&amp;A.
Although it has been a challenging year for sales and profit it had been a very good year for cash flow.
In the third quarter Machinery and Power System operating cash flow was $2.1 billion and even if we stop today at the end of the third quarter the nine-month mark for the year those nine months would be our second best year for cash flow in history.
And thats enabled us to continue improving our balance sheet in fact our Machinery and Power Systems debt-to-capital ratio currently stands at about 34% and we expect this kind of improve again in the fourth quarter.
Weve also returned cash to shareholders.
Weve repurchased $2 billion of CAT stock this year and weve raised the quarterly dividend by 15%.
We had $1.7 billion remaining on our Board authorization to repurchase stock and that expires at the end of 2012.
Were not announcing additional stock repurchase today but our priorities for the use of cash are unchanged.
There are certainly many factors that could impact the future but the strength of our balance sheet and cash flow are positive indicators of our potential to complete the authorization before it expires.
Okay with that lets move to the Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
Good morning its Goldman Sachs.
Mike can you say more about the magnitude of the additional cost rationalization efforts youre considering that you outlined in Q&amp;A item four and just give us a sense on timing of the decision and the potential magnitude of savings if you can go out that far? Yes this is Brad Halverson.
Let me give a shot at that.
We talked and Mike talked about the fact that we missed the mining sales forecast this year theres no doubt about that and thats caused our forecast in sales to drop.
But inside our walls weve been planning for kind of a variety of items.
So if you look at our mining group theyve been taking significant cost action during the year.
And so a lot of those actions have been I would say cyclical and Mike talked to about our shutdowns and kind of our rolling layoffs and some of the CapEx reductions and those things.
And the fact is we are proud of the results that were forecasting for the year were looking at a decremental pull-through of around 30% which was within our target range.
And I would say had two significant headwinds what would be over $1 billion kind of headwind in operating profit and that would be the mining mix and the peer cost absorb impact.
So to get back to your question in terms of looking at further cost reductions we are looking at structural cost reductions cost reductions that we would take with us as volume would turn up.
And the types of things that we would be looking at would be shifting production between facilities rationalization of some product lines looking at some of our smaller facilities in terms of rationalization consolidations of functions benchmark activities span of control those types of things.
And we have a lot of those in consideration.
Were not kind of ready to talk about the magnitude of what that could be but theres clearly a lot of work going on in that area.
Okay.
And Brad as you alluded to obviously a lot of adjustments this year to the lower production levels.
I guess in the past weve seen your cost structure improve as youve gotten to more even production levels and Im wondering how should we think about the normalized cost structure today compared to where we were starting the year.
And I know youre not going to talk about 2014 but just could you give us a rough sense of the type of tailwind we should be thinking about? Yes I think its always hard when you get into a discussion of 2014 where were not getting a profit outlook.
But we have talked pretty consistently about our pull-through targets.
I cant say were going to hit them on the downside this year with huge headwinds were still committed to a 25% operating pull-through as business improves.
Thats an environment that I think that wed all like to see with our capacity and our cost structure will have in place in terms of ability to deliver that.
But I would say that we are in our planning process now.
That remains kind of our target.
There are some things that we may not be able to control or cannot control like the R&amp;D tax credit and those things which will be renewed or will not be renewed.
But we are committed to that 25% pull-through number.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
I was hoping to follow-up on Jerrys question.
I know you highlighted kind of reduction in workforce by 13 000 year-on-year.
Could you just; A maybe start by telling how much of that was that  from Brads comments was that all cyclical and not structural and was there any of that tied to any of the divestitures whether it was logistics or some of the Bucyrus distribution sales? Yes this is Mike.
There is a little bit if you look in our release we have a lot that shows acquisitions and divestitures but I think the majority of it would be around taking costs out in response to lower volume.
Okay thats helpful.
Thank you.
What I was hoping the cash going forward in and the operating cash flow from manufacturing business has been great.
Youve done a great job highlighting that.
As we look forward I know you mentioned that there is $1.07 billion left in the buyback and I think it runs through 2015 but just when we kind of fore strength the use of cash going forward given this is going to be a big cash generation year.
Can you just run through kind of the priorities again and highlight either why or why not we might not see more come back through buyback and kind of what the biggest variable will be to maybe seeing that $1.07 billion left accelerated? Yes this is Brad Halverson again.
We had  we are having a great cash flow year So the question is if our priorities change and the answer is no.
We will continue to protect our credit rating.
I would say that coming out of 2009 modeling our potential downside would have us keep a slightly stronger balance sheet in terms of what could happen in our recession or contagion which clearly we are not calling for but we would probably hold a little stronger balance sheet and then really looks at our growth opportunities across to our segments thats our second priority and we kind of have a pretty strong forecasting process and modeling for each of those two well continue to fund our pension and benefit plans.
Well continue to have a very sustainable dividend and then you get to the question of stock buyback and we thought given that equation and all that modeling that this year the $2 billion we did made sense and we still do have a $1.7 billion less.
We are calling for a flat outlook.
So I would say we would like to see how 2014 would materialize and what would be happening in 2014 before we would make a decision on that remaining $1.7 billion.
Okay.
Thats great.
Thank you very much.
I will get back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi ISI Group.
At the end of the day people are trying to figure out on flat revenues can you grow earnings next year.
So I know you dont want to give an EPS guidance for 2014 yet.
But can you at least take us through the puts and takes to think about the year-over-year change in clause mix incentive comp share count tax rate just to frame the discussion its obviously the guidance for this year Id argue about $0.50 lower the most of lower the most of buyer-seller expectations but even off that lower level if youre guiding revenues flat whats the reason to leave us all thanking earnings are up next year.
So can you help us with us on the puts and takes? Yeah David I really dont want to get in to a discussion around profit next year not because I wouldnt have an opinion on each one of those items that you discussed but we havent really provided a profit outlook we dont normally provide a profit outlook until January.
Were working on many of the things that you discussed right now as a part of our planning process.
There will be things that are positive there will be things that are negative.
Now Brads comment about our sort of operating level of incremental margin kind of stance but in a year where were not forecasting any change in sales Im not sure incrementals are a great great metric theres just not enough sales change for it to probably be a very valid metric at this point.
So Im going to if you have another question I will take it but I think well pass on on talking about 2014 profit because we just dont have an outlook to talk from.
Well how about on the sales as it relates to dealer inventory we used to target $3.5 billion of dealer inventory reduction for the year I think roughly 75% of that in mining can you update that target? I think its by and large similar weve not changed that were looking for another decline order magnitude the size of the fourth quarter Im sorry the size of the third quarter again and the fourth quarter.
So yeah well have a pretty sizable inventory reduction this year.
Next year if you look at our sales forecast were thinking of inventory being more neutral maybe a slight further decline in Resource Industries but maybe a slight increase in Construction but neither of that dramatic on balance pretty neutral.
So what you have is you have a tailwind if you will from dealer inventory and that would drive most of the improvement in Construction Industries that we talked about.
But were looking at a further decline in end user demand for mining and thats essentially offsetting the inventory decline or actually for Resource Industries little more than inventory decline.
Okay.
I appreciate it thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
Its Longbow Securities.
There is two pieces I do like if we can talk a bit more.
One the change in outlook in Power Systems which was really talked about being flat and now is down 5% for the year would be the decline.
If things been pushed out and you talk about some color with decline in order trends there.
So maybe we can get some feel for next year? And then the big decline in profitability of Construction that occurred in the quarter.
I guess thats mostly from lack of production inventory liquidation and if you could maybe give us a color behind whats going on there as we look forward? Yeah youre right.
Well Ill start with Construction here.
Youre right from a margin standpoint it was not a great quarter for Construction.
Their operating was around 6%.
If you look at whats going on in construction theyve got a few days that right now are headwinds for them.
One is actually product mix.
Their sales arent down all that much.
But if you look at whats down and whats up youd have some of their larger products in construction maybe as far up as a D8 tractor.
Thats the largest bulldozer that they make and maybe some of the larger wheel loaders that are part of the construction business but that are frequently used in mining applications.
So at the very top end of Construction Industries youd have some products that I have a crossover into mining.
That part of their business is down as you might expect from mining.
The part is really picked up is really the small one our BCP Building Construction Products division.
Theyre actually up nicely this year.
So youve got this negative mix right now thats kind of weighing a little bit on Construction Industries.
Theyve also taken some and delivered some sizable orders in Brazil directly to the Brazilian government.
And in fact its a large order.
We delivered some in the second quarter and even more in the third quarter.
And in fact weve recently won some more business there.
So thats a good story on sales.
The problem is its a very big order and the pricing on it I would just describe it as you would expect with a large order lean.
Also in Construction Industries just from a competitive standpoint its always a tough market out there with competitors but youll notice price realization is negative in the quarter for Construction.
A chunk of that is because of the large Brazilian deal and a chunk of that is just because its a very very tough environment from a pricing standpoint.
And I would say particularly in Europe its been tough.
Over the course of the year we have been reducing our inventory as well.
We have PDC inventory and thats been coming down all year long.
And weve participated in selling that.
So I think those things have been negative for Construction Industries and in the quarter.
I think at some point in time here when the mix for them gets maybe a little bit more back than normal and there are no longer cutting inventory there is good potential for margin to improve there.
But at the moment its kind of a tough environment for them.
You asked a question on Power Systems.
Power Systems related to change in forecast to down 5 from flat whats going on color wise order wise we get some idea as we go through the rest of this year into next year? Yes when we started the year we thought it was going to be flattish.
So I think if you kind of go back to January.
Electric power is probably kind of a level below total Power Systems.
If you look at power petroleum turbines marine rail I think weve been probably more surprised with the downside on electric power than any of the other segments.
Its the weakest segment of the year.
In fact if you look at the third quarter versus third quarter its the most significant reason for the sales declines so its off the most.
Actually between the last outlook and this outlook kind of going from the midpoint of $57 million to the midpoint of $55 billion Power Systems was fairly neutral into that it didnt really changed much.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Volkmann.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
Hi its Jefferies.
And a lot of the questions have been answered I guess.
But Mike I think you were saying if Im reading this right that you think the Resource Industries business on the OE side will be down again next year.
Is that also true on aftermarket? No I think  thats actually a good question and Im going to expand a little bit more on the specific question you asked.
I think our view on that is probably flat next year.
I would say if there is one thing in mining I mean its been difficult to forecast overall.
Ive kind of went through that from a machine standpoint.
I think another place where the actual has been a little bit more negative than we thought when we came into the year is actually on parts.
Its not down substantially but in an environment where mine production is up or part sales even to be down a little bit is not what you would normally expect.
We do think that mining customers are delaying some maintenance and repair.
Theyre working hard to improve for this year their results and we certainly understand that.
Were taking a lot of cost action thats pretty short-term focus as well.
But that kind of behavior cant go on forever.
So its probably increasing the likelihood that the further out you go the needs for rebuild and repair are going to go up.
So it has been a little bit of a negative this year.
Were thinking now it is probably flat for next year.
Great and then can I just ask you in your forecast for the top line next year? What are you assuming for price? Quite modest we werent specific on that in the release.
But I would say well less than 1%.
But positive? But positive yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Seth Weber.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
LLC</strong> Hey good morning its RBC.
I just wanted to go back to the Resource category again.
You mentioned that youre not cutting back on capacity there.
I mean could you just explain to us your thought process? I mean it seems like trends are going to be soft for the foreseeable future anyway.
I know its an industry that can turn quickly but youve added a lot of capacity.
Can you just walk us through maybe why youre not making any adjustments there yet? Yes Ill use a couple of examples here Seth just to kind of maybe highlight this.
If you think about mining trucks we make some in India but for the most part we make most of our  essentially with very few exceptions all of the large mining trucks in Decatur Illinois in one factory.
The capacity that weve added for that over the past few years has been around reshaping the assembly process to do more like assembly lines rather than stall build there.
And weve added capacity and component manufacture indicator.
So if you think large mining truck its already centered around one factory.
And in terms of physical capacity it doesnt make any sense to close down an assembly line or get rid of machining equipment that you put in place.
So I think just from a taking out physical capacity standpoint there is just not a lot of scope to do that.
I think secondly were about 12 months away looking in the rearview mirror of maybe 15 months of record production.
I mean this is an industry that goes up quickly it goes down quickly.
What you need to be able to do is flex your costs and that weve worked pretty hard to do.
And weve done a pretty decent job of that in Resource Industries.
I mean if you look at them year-to-date for Resource Industries their operating profit sort of incremental pull-through third to third on a substantial decline in sales was just over 30% which considering that margin is very good.
So theyve worked a lot on taking out costs but were going to need the physical capacity.
Its an industry that changes around quickly and so there is just not much sense in taking out half of the factory lets just say.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So maybe if I could just follow-up on Steves question on the after-market.
Do you feel like  do you get any sense that youre losing share to gray market or the producers are bringing stuff in any of the service work in-house or you think it just theyre kind of bringing off existing parts inventory? Yes thats a good question.
I mean youre always concerned about competitors in that industry.
And frankly it is a lot harder to figure out what your market share is about because you dont have the kind of unit reporting of what your competitors are doing.
So its an educated guess but its really tough to forecast market share there.
What I think were seeing right now is lot of new equipment was purchased over the last couple of years and where mining companies have a choice about the uptime and where they are pushing equipment hard they would be tending to do that with the newer equipment that they have.
And we do think theyre delaying some maintenance as well.
So our general feeling around it is that it will come back.
Weve not seen any seismic shifts there.
Our dealers are highly engaged with the service and support activity as a customers theyre very good at it.
They have significant rebuild program.
So I think to some degree its around mining companies working really hard right now to improve their operating results and a lot like were doing.
LLC</strong> Right.
Okay thank you very much Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Casey.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
Wells Fargo Securities good morning everyone.
Couple of questions; first if we could go back to the Construction Industries comments.
Mike I think you talked about new Brazilian business contract that you won recently.
Is that coming on with about the same margins as the one that the contract that you are finishing up? And then on the mix issue within Construction Industries the BCP versus the large equipment are you seeing any of the larger equipment sold into mining coming back on to the market in the form of used equipment? On the first part of that with Brazil the more recent orders that weve want are volume wise are less than whats been flowing through.
But I think the pricing would be  Ive actually not seen it but I would guess it is probably pretty similar.
In terms of used equipment coming back on the market I have not heard  I wouldnt plan to know that as a firm yes or no but if you look at actual mine production.
So lets say youve got some D8 tractors working in a small surface coal mine.
Mining production has actually come up a bit.
So it would surprise me that there would be a flood of that kind of equipment on the market.
I think its more a case where theyre working what they have and not buying new.
But as I say that Andy I dont have any facts or data to back that up.
Okay.
And then if I could sneak in actually a positive question.
You realized about 50 basis points higher gross margin in Q3 than Q2 Yeah.
Despite lower revenue and lower price realization can you talk about the main drivers of that sequential improvement? Yeah.
Its been all about cost.
I mean we have been hard at work taking out costs.
So that has been a piece of it.
I would be remiss if I didnt take a little bit of credit though for this tax item we had in the third quarter and we did have a little bit less negative of a currency drag.
But I think given decline in sales second to third you have to look at costs.
We talked about being favorable year-over-year 350 in the third quarter 450 without inventory absorption and year-to-date were about seven.
So we got more than half of the year-to-date cost reduction actually in the third quarter.
So that has been a big focus for us.
A lot of the actions that we started putting in place in late spring early summer have started to bear fruit.
Mike let me just interject here.
Doug Oberhelman on two items.
One is price in market share and the other one is cost.
Picking up where Mike left off on cost for example.
If you look at second quarter of 2013 quarter-to-quarter same profit per share both quarters on $1 billion less of sales kind of Mikes point.
We have everybody here on a cost lockdown bench.
As I mentioned in one of my quotes in the release if you sort through the absorption factor of inventory and adjustment and everything we really take it out $700 million a lot of that is incentive pay rolling layoff et cetera.
But there is a pretty good chunk in there.
Its starting on structural cost reduction which well see picking up as we go forward.
But certainly that 30% decremental operating profit is one we watched a little than I want.
But when you factor in the mining mix its sort of justified but its something we will really concentrate on.
As we see sales increase at some point they will likely we expect to get back that 25% or so range of incremental operating profit so all hands on deck here on cost structure and more coming.
Secondly on pricing there was a question on pricing in 2014.
We have really been on a strong effort here with our dealers to balance market share and price the last four years and we have seen our market share grow substantially on a global basis.
And just as a reminder inside China while our China business is up overall its up primarily because of increased market share and were in a nice position there going forward a market.
I think we have to be in if were going to be the global leader down in the road.
With that weve said to our customers that we would expect to keep pricing in line with inflation or so.
And so weve been able to do this through  gain market share through cost reduction and quality improvements while getting some price and Im just going to roll that in as a general statement to 2014.
I would not expect a great price realization in 2014 were not going to budget that in.
But at the same time Id anticipate and hope for more market shares gains.
It might be modest while we maintain some price.
I think thats the balance weve been on and up to maintain.
Remember every extra machine we put into field population drives a tremendous piece of aftermarket sales for us which we really like.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
LLC</strong> Its Vertical Research Partners good morning.
Youve mentioned a lot on mining.
One question I had is just you laid out last quarter of the potential in the market it was down somewhat for you to be up somewhat on the inventory swing and the arithmetic made sense there.
And obviously you are forecasting down now and youre saying that the retail will be worse.
The underlying question really is if you heard from mines and their sort of strategic planning in the walk they do with you thats not just a couple of weeks or a month or two forward reflecting current orders.
But reflecting the next year that they sound that much more cautious and the conversation is like that drive the outlook that mining could be down next year OE? Yeah Ill take that Doug again here Rob.
I have had several personal meetings with our mining customer CEOs the last few weeks month or so on this very question.
And it strikes me that two things are going on the bullishness in which they answer that question on existing mines.
If you look at a couple of big announcements even in last week of increased iron ore production or increased coal production and in my discussions with these guys its been pretty bullish in terms of what they see for existing mines in the scope of a very bearish situation for any expansion.
Any expansion in the near-term is dead.
Its over.
Its not going to happen.
But they are really focused on increasing productivity getting a lot more mine production out with less resource.
Thats one of the reasons I think weve seen fewer replacement sales and aftermarket sales frankly in the last few months.
But they are all fairly optimistic on existing mine production also in the medium-term because if you get back to whats going to happen with the world economy nobody knows and Im not going to forecast it here today you know as we took a pretty benign view of all that in our release this time because we dont know.
But they are feeling I think for the most part that even one to three years out the world will grow.
China will not implode.
It will continue to attract iron ore and some coal and they feel that they want to get that out of existing resources.
At some point that plays right to our hand just not right now.
LLC</strong> Great.
Thank you Doug.
One unrelated follow-up I guess.
Locomotives I think you mentioned in the press release were down were coming into a pre-buy year that was a bit of a surprise.
Could you talk about why that might be down on a little mining mix? And then whats your status on Tier-4 freight locomotives? Okay.
Well go back to the first part of that.
This is  this should end up being an up year for locomotive sales a pretty good year.
And I think our view on next year is actually reasonably positive as well.
Now that said its not  in some ways its a little bit like turbine.
Its shipments on big orders from customers.
They dont go out necessarily smoothly month-by-month month.
So there was a small decline quarter-over-quarter it had more to do actually with the pretty good third quarter last year.
So I wouldnt want to send any weird messages there I mean I think its a case where our locomotive business is going to be up this year.
We expect a decent year in 2014 as well.
Yes I want to comment on that as well.
Were really happy with our rail division and our locomotive business.
Weve seen steady market share gains.
Weve seen a lot of cost reduction there.
Were really happy with that and have a lot more plans coming.
With your question  regarding your question on Tier-4 I think in November we will ship our first production locomotives powered by LNG.
And weve been working on that all year.
Its a big effort we have and its one way to address the Tier-4 situation coming up in a couple of years for rail.
They will hit it  the first ones will hit the tracks in November and theyve been through quite a bit of experimentation and were optimistic on that.
In terms of diesel power side we have a lot of experience with diesel Tier-4 on our off-road business that spills over into locomotive and while were a couple of years away well be using a lot of same technology and in good shape.
But Im really excited about the possibility of LNG power locomotives here in the near-term particularly with the smart spread being so low at the moment.
So Im really happy with rail and locomotives.
This will be I think a record year for them and next year ought to be continue on that as well.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Thanks Rob.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Inc.</strong> Its Barclays.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Andy.
Inc.</strong> Mike can you just talk about your comments that you made earlier in the call about dealer inventory in construction that it could be up next year maybe your visibility around that? And as part of that is it possible to quantify your PDC inventory now versus maybe this time last year and the peak in that PDC inventory? Yes yes.
I dont  Im actually glad youre asking me to clarify that a little bit because I just want to be clear were not expecting construction inventory to be up a lot were not looking for mining inventory to be down a lot.
The reason for my comment was in a year that were not expecting a lot of dealer inventory change thats 2014 thats not to say there might not be a little shift up and a little shift down here and there by business.
So I wasnt trying to signal a big build or a big reduction.
Im just trying to say that it doesnt mean that its going to be zero everywhere.
So construction I think whether or not and how much inventory is built next year will kind of depend upon how things are looking in the marketplace later in the year.
So as 2015 looking up you know there is 2014 start slow and start building as you go through the year and if thats the case then dealers may want to add some inventory later in the year.
Well have to actually see how the year kind of shapes up and what 2015 is looking at when we get later in the year.
So I think the takeaway from today should be our expectation based on what we see today is probably not much changed.
In terms of PDC inventory we dont quantify that directly separately but I can tell you its less than half of the peak.
So its actually fairly I would say at a good level.
Right now I dont  it will change seasonally.
It will probably go up some in the fourth quarter and maybe a little more in the first quarter as we kind of get ready for the spring selling season.
What customers buy has a lot more variability in it than what we sell.
So dealers usually build some inventory in the first quarter.
And probably late this year first quarter next year we probably build a little piece of the inventory ahead of the spring selling season.
So some shifts up and down would be normal based on seasonality but its less than half what it was at the peak.
Inc.</strong> Thats helpful Mike.
And Mike or Doug maybe could you tell us do you think you will see any impact from the government shutdown the uncertainty in Washington? And maybe just your sales guidance for 4Q you are talking about a slight uptick in sales.
Yet if we look at your sales trend throughout the year 3Q was pretty low versus 2Q and your backlog is sequentially lower.
So where should we expect the sales pickup and why should we expect the sales pickup? Yeah Id say you will see the sales pickup in Power Systems.
That normally happens on turbines rail.
We usually have a little bit bigger fourth quarter.
Ill handle the shutdown piece of your question a little bit.
I would say there has been minimal impact on us so far.
However Ive been with a number of small medium-sized contractors the last two weeks from around the country and that is the first or second question they ask because theyre feeling it.
And for the most part theyre fairly busy right now but they are worried about where this goes.
I would say that they probably  their answer wouldnt be that they felt it but theyre worried about feeling it in the future and thats frankly one of the reasons for our uncertain comments or our comments in here about uncertainty in political arena because I dont know whats going to happen in the next 90 days.
But if you look backwards Ive got to believe that the rancor in Washington the dysfunction in Washington over the last three years has not helped grow the economy any faster than 2% thats probably not a real brilliant deduction.
But I think if it wouldve been quieter out there we wouldnt  not have had that wed probably had higher growth.
So I look at it kind of just the opposite when I think about it.
Id like it to go away.
I think we have higher growth but I dont think its going to go away and I think its going to be with us for some time and thats just the atmosphere in which we have to operate.
Were working on everything within our four walls that we can do to make sure were operationally efficient doing what we can do to lower cost because I dont know whats going to come from outside maybe led by the politicians maybe not.
Inc.</strong> Thanks guys I appreciate it.
Thanks Andy.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation; then pose your question.
LLC</strong> Yes JP Morgan thanks.
Doug back to the points you made about focusing on cost and lowering costs.
I mean we still missed the goal of 25% pull through which youve been pretty adamant you were going to meet and we missed it by a longshot this quarter.
Should we take away from that that youre just not moving fast enough or that youre structurally disadvantaged going forward because of the high fixed cost in mining to Mikes point earlier that most of the mining equipment comes out of one plant and therefore there isnt really the opportunity to take as much structural cost out of the system as we need in this environment? Yeah.
And Ill let Brad to just start on that and Ill finish it up with a couple of observations.
Ann we have talked about on the decremental side being in a range of 25% to 30%.
And so were on the high-end of that.
I think to extent we had a normal decline in volume which spread across our segments.
I believe we would be living to that today.
The fact is we have a huge mix issue with the mining margins and the peer cost absorbed impact.
I talked about them earlier but theyll be over $1 billion and over 10% impact on pull-through in and of itself.
And so being at 30% decremental giving where the volume came from I would say would be within our expectations for what happened.
And I would say let me  Im sorry.
One thing that maybe we havent commented on enough is that living within this 30% has been partly due to the strong performance of our Power Systems business.
We had  even with sales down good margins in that business and Cat Financial is having a great year.
Their Financial Products profit will be up 25% year-to-date.
Their portfolio is in great shape.
Their past dues are well down from last year.
And I think probably maybe more importantly than that the percent of the deals that they finance is up I would say a significant number.
Yeah.
So yeah and we want to be at 25% and I think that our cost structure that were working on is to make sure as we move forward even to the flat to as we would recover would be in that range.
Ann this is Mike.
I just want to make one other comment to you.
If youre pulling numbers straight off the face of the statements you might be getting something a little worse than that.
Remember we had a gain last year.
I think order of magnitude $270 million when we sold our logistics business and when were talking about 30% were pulling that out thats not operational.
Ill just finish the discussion on this with and Ann youve heard me saying I think everybody has.
And I look at 25% incremental on the way up and 25% or 30% or so 25% or so on the way down over the period.
Weve had some quarters on the way up where we at 25% we had some where we were at 35%.
And Id say this is going to be the same thing on the way down.
But generally thats our expectation and all of our internal planning on cost structure is based on that.
While its a little bit over now and Id argue a little bit that were not within our range that I think we often close.
Losing 11 billion off the top-line in a year is pretty tough to go through.
And weve taken a lot of cost out of it to help that but its just happened pretty quick.
But my expectation hasnt changed I will tell you that.
LLC</strong> I guess my push back Doug and I appreciate what you are saying that when your volume is down this much it is hard to manage bottom line.
But I guess I would push back and say are you really moving quickly enough.
And when can we expect to hear whats next.
When are we going to hear about all these things you are looking at? Yeah and I would say that again with what happens I think we are moving very fast with what we can do.
I would say you are going to hear more about the things that we are actively working on as we speak when we release in January would be my guess.
LLC</strong> Okay so we wont have to wait for CONEXPO I guess thats what my fear was.
No I thought  I mean I dont know.
I cant tell you for sure but if you ask me what my estimate would be I would say that we would be looking to do it in the release of January.
LLC</strong> Okay Ill leave it there thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
All right we are at the top of the hour I just wanted to thank everyone for being on the call today and well be talking to you over the course of the next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar full year and Q4 2013 results conference call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our year-end earnings call.
This is Mike DeWalt Caterpillars vice president of strategic services.
On the call today Im pleased to have our chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and group president and CFO Brad Halverson.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
Any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you would like a copy of todays call transcript well be posting it in the Investor section of our Caterpillar.com website in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning well be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
The discussion of some of the factors that individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1-A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of 2013 and also in the forward-looking statements language continued in todays release.
Now in addition to that theres a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and that can be found in todays financial release which has also been posted on our website at caterpillar.com.
Okay lets get started.
And this morning Ill be covering four main topics before we get to the Q&amp;A.
Theyre fourth quarter financial results a recap of 2013 the 2014 sales and profit outlook and Ill start this morning with the fourth topic and thats the $1.7 billion of stock repurchase that were expecting in the first quarter and the new $10 billion stock repurchase authorization that we announced this morning.
Now to set the stage for stock repurchase its good to know that we had a great year for cash flow in 2013 and finished the year with a strong balance sheet.
We set a new record for machinery and power systems operating cash flow at about $9 billion.
And that was about $1 billion more than the previous record from 2011.
We ended 2013 with a machinery and power systems debt to capital ratio of 29.7%.
Thats almost 8 full percentage points below where we ended 2012 and our lowest debt to cap in more than 25 years.
You have to go back to 1987 to find a lower one.
2013 was also a year where we repurchased $2 billion in Caterpillar stock and last year we raised the quarterly dividend by 15%.
2013s cash flow and the strength of our balance sheet underpin this mornings announcement that we expect to complete our existing stock repurchase authorization and our boards approval for a new $10 billion program.
So record cash flow strong balance sheet $2 billion of share repurchase in 13 plus a number of $1.7 billion expected this quarter and a new $10 billion authorization.
We think thats all great news for shareholders and a reflection of strong operational performance in 2013 and our confidence over the long term.
Lets move on to fourth quarter results.
And certainly while 2013 was a tough year were pleased to be ending it on a more positive note with sales and revenues nearly $700 million above our outlook and profit $0.25 a share above the outlook.
For the quarter sales and revenues were $14.4 billion and thats about $1.7 billion or about 10% below the fourth quarter of 2012 which was $16.1 billion.
Profit per share was $1.54 and thats up $0.50 a share from the fourth quarter last year.
While profit is up we did have two large items that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 that had a sizable impact on profit.
We had the $580 million goodwill impairment that was negative to profit about $0.87 per share last year but we had a $300 million favorable tax settlement in 2012 and that helped profit by $0.45 a share.
So if you exclude those two large items our quarter over quarter profit per share improvement was about $0.08.
Now for sales more than all the quarter over quarter sales decline was in resource industries which is principally mining.
Resource industry sales were down 48% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
That substantial decline was the result of both lower demand from mining customers and from changes in dealer inventory.
While resource industry sales in the fourth quarter were well below the fourth quarter of 2012 they were about the same as the previous quarter and that was the third quarter of 2013.
Sales in each of the past two quarters have been roughly $3 billion for resource industries.
And Ill talk about the 2014 outlook in a few minutes but its worth noting at this point that the $3 billion a quarter that weve seen for the past couple of quarters for resource industries is about what were expecting to average in the outlook for 2014.
Probably a little below $3 billion a quarter in the first half and a little better in the second half.
On a much more positive note fourth quarter sales in construction industries were up 20% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Power system sales were up 5% and financial products revenues were up 3%.
Thats great news and that demonstrates balance in our business.
While we serve a number of cyclical industries they dont all move the same way at the same time and its great that construction and power systems were up.
Now excluding the goodwill impairment that happened in the fourth quarter of 2012 operating profit declined about $166 million.
Thats $166 million on a sales and revenues decline of about $1.7 billion and there were certainly a number of puts and takes but overall were pleased with our operational performance and the decremental operating profit pull through of about 10% in the fourth quarter.
Manufacturing costs were favorable $480 million versus the fourth quarter of 2012 and SG&amp;A and R&amp;D were favorable combined about $200 million.
Cost performance was the main driver of the good decrementals and that was in a quarter where we didnt get any help from price realization which was about neutral and our sales mix was unfavorable because more than all of the sales decline was in resource industries and because of mining.
Bottom line for the quarter resource industries was down but power systems construction and financial products were all better than the fourth quarter of 2012.
Okay so thats the quarter.
Lets move on to a recap of the full year which was a tough one particularly for our resource industry segment.
Back in January of 2013 when we started the year and provided our first outlook the midpoint of our 2013 range expected sales and revenues to be down from 2012.
In fact sales in 2013 were down and the decline in mining sales in our resource industry segment was much more significant than wed expected.
As a result we ended 2013 with sales about $10 billion or 16% below 2012 and of that $10 billion about $8 billion was in resource industries and about $1 billion each was in construction and power systems.
Now as a result of that $10 billion sales decline profit was down as well from $8.48 a share in 2012 to $5.75 in 2013.
While profit was down our operational performance for the year was good.
Our decremental operating profit pull through was less than 30% and that was despite a major headwind from product mix.
With most of the years sales decline coming from relatively high-margin mining products the sales mix headwind on profit was about $750 million in 2013 versus 2012.
We also had a sizable headwind from negative cost absorption and that was related to our large inventory reduction in 2013.
We had good performance despite those headwinds because we took action on costs.
Excluding the cost absorption impact from inventory our manufacturing R&amp;D and SG&amp;A costs were collectively down $1.2 billion in 2013.
That $1.2 billion improvement was the result of favorable material costs lower incentive pay short term actions that we took like temporary plant shutdowns and rolling layoffs.
And as the year progressed we started on more structural actions.
The restructuring actions that we took in 2013 resulted in nearly 2 000 fewer management and support employees 4 500 fewer production employees and the closing downsizing or consolidation of a number of manufacturing facilities.
While those restructuring actions spanned the company they were more concentrated in resource industries.
We incurred $200 million of restructuring costs in 2013 of which about $130 million was in the fourth quarter and were expecting another $400 million to $500 million in 2014.
Ill talk a bit more about that when I cover the 2014 outlook but before I do that I didnt want to end this recap of 2013 without giving a little rest of the story.
While 2013 was a year overshadowed by the big drop in mining there were a lot of good things that happened at Caterpillar.
First while mining was negative were a diverse company.
We serve a wide range of industries across the globe.
And while sales declined in construction and power systems that decline was small compared with resource industries.
Power systems profit was within $50 million of its 2012 record and our financial product segment delivered record profit in 2013.
The fourth quarter of 2013 top line for construction power systems and financial products and their bottom lines were better than the fourth quarter of 2012.
I mentioned it earlier and I think its worth mentioning again it was a great year for cash flow.
We set a new record for machinery and power systems operating cash flow at $9 billion.
We repurchased $2 billion of Caterpillar stock in 2013 and we raised the dividend by 15%.
We ended with a strong balance sheet with over $6 billion in cash and the lowest debt to capital ratio in 25 years.
It was also a year of inventory correction for both us and for our dealers.
We reduced our inventory almost $3 billion and dealers reduced their inventories by more than $3 billion.
They were significant sales and production headwinds in 2013 but we think the significant impact on our sales is largely over.
That doesnt mean that every quarter well be exactly flat but overall for the company we continue to believe that inventory changes will be a big story in 2014 like it was in 2013.
In 2013 we also improved our market position for CAT machines again and made particularly strong gains with excavators in China.
And speaking of China our total sales and revenues there in 2013 were about $3.5 billion and that was up more than 20% from 2012.
From an operational perspective we also continue to make improvements in safety and quality and while we understand that quality improvement is continuous our dealers and customers give us feedback that let us know theyre seeing results.
So with that recap lets move on to the outlook.
Overall sales and revenues in 2014 are expected to be roughly similar with 2013 at about $56 billion.
And that would be in a range of about plus or minus 5%.
There are encouraging signs in the world economy and were seeing some in our own business and that gives us optimism for sales in our construction and power systems segments and we think theyll each be up about 5% in 2014.
However we continue to be cautious about the mining industry.
Despite prospects for the improved economic climate and continued strong production at mines we are expecting a sales decline in our resource industry segments of about 10% in 2014.
The good news is mine production has generally been up and improved in 2013 and we think it will likely be up again in 2014.
The bad news is that orders for new equipment remain pretty low.
But we dont think that can go on indefinitely and we remain positive on our long term view of mining.
Based on the size and age of existing equipment fleets we believe that miners are buying new equipment at a rate thats well below the average replacement level theyll need going forward.
As an example we think that our sales of large mining trucks in 2014 will be around half the long term replacement level.
That should be a positive for sales in the future.
In 2013 we took substantial actions to reduce cost and were expecting to take more in 2014.
That means that were expecting additional restructuring actions and charges in 2014 of $400 to $500 million and thats in addition to the $200 million of restructuring costs that we had in 2013.
The most significant item in 2014 is the restructuring of our Gosselies Belgium facility.
We announced that program on December 23 of 2013 and its designed to improve the competitiveness of our European manufacturing footprint by refocusing our current Gosselies operations on final machine assembly test and paint with limited component and fabrication operations.
The actions there will include reshaping the supply base for more efficient sourcing improving factory efficiencies and workforce reductions.
Our proposals are subject to Belgian ministerial approval and we think a decision by the Belgian minister of employment will occur in the first quarter of 2014.
And subject to that approval we expect to recognize about $300 million of employee related separation charges throughout 2014.
The remaining restructuring costs of $100 million to $200 million that are anticipated in our outlook are related to a wide range of actions across the company and a part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations.
While were expecting numerous actions we dont expect that individually the charges would be significant.
We expect that the restructuring actions taken in 13 and that were anticipating for 14 will be about $200 million favorable to our ongoing costs in 2014 and $400 million to $500 million per year favorable to ongoing cost after 2015.
Now the most significant reason the 2014 impact is lower than the impact after 2015 is the timeframe involved in implementing the program in Gosselies Belgium.
Its extensive and it will take several years to complete.
In addition the other actions that were expecting to take in 2014 will occur over the course of the year and as a result were expecting partial year benefits in 2014.
In total we estimate the after-tax impact of the restructuring charges in 2014 to be between $0.50 and $0.60 a share.
Our profit outlook for 2014 is $5.85 a share at $56 billion of sales and revenues excluding the $0.55 midpoint of the restructuring charges and about $5.40 per share all in including the restructuring.
Now there are a number of reasonably important moving pieces that are factored into our 2014 outlook and weve provided a listing of those key items in the profit outlook section of this mornings financial release.
And if you havent already I would encourage you to read through that.
So in summary on the outlook $56 billion of sales and revenues in 2014.
Thats relatively flat with 13 in a range of plus or minus 5% and $5.85 a share without restructuring $5.30 all in.
One last point on the outlook and thats around the first quarter.
For the full year our sales and revenues outlook expects roughly flat sales.
And sales flat with the first quarter of 2013 is probably a reasonable ballpark for you to think about for Q1 2014.
However as you think about first quarter profit you may be looking back to the first quarter of 2013 as a reference point.
And if you do theres one fairly significant item you need to consider and thats that last year we had an $87 million favorable tax item in the first quarter and that was related to the research and development tax credit that was retroactively extended in 2013 for 2012.
And that certainly wont be in the first quarter of 2014.
So thats the outlook and were ready to move on to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Your backlog declined to $18 billion in Q4.
It was $19.1 billion in Q3 and its down $2.2 billion in the year.
Yet youre guiding to 5% increase in power systems and you did mention in the release that some of the backlog decline was in power systems.
So can you talk about the conviction of your forecast here especially you do have some decent emerging market exposure in this business.
Where is the growth coming from in power systems and why? Its probably worth noting that for construction we still had a headwind in the fourth quarter on dealer inventory.
Certainly not as much as it was in the fourth quarter or year ago but the improvement in the fourth quarter if we would have had flat dealer inventory would have been a little bit more.
On power systems were not looking for a big increase next year.
Were in the ballpark of about 5%.
And I would tell you that its not any one sector.
If you look at whats in power systems youve got industrial youve got oil and gas [unintelligible] and turbines.
Youve got electric power youve got marine youve got rail.
And we dont really have any one of those sectors that up a lot.
In fact probably one of the smallest which is marine in the transportation piece its probably a little bit stronger than the rest but I wouldnt really call that out too much.
Theyre all kind of in the same ballpark.
You asked about conviction and backlog when we do our outlook we try to give you our best guess at what we see in our backlog what were hearing from customers what we think is going to happen in the economy.
And we try to put that together and do our best shot.
So I would say its an outlook so its not a sure thing but Id say were as confident as we usually are in an outlook.
Just shifting gears in [unintelligible] you said that you were not expecting a significant inventory changes at the company level.
But it still looks like if Im doing the math right that you lowered company inventories by about $700 million in the quarter.
Was this mostly in resource industries and thats why your margins were so weak there? And how do you get conviction that these kinds of declines are behind you when you kind of had similar issues all year with company inventory destocks? Id say one thing is our sales in the fourth quarter were higher than we thought and the change in dealer inventory was about the same as we expected.
And with production schedules relatively not changing a lot in the short term some of that came from inventory.
And Ill tell you what gives us a little bit of conviction that its not going to go down as much as last year is essentially the amount of our inventory that is finished goods.
Weve got the PDCs for example.
And a year ago we had a lot of inventory in the PDCs.
And it has come down substantially.
I dont have the numbers in front of me but my recollection is that its down more than half.
So I think that we expected that to happen this year.
You know there will be seasonal fluctuations but by and large I just dont think theres the likelihood that that finished inventory would come down as much as it did in 2013.
Our next question today is coming from Ross Gilardi.
Just first on mining can you talk a bit more about what happened to both OE and aftermarket orders from Q3 to Q4? And do you need a major pickup in orders in the second half of 14 to deliver minus 10% for the year on the top line? Im going to pull aftermarket out of this because for us aftermarket is kind of a daily thing.
Our order board if you will is about 24 hours.
So customers order we fulfill and send.
So sales are probably a better indicator of the future than what happened on the last day of the year.
So I think if you look at order rates for new equipment they have remained very very low.
Thats despite mine production.
Our customers theyve actually had pretty decent years.
Mine production has been up and we think it will be up again overall in 2014.
Despite that theyre not ordering much.
And we havent really seen much of a pickup.
Certainly order rates for resource industries were a little better in the fourth quarter than they were in the fourth quarter of the prior year but thats not saying much.
And so I think to answer your question we do need some improvement in order rates to be at minus 10 but I wouldnt describe it as anything like robust or good or like 2012.
But yeah some improvement.
Maybe its time for me to just add a comment on mining here in general.
The interesting thing with our mining customers and I have met in the last 60 to 90 days with several of my counterpart CEOs at the mining customers and all of our mining team has been with all of our alliance customers certainly over the last 60 to 90 days in some way or another.
The feedback is fairly consistent and its not illogical at all.
Their mining production continues.
They are pulling ores out of the ground at faster and faster rates.
They are just doing what we did frankly in 13 and thats pull our horns in pull their horns in with capex.
We see that again in 14.
But what they all have cautioned us on is that at some point in the future because were extending cycles duty cycles because weve cut back on new acquisitions and even some parts in some cases be ready for us at some point in the future.
None of them can predict when that is and I cant either.
but this is sort of typical with what we hear through these deep cycles.
When its over it tends to come back fairly quickly.
Im not making that prediction here today.
I hope its in 2014.
I know it will happen in 2014 or 2015 but thats kind of the quandary were in as well trying to judge from our customers when they feel comfortable kicking back in with new purchases.
Now capex is going down with miners in 2014 and youve all seen the numbers.
We watch that too.
A big part of capex in mining is not around mobile equipment.
So when that turns Im convinced well see not as Mike said a 2012 style ordering and I hope we dont but we should see a fairly prominent turn when it happens.
And as Mike said we should see something in 14 to make our forecast but its out there we just dont know when.
And I cant provide any more clarity than that.
Thats the feedback we get from our customers.
And then just my follow up question on construction equipment how did you get such a dramatic improvement from Q3 to Q4 in EBIT on essentially a $300 million sequential increase in revenues? And then more importantly do you think that $500 million of quarterly EBIT for construction is a sustainable run rate into 14 particularly as you mentioned with some lingering price pressure in the business? For construction Ill say a couple of things.
They had pretty good incrementals from third to fourth quarter.
And there are a couple of things going on in there.
Their pricing was a little bit better in the fourth quarter.
They had more of this big order from Brazil in the third quarter that kind of dampened price realization a little bit.
Again sales were up.
They actually did a great job on costs in the fourth quarter and the impact on absorption of inventory decline for them was not a big deal in the fourth quarter.
There was a little more of that in the third quarter.
But no doubt about it they had a pretty good quarter.
In terms of going forward Im going to try not to give any specific guidance on profit by segment but they were around 10% in the fourth quarter and thats probably in the ballpark of you know were not looking for a big decline.
They were hurt this year by inventory declines and we dont see that happening in 2014.
So their margins in 2014 ought to be better.
Our next question today is coming from Jamie Cook.
One Doug just philosophically how should we think about the message youre trying to send here with the share repurchase? Your views changed quite dramatically since you first became CEO.
So should we think about the $10 billion over five year like $2 billion a year? Would it be more front-end loaded? Would you look to be more opportunistic than the $1.7 billion you already talked about? And then my second question Mike as it relates to guidance you gave some color on the first quarter.
I guess outside of that is there anything unusual we should think about as we think about the progression of earnings throughout the year? Anything not in line with your typical seasonality? Just given we have restructuring benefits that are going to hit Im not sure how that happened in terms of your saying youre expecting mining orders to pick up? Im just trying to make sure we have the quarters correct.
Ill take the second part of that on the guidance.
Of the $200 million ongoing benefit that we kind of expected for this year a lot of that is based on the things that we did in 2013.
So those kind of things are in place the big reductions in people that we had.
So I think that $200 million I probably wouldnt divide it by four because we are doing more in 2014.
But you know I would say if you divided it by four and then favored the second half of the year a little bit more than the first half thats probably reasonable.
Probably the biggest issue on timing that were going to have during the year is when the actual restructuring charges for 14 hit.
I mentioned in the preamble that we need to have the Belgian government improve our program.
And so until that happens we wont be booking the charges for Gosselies.
So that needs to happen.
Outside of that I dont know of any real big items.
I do think that the first quarter for example will have more negative sales mix likely than the second half a little bit.
The first quarter of last year mining was still quite a bit higher than it is right now.
So I kind of was talking about the first quarter sales being relatively flat but thats with mining being down a bit and construction being up.
Thanks for a thoughtful question on our buyback and cash.
Let me give you a fairly broad answer to that and I hope complete.
I have changed my position since I became CEO.
Youll recall when that announcement was made it was the end of 2009.
Our debt to cap was way over 50% at that time.
We struggled to be sure we kept our credit rating and we vowed not to cut the dividend at that time and both of those came true.
But as we look forward we all agreed that we had to have a strong balance sheet.
A cycle like we saw in 09 and now another mining cycle like we saw in 13 really puts pressure on our balance sheet and we decided weve got to have a rock solid balance sheet which we do today.
Youll notice at the end of the year it dropped below 30% debt to cap.
If you take our cash into consideration of about $6 billion at the end of the year it was down 16% to 17%.
And in my definition thats a pretty solid balance sheet.
So we accomplished that.
The second thing that we needed to do in the early days of me being CEO was to build up our capacity.
We struggled with capacity we did not have adequate capacity in the upturn of the 2000s.
We gave up market share around the world.
And our business model purely runs on field population which allows our dealers to do what they do in a downturn better than anybody else but by servicing the field population thats out there.
We accomplished that one.
Weve got capacity in place today obviously far above $55 billion.
We did $66 billion in 2012 so somewhere north of that we have operating capacity today.
Were capacitized just right.
Our capex has come down substantially as a result of that.
So I think where were positioned today going forward is significantly different than where weve been for a while and as a result seeing cash build up on the balance sheet is not healthy.
Thats one of the reasons when we had strong cash last year the two quarters we announced buyback we spent $2 billion.
As we announced today well spend $1.7 billion more this quarter which will take full advantage of our 2007 buyback program.
And we announced another $10 billion today of course over the next five years or so.
Im not going to make any prediction on when were going to do that but as long as we see fairly stable and consistent cash flow which I expect we would as long as we keep our debt-to-cap in the low 30s that allows us to acquire if we choose to do so and thats another question thats kind of embedded in yours we do not have anything at all big on the horizon.
Id say wed be back in the mode we have been for many years a number of acquisitions possible all relatively small in size.
In fact we hold a placeholder every year of about $1 billion for acquisitions.
Sometimes we go that high sometimes we dont.
But we will be looking for acquisition opportunities I would say particularly around power systems.
Thats a great business for us its very stable obviously.
Theres some places to expand.
Weve got lots of opportunity around the world so that might be a place again in a smaller way not a huge way that we might do it.
And so Id say that if we get lucky that every year we buy a little bit back.
But Ill make no forecast on that.
We have cash.
Well probably use it.
If we dont well probably wait.
And thats kind of how Id look at all of that.
Great question thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Raso.
Regarding resource industries if you add back the restructuring in the fourth quarter the margin was about 7%.
Can you give us some help on how youre thinking about the margins for RI if the revenue as you said earlier would stay around the same level that we saw in the fourth quarter? I would say that fourth quarter usually has a little higher cost levels than the rest of the year.
And with sales for resource industries kind of coming down to this $3 billion level it has a little bit bigger impact on margin.
So they had a little more of an inventory decline.
That hurt in the fourth quarter.
They had costs that were up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So that was a little negative from the third quarter.
And as you mentioned the restructuring charges that they had in the fourth quarter.
In terms of going forward at this volume level if you were to take the sort of average margin for the year its probably not far off of what youd think for next year.
There will be puts and takes though.
Theyve done a lot of work on cost reduction.
So that would be a positive.
They would like to spend a little bit more to drive synergy benefits and spend a little more on R&amp;D.
So that will go the other way.
But I think by and large their margins from 2013 are not significantly out of line at this kind of sales level.
Its a little tricky though.
If you think construction margins can be 10% roughly in 14 that implies a incremental margin for CI of 65% next year.
That seems aggressive.
But then if you really think RI can do margins of 11 to 14 it implies power systems margins are down to 13 next year after being 15.
So the maths not squaring up.
Im not trying to give you specific numbers.
I didnt say that construction would be 10.
I just said I think it will be probably closer to that than the 5% to 6% that they had earlier in the year.
I think also one of the things that you need to remember kind of year over year too is there are other things that are maybe not in the segments.
We had pretty substantial negative below operating profit currency losses in 2013 that were not expecting for 2014.
So I dont think from an operating profit standpoint there will be major changes but Im not suggesting it will be exactly the same in each segment as it was in the fourth quarter.
How about just qualitatively then? Power systems how do you think their margins off of the 15.4 you reported for 2013? Again I dont think it will be substantially different.
Again Im not trying to do a forecast by segment.
But probably not substantially different.
It was a great quarter.
I dont want to pick on the quarter but if you were to take the year I dont think their profit is going to be dramatically different year over year.
And lastly for ConExpo any framework we should be thinking about going into a meeting like this? Historically youve spoken of long term targets before in settings like this.
Can you give us a little framework for this year? Yeah I think generically what well talk about is our strategy update.
Weve been working on that for the last several months of 2013.
So well spend time updating you on the changes that we made to the strategy and well talk a little bit about each of the major segments.
And it will be kind of a longer term view what we expect for the future.
But coming out of such a tough year in 2013 I remember this back in 2009 when we had a similar meeting we kind of gave specific number targets and it was tough to get anybody to think the business could be that big or that good.
So I think what youll probably hear from us at ConExpo is more around strategy business conditions and the things that we expect to do going forward.
It probably wont be so much a heres a forecast for a particular year.
Thats right and a couple of things.
Well talk about how our business has changed since [unintelligible] and how we see it kind of to use your word qualitatively going forward.
But one other thing Id ask all of you to do while youre out there those of you who are attending.
Go down on the floor and look at our product offering.
Youll be seeing a couple of things that you havent seen from us before.
Number one fuel economy.
Frankly we have struggled in the past to get some of our competition on fuel economy.
That period is over.
Our tier four interim and final machines that youll see out there are in almost every case best in class and best in class by quite a margin.
So Id really like you to spend time with our people on the floor.
Secondly equipment technology.
Condition monitoring job site controls everything around the electronics.
Well operate a live dealer control room there.
Its [unintelligible] but it would look like a control room like we have all over the world today monitoring our machines and what we can offer customers.
And those two are very different than what weve talked about in the past.
And then our meeting I think youll enjoy kind of a little look back at how weve changed the company and where were going as Mike said between here and the next few years out.
And Doug if you can help us at ConExpo or even right now the strategy comment reminded me of it appears that the majority of your dealers in China have dropped the SEM brand.
You still have the original SEM dealers selling.
Thats probably why youre still doing okay in China.
But SEM obviously been lagging the industry data I guess in part because the traditional CAT dealers the majority have dropped it.
And thinking of SEM as maybe a lower cost solution cost structure around the world do you care to maybe comment a little bit on that SEM decision by the CAT dealers how it makes you rethink your kind of lower value price point strategy? Yeah and Ill make sure that Ed addresses that at ConExpo.
But generally we encourage that change from here.
The market is huge over there for excavators and the things that CAT brand does and weve decided over the last year that thats really where we want them to focus.
We went kind of back to a strategy of SEM brand for SEM products inside and outside although we still have quite a few dealers outside of China representing SEM.
That has worked well for us.
Well concentrate on that as a brand.
It is a value brand and of course weve been upgrading that technology a little bit within the value offering against SEMs competitors.
So we think were in a better position with that going forward and again that will be a relatively small play in the scheme of things but its important inside China.
Our next question today is coming from Nicole DeBlase.
I just wanted to ask a question on material costs.
I think you guys noted in the 2014 outlook of the release that you expect material costs to be favorable in 14.
But youre also looking for an improving economic environment and usually that causes commodity prices to increase.
So Im just curious what youre expecting for material costs and why you expect a decline.
We didnt actually put it in the economic part of the release but generally speaking I would say for mined commodities like copper for example were expecting commodity prices for 14 to be by and large around the 2013 average.
So were not likely to get big increases or decreases in commodity prices at least thats our view.
And so for material costs you kind of have to look a little bit at how things have trended for the year.
Weve gotten kind of better and better as weve gone through the year.
Were exiting the year 2013 at a lower level than where we came into the year.
So even if we dont get any other cost reductions at all we have a bit of a carryover benefit that comes from the prior year.
So that should be positive.
And in addition to that most of what we buy is not commodities believe it or not.
Its components that have a lot of value added in it.
And based on what weve negotiated with suppliers the changes that weve made were looking for overall material costs to be lower.
And again the bulk of what we buy is not commodities it includes somebody elses value added.
And so a combination of reductions there and what were coming out of 13 with already give us pretty good confidence on the material costs for 14.
And I may just add quickly you know coming out of the strategy with Doug a big part of it was supplier collaboration and the idea that we would get to know our suppliers as well as we know our dealers.
And we spent a significant amount of time on that coming out of the strategy.
So what we see in terms of our material cost reduction is really a benefit of coming out with stronger supplier collaboration.
Their resources their expertise combined with ours is producing a lot better decisions for us and a big piece of that reduction.
And then just on construction with respect to pricing I saw in the release that you guys called out that there is some pricing degradation or challenges in the North American market too which I think was isolated to Europe before.
So if you could just provide us with an update on what youre seeing in the competitive environment in North America that would be helpful.
I think overall for construction theres not really been anywhere where weve had a lot of strength.
I think its been a tough environment around the world North America included.
We have had some issues here and there where we came out with tier four products in North America before some of our competitors.
Some of our competitors had credits that they were using to sell tier three products over a longer period of time.
So as that expires as Id say everybody gets on a more equal footing with regard to tier four I think that will probably help us a little bit in North America because its been a little bit of a drag.
Our next question today is going to come from Alex Potter.
I had a question on China in general.
Theres been this downtick in PMI obviously bearishness around emerging markets that has surfaced here just over the last week or so.
But your commentary on China seemed at least relatively upbeat.
Asia Pacific construction business is up really nicely in Q4.
Power gen seemed to be holding up okay sequentially.
So basically Im just trying to see if youve seen anything recently to substantiate these initial signs of weakness in China.
The market reaction has really occurred over the past week or 10 days or so.
I think in our business its been pretty positive.
Weve seen not just our sales but kind of the overall construction equipment group sales in the industry ticking up year over year over the past few months.
And we saw that again in December.
So I think what weve seen has been pretty good.
Weve done better than the market there as well.
Our sales in China were up more than 20% this year.
They were up in the quarter.
So you know its not been a big negative for us.
Now the flipside of that is were not looking for improvements in overall GDP for China.
Were more expecting 2014 to be another year like 2013 like 2012.
You know in that sort of 7.5%-ish range.
So thats what were seeing in China anyway.
Let me add a little bit on China.
We are watching it very very closely from a couple of aspects.
Obviously liquidity in the banking system and we keep a close eye on that as well as their reform efforts.
And we have been laser focused on being a leader in China and thats again around building field population.
So we have seen our market share go up our field population go up and our business go up as a result.
That is not to say China is not without lots of caution which we are very much aware of and we watch that every day.
But at the same time we have to have our dealers with a field population they can work on when times are bad or good.
So thats really our focus is that business model inside China.
Last question here.
I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on power systems maybe just qualitatively.
Which segments looking into 2014 do you expect to perform better perform worse and some of the [unintelligible] or reasoning behind that.
I think with the exception of industrial which has had just a really really big up year this year and is going to happen really tough comps as a result I think were essentially looking year over year 14 versus 13 no really outliers.
We have power systems overall up we think about 5%.
And you know for the big kind of subsectors its not going to veer far off that.
So with the exception of maybe marine might be a little bit better industrial might be a little bit worse the rest of them oil and gas overall electric power overall rail overall kind of up a little.
Just a qualitative comment about power systems.
Really sparkled in a tough year like 2013.
And if you look back over the years power systems has done that.
Because theres a fairly wide array of businesses in there.
Take our rail business between progress rail and EMD EMD in its third year of ownership is just getting it done.
Weve seen a lot of cost reduction in locomotives weve seen a lot of work around the aftermarket kind of building up the Caterpillar DNA into locomotives.
And were very very happy with that acquisition and our current market position.
Electric power has been very anemic as you all know but within that is our acquisition of MWM in Germany which brings us a natural gas and gas in any form offering.
Were building that out expanding through CAT theaters.
Long term thats going to be a very good piece of business for us.
And again kind of countercyclical to everything else in the power systems business.
Our industrial business which is really the reciprocating engines that we sell to everybody from ag to lift trucks to other construction equipment makers saw an increase in 2013 to make up for some of the shortfalls in the other segments.
So within that power systems business theres a ray of diversity.
And then finally the turbine business which has just been fantastic for us really the whole time weve owned it going back to the mid-80s.
But with the oil and gas boom the fracking boom around this country and elsewhere that has been a real stellar performer the last few years and I expect it to continue.
And then just an anecdote.
I just returned from the Eagle Ford area actually last week and I had my ears to the ground on what theyre seeing down there.
And actually our dealers there are a bit more optimistic than I expected.
Im not going to say wildly at all but theres still activity going on and they feel like 14 could be another solid year.
So thats anecdotal but certainly a positive thing at this point in time.
But our power systems business is one that were very happy with and again within that its kind of a complete and various array of businesses in itself.
Our next question today is from Robert Wertheimer.
I wonder if I could follow up on what Doug was just mentioning.
Theres a little bit of consternation in the market with some of the big oil majors talking about maybe declining returns on some of the expensive capex maybe cutting back and maybe some of the other segments in oil and gas being strong.
Are you able to delineate your exposure to the big international oil companies? And maybe you could just say is [Solar] set to have another record year? Yeah Id say at this point in time as Mike said also our power systems in 14 ought to look a lot like it did in 13.
Were hopeful for a very modest increase but thats after a lot of gives and takes across that business.
As you all know the fracking business has changed the gas pipeline and gas compression business immensely in this country.
And theres still a lot of buildout on getting that gas out of the ground and thats what I think were seeing primarily around solar.
The big nationals around the world certainly are questioning where theyre going and we see that.
Ive got to believe the opening in Mexico when that starts because I do think they will pull that off is going to change the dynamics completely again.
And that could be some upside although I dont know how much of that wed see in 14.
It ought to start.
So really I think you almost have to look at it country by country and see where that goes.
But were not wildly optimistic about it nor are we that pessimistic for 14.
I have been surprised with gas here the last month or so going above $5.
I would not have predicted that at all but its quite interesting.
I dont know what that will do but I think its probably a fairly short term phenomenon based on the cold weather.
And I dont know if youre willing to answer this or not and you have given a decent amount of mining information but there are concerns that theres a couple more years of capex decline out there and obviously your sales have already maybe front loaded some of that decline having fallen so far.
Are you willing to say how far your unit deliveries in mining have fallen from peak in 12 to what your outlook is in 14? Its more than 50% Im sure.
Its probably more than 60%.
Maybe its more than 70%.
I dont know.
Maybe you can help out? Ill help you maybe a little bit Rob.
We have a varied business you know.
Its everything from drag lines to drills to big trucks to shovels.
The largest selling product category for us is large mining trucks.
And if you look at large mining trucks and you look at what weve shipped this year which would be relatively lined up with what our sales are were down probably close to 60% in 13 versus the peak.
And if you look at what we kind of have baked into 2014 youre looking at something like 75% below the 2013 peak for our shipments.
When we look at our resource industry business you know well give you a forecast which is our best estimate in terms of that particular time.
But from an operational standpoint we clearly understand theres risk.
We knew there was risk in 13 if you were in the resource industry business.
And in that business unit they started taking action in the first quarter.
The companies joined in and we really focused on structural cost reduction.
And with that we were able to deliver the $1.2 billion of cost reduction.
And Ill tell you that were bullish in mining in the longer term.
Mike talked about our orders need to increase for the 10% down scenario.
And well walk into the first quarter in a cautious standpoint and well remains focused on cost reduction around here.
But clearly longer term we see that as a great business for us.
But we remain cautious and we remain focused on the structural cost reduction in 14.
Okay with that we are just past the top of the hour and well sign off.
Thank you very much for joining us today and we look forward to seeing many of you at ConExpo in March.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thanks Kate and good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President Strategic Services.
And on the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and our Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
Any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without our expressed written consent is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we'll be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website and it'll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A which is Risk Factors of our Form 10-K that we filed with the SEC in February of 2014 and it's also in the forward-looking statements language in today's release.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can also be found in today's release which has also been posted on our website at caterpillar.com.
Now before I get into the details I should also mention that we made organizational changes that went into effect at the start of 2014; responsibility for paving forestry industrial and waste and tunnel boring products moved from Resource Industries and you'll find it in the financial release today in our all other operating segments line.
In addition responsibility for some work tools was moved from Resource Industries to Construction Industries and the responsibility for administration of 3 wholly owned dealers in Japan moved from Construction Industries and it's also in the all other operating segment in today's release.
We also reclassified restructuring costs for 2013.
We moved it from segment profit to corporate items and we did that to be consistent with how we're presenting 2014.
The most significant impact of these changes on our reportable segments was for Resource Industries.
And to put that in context for the full year of 2013 that reorganization moved about $1.5 billion of sales from Resource Industries but it had very little impact on profit for Resource Industries.
In fact only about $10 million for the full year.
Now after these changes the vast majority of Resource Industries sales are related to mining and quarry and aggregates.
We put a Q&amp;A on this morning's release on the reorg.
It's Q&amp;A #7 on Page 17 and it includes a quarterly breakdown of the impact for Resource Industries.
Now we also changed the name of our Power Systems segment to Energy &amp; Transportation.
We did that to better reflect what the segment actually does and we made the changes before our Analyst Meeting at CONEXPO last March.
But if you missed it Power Systems is now Energy &amp; Transportation.
Okay let's get into first quarter results.
At $13.2 billion sales and revenues were flat with the first quarter of 2013 and were pretty close to what we expected.
Profit was $1.61 a share excluding restructuring costs and $1.44 including restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs were $149 million or about $0.17 a share.
Most of the $149 million was related to the previously announced restructuring of our Gosselies Belgium manufacturing facility.
Now to better compare results to the first quarter of 2013 the remainder of my discussion on the quarter will be excluding restructuring charges.
The profit of $1.61 excluding restructuring was $0.29 a share higher than the first quarter of 2013.
While in the aggregate sales were unchanged from last year if you look at our 3 large segments there were very different stories and I'll cover each one.
The most positive was Construction Industries.
And it was up 20% from the first quarter of last year.
And in fact this quarter it was our largest segment by sales which were over $5 billion and up more than $800 million from first quarter last year.
They were up about 36% in North America 20% in Europe Africa Middle East up about 10% in Asia Pacific and were almost flat in Latin America.
Now to understand what happened in Construction Industries sales you do need to consider dealer inventory.
It was a big part of why sales were relatively weak last year.
Normally during the first quarter of each year dealers buy more from us than they deliver to customers and they build inventory for the second quarter we call it the selling season and that means that for a dealer deliveries to end-users the second quarter is usually the highest quarter of the year.
Now that inventory build didn't happen for Construction last year.
And that's because dealers ended 2012 with sufficient inventory of construction equipment and their inventories during the first quarter remained pretty flat a year ago.
This year that wasn't the case and dealers reverted to the more usual seasonal pattern and built inventory in the first quarter for sale in the second quarter selling season.
Now in addition to the dealer inventory impact end-user demand also increased versus the first quarter of last year.
And you may have seen that in our release of dealer statistics yesterday where dealer deliveries for the first 3 months of 2014 were up 9% for Construction Industries.
Bottom line for Construction Industries demand's better for construction and we believe dealer inventories are in pretty good shape relative to seasonal needs.
Okay that's Construction.
For Energy &amp; Transportation sales were up about 8% in the quarter.
Remember Energy &amp; Transportation is made up of several sales that serve several industries: oil and gas power generation transportation and industrial.
And oil and gas power gen and industrial were all up a bit more than the 8% average that Energy &amp; Transportation was up as a whole.
Transportation related sales were about flat versus the first quarter last year.
Energy &amp; Transportation has been a stable performer over the past year and that certainly continued in the first quarter.
Let's move on to Resource Industries which again is principally mining.
That's a different story.
Sales were down 37% from the first quarter of 2013 and most of the decline was end-user demand which again you can see in the retail statistics that we released yesterday where deliveries of new equipment were down 46% in the first quarter versus the same period a year ago.
The decline we're seeing in the mining industry began in the mid-2012 and it's continued.
And the business declined throughout last year.
And because of that the first quarter of 2013 was last year's highest sales for Resource Industries and it came down from there.
So that's making it a particularly tough sales comparison for us Q1 to Q1.
For Resource Industries order rates for new equipment have remained weak in the first quarter and substantially below the peaks of 2012.
That's the bad news.
The good news is that we were close to an equilibrium of order rates in sales in the first quarter.
And as a result the order backlog for Resource Industries was fairly close to being flat with year end 2013.
So in summary on sales Construction Industries up Energy &amp; Transportation up and Resource Industries down quite a bit.
Sales overall as a result flat.
But while sales were flat profit was up.
In general it was a pretty good story across each of our 3 large segments.
And I think because of that it make sense to talk about profit this quarter by segment.
And I'll start with Construction Industries which had a great quarter with operating profit up $460 million on a sales increase of $845 million.
And I think there are 3 things to cover with Construction Industries.
One you have to go back to last year think about the first quarter of last year.
Our sales and production were relatively low.
And partly that's because we and our dealers started 2013 with probably too much inventory.
And in the first quarter of last year most of the factories that we have that make construction equipment were at least partially idled.
This year we were producing more.
And with our factories producing more we were doing it more efficiently.
Related to that inventory reductions from last year resulted in negative inventory absorption impacts on profit and this year that was much much less.
Second thing about Resource -- or I'm sorry Construction Industries profit we've continued to focus on managing costs and we were able to hold our period costs.
Those are costs that are relatively fixed.
We've held them flat with last year despite a pretty significant increase in production volume.
And the third thing about Construction profit was currency.
And currency impacts versus a year ago were positive for us and mostly related to the yen.
And remember we are a net yen exporter.
We're a Japanese manufacturer.
So all in all profit for Construction Industries in the first quarter was the best since the second quarter of 2012.
Okay let's move onto Energy &amp; Transportation which had another good quarter with operating profit rising $236 million on a sales increase of $371 million.
And that resulted in operating profit as a percent of sales being up from the first quarter of last year.
Now the increase in our profit dollars was primarily due to higher sales volume lower manufacturing costs and price realization for Energy &amp; Transportation was slightly favorable.
Now when you think about Energy &amp; Transportation and profit over the course of 2013 it's probably worth noting that the first quarter last year was the weakest profit quarter of 2013 and Energy &amp; Transportation margins improved over the last 3 quarters of the year.
And the operating margin rate in the first quarter of '14 this quarter was reasonably in line with the last 3 quarters of 2013.
Thankfully it's a diverse business.
It's been a consistent performer over the past year and that includes this quarter.
Let's turn to our Resource Industries.
Operating profit for Resource Industries again that's predominantly mining was down substantially versus the first quarter.
Operating profit declined $310 million on a sales decline of $1.2 billion.
That's the bad news.
The good news is the decremental margin rate that's the change in margin divided by the change in sales was a mere 25%.
And that's a demonstration in our view of good cost management in a business with a very variable margin rate that are much higher than 25%.
Resource Industries has made substantial progress on reducing costs as demand has declined.
Operating margin as a percent of sales is now mid-single digits.
But for a capital-intensive business where demand has been hit this hard we think that's pretty good performance.
It's a business where sales of its most significant product mining trucks are expected to be down this year about 80% from the peak year of 2012.
To be even profitable in an environment like this demonstrates the success they've had in managing costs.
Okay that's operating profit.
Let's turn to the outlook for 2014.
Now in our year end financial release from January we provided an outlook for 2014 sales and profit.
We said we expected sales and revenues to be similar to 2013 at about $56 billion and we put that in a range of plus or minus 5%.
We said then that there were encouraging signs in the world economy and that we were expecting sales improvements in Construction Industries and Energy &amp; Transportation.
And that's still the case.
Our outlook in January expected construction and Energy &amp; Transportation to be up about 5% and that's still the case for Energy &amp; Transportation.
However we increased our view of Construction from up 5% to up 10%.
However in our original outlook we expected sales to be down in our Resource Industries segment by about 10%.
In this outlook we've reduced that forecast and now expect it to be down about 20% from 2013.
Despite the prospects for a better year in the world economy and continued strong production at mines mining orders for new equipment haven't really improved and remain at pretty low levels.
Order rates are a fraction of where they were in 2011 and during the first half of 2012 and are substantially below where we believe the long term sustainable level is.
Our outlook from January expected mining orders for 2014 to remain low but be modestly better than the second half of 2013.
So far this year that hasn't happened.
And based on where we are today even if we started to see some improvement in orders it likely wouldn't be soon enough to have much impact on 2014.
And that's why we lowered the Resource Industries outlook today.
That's the bad news.
The good news is new mining equipment sales in our outlook are low enough that we believe the downside risk for 2014 in our outlook related to Resource Industries is reasonably limited.
That doesn't mean that it couldn't go down further.
That just means that the sales of new equipment for mining are so low in the outlook that even if there is no improvement in order rates at all the downside in the scheme of things is limited.
So overall our outlook for sales and revenues remain $56 billion in a range of plus or minus 5%.
There's certainly potential it could be higher than $56 billion if economic activity around the world accelerates or if mining orders increased meaningfully in the short term.
But there's also plenty of downside risk that could cause it to be below $56 billion.
A couple of examples include geopolitical.
While we're hopeful that the situation in Russia and the Ukraine will be resolved if it does get worse and has an impact on business confidence world trade and world growth it could certainly be a negative for us.
And we're closely watching growth rates in China.
We had a good first quarter in China.
In fact company sales were up 30%.
But we're concerned that if economic growth in China slows enough it could have an impact on our business.
Those are 2 good reasons why we have a 5% plus/minus range around our $56 billion sales outlook.
Now in terms of the profit outlook.
On the strength of our great first quarter results we raised our full year operating profit by $0.25 a share.
Excluding restructuring costs our profit outlook moved from $5.85 to $6.10.
And with restructuring charges our costs had moved from $5.30 to $5.55 a share.
Now our overall expectations for our restructuring costs in 2014 remains at about $400 million to $500 million with the midpoint impact on profit per share of about $0.17.
Okay.
To help you think about the rest of the year there's one more thing I'd like to cover in the outlook and that's how we think the rest of the year could shake out by quarter.
Of the 3 remaining quarters of 2014 of course that's Q2 Q3 Q4 we would expect of those 3 the fourth quarter will be the highest for sales and profit.
We think the third quarter will likely be the weakest and that the second quarter will be slightly below the average of Q2 Q3 and Q4 in terms of sales and profit.
I hope that helps you calibrate your expectations for 2014.
One last point before we move to the Q&amp;A.
We had a good quarter for operating cash flow.
We were up from $1.1 billion in the first quarter of last year to $1.9 billion in the first quarter of this year.
Our balance sheet remain strong with a debt-to-capital ratio for Machinery and Energy &amp; Transportation of near 30%.
And during the first quarter we repurchased approximately $1.7 billion of stock.
And over the last 4 quarters we've repurchased about $3.7 billion.
In January the board authorized a new 5-year program to repurchase an additional $10 billion in stock.
And while we've not announced additional repurchase for this year as we move through 2014 we'll certainly continue to review our options for cash deployment.
So that's our rundown of the quarter and the outlook.
With that we're ready to move on to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Ted Grace.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Susquehanna.
I was hoping Mike maybe you could walk through specific to Construction Industries how production kind of progressed through 1Q and how you would encourage us to think about production in Construction Industries in the second quarter.
I realized you gave that quarterly guidance and that in itself is helpful on a consolidated basis but could you maybe just help us understand how production and cost absorption worked through 1Q and how you would encourage us to think about 2Q? Yes.
I'll -- we actually stretched it a little far farther than we normally do on guidance for the rest of the year so I'm going to be a little hesitant on breaking it out even further.
But what I can tell you is this.
If you go -- if you just think about how it's changed over the course of the past year as we came into 2013 a year ago we were cutting our inventory our PDC finished inventory.
And dealers you would normally add inventory in the first quarter and they didn't do that.
So our production a year ago was pretty low for Construction.
And if you look at the first quarter of this year dealers built inventory as this kind of a normal pattern.
And as a result of that and us not making as substantial reductions to PDC inventory our production went up a lot.
Our production was up more in the first quarter than sales.
I think if you look forward for the rest of the year you can kind of do the math on this a little bit based on us saying sales up 10% for Construction over the course of the year.
The rest of the year for Construction Industries sales will be probably not massively different than the first quarter.
So probably not wide variations in production because the sales numbers the first quarter was not far off being 1/4 of the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The second thing I was hoping to ask is on the restructuring side just an update on where things stand in Europe specific to Belgium.
And then in the press release it seemed like that you may have cited more potential restructuring benefits in the year.
I was wondering if you could just elaborate on that.
We certainly weren't trying to signal more restructuring benefits in the year.
I think Gosselies' restructuring is coming along about as we expected.
We got approval in the first quarter from the local officials.
I was expecting maybe a question on why the entire $300 million that we were expecting for the year wasn't in the first quarter and that's because we'll be recognizing the expense related to that as the -- as we get specifics on the individuals that have accepted the offer.
So that will probably come in through the course of the year.
I would say if you look at all the restructuring activity that we have done over the course of the past year one of the places you can see it is actually in employment.
If you think about this our sales in the first quarter of this year were about the same as the first quarter of last year.
And if you look at the employment schedule in our quarterly release today on flat sales our employment levels are down I think 8 000 to 9 000 people.
And I think that's where you can see the impact of not just lower volume but also some of the restructuring activities we've taken.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Volkmann.
Research Division</strong> It's Jefferies.
And I have a question about the revision in your outlook.
And I guess I'm wondering maybe 2 parts on the Construction business.
What and where are you seeing the improvement that gives you the visibility on the 5% improvement on the top line that you talked about Mike? And then on the Resource side I'm curious you talked about the OE being pretty limited at this point but can you just discuss a little bit about what you're seeing on the aftermarket side and whether that's still declining? It sounds like it is but what's the outlook there? So a couple of things.
One with Construction I think the one area geographic area that's I would say has had the most upside for us is actually North America.
And you can kind of see that I think in the retail statistics that we've provided.
It's doing pretty good.
So I'd say North America is the reason for the upside.
On Resource Industries on your comment specifically aftermarket and in our release today we did say that versus the first quarter of last year within aftermarket -- or within Resource Industries parts sales were lower than a year ago and that's true.
But they came down over the course of last year.
I mean if you look at parts sales within aftermarket -- within I'm sorry Resource Industries over the last few quarters it's been stable.
It's not down like it was from Q1.
So it fell during last year.
It's held pretty stable over the last couple of quarters.
And now we're hopeful at some point in time here it'll start to tick up.
It seems like it should.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
I guess pricing in both of those segments was a little bit weak a little bit negative should we worry about that? What's the outlook there? We're not really expecting much sale or a much price at all this year.
I mean when we came into the year we said I think less than 0.5% if memory serves me which is in the scheme of things for us pretty small.
I think that if you look at the 4 quarters of last year actually pricing levels were probably in those businesses a little better in the first quarter than they were for the rest of the year so it was a little bit of a tougher comp for us.
There's certainly pricing pressure out in the marketplace and that's why we're not expecting much for the year.
But overall our view on pricing by and large hasn't changed much from when we came into the year.
Our next question today is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Longbow Securities.
Can we talk a little bit -- when you talk about Construction Industries you sort of -- in your commentary you basically said that the rest of the year volume levels went up even radically altered from the first quarter.
Can you talk about the profitability of this sector for the rest of the year? I mean you had a very impressive first quarter for lots of reasons.
Are you -- I mean I assume you're expecting double-digit operating margin in the sector but not quite up to the first quarter level.
Is that a fair representation of what to expect for the rest of the year? Yes Eli this is Brad Halverson.
That's a good question.
One I would say that we're extremely happy with the profitability of the Construction Industries.
We had an operating margin of around 5% kind of in our core product line.
If you look back a year we finished the fourth quarter at 9.9%.
We like this business to be double digits.
We did have good mix.
Some positive things happened in the first quarter that they gave us a record return for the Construction business at 13.6%.
I would say an expectation for the rest of the year slightly above a double-digit number would be a good estimate and we think that's good profitability for where this business is at right now.
Yes.
Eli it's Doug Oberhelman here.
I would just add a comment on the pull-through objectives we've had going back a number of years of 25% on the additional $1 of revenue.
And while we did much better than that in Construction in Energy &amp; Transport this quarter I would expect that over time 25% is our objective.
So we'll have some quarters that are juicy like this one and maybe some that aren't so juicy I guess.
But overall we're after that.
And as Mike said in his comments even our Resource business on the way down held with 25%.
So I'm pretty happy with that.
But I'd steer it that way as an answer to your question.
And if it comes up better than that great but there'll be quarters when we'll be talking about the other side of that.
Yes.
And along the same line when you look at Energy &amp; Transportation with the first quarter volume up 8% and the year up 5% we're talking maybe slower top line growth but I assume that we're expecting better product mix for the rest of the year that will enhance the profitability to match last year's numbers; is that sort of the expectation that we should look at in that sector? Yes Eli there are -- that segment has -- serves a bunch of different industries that have let's say sort of different profitability characteristics.
So in any quarter that you get into you're subject to a little up and down on margin.
Based on whether the increase is oil and gas or industrial engines they have a different margin profile.
If you look at what Energy &amp; Transportation has done over the last 4 quarters the margin rate has been within a relatively tight demand.
And I don't think our view for the rest of the year would have it being dramatically up one side of the other of that.
So it's been a consistent performer.
And I think our view of the rest of the year is that it will continue to be a consistent performer.
Yes.
And one final question.
Will you talk a bit of what we should expect out of the finance company this year given the changes in the first quarter weakness in the first quarter? Yes.
Eli this is Brad Halverson.
The Financial Products division I think has continued to perform very well.
Their profit was down compared to the first quarter of last year.
But in the first quarter of 2013 we had a positive adjustment due to improved warranty improved quality.
And we have a Cat Insurance business in Cat Financial.
So we had I think it was roughly $40 million positive adjustment in the first quarter.
So their results quarter-over-quarter are slightly up their portfolio is growing slightly.
Their past dues at the end of the first quarter were I think a record in the last 10 years or so.
And so their portfolio is performing well.
I think you can expect similar to Energy &amp; Transportation pretty good stable performance out of them the rest of the year.
Our next question today is coming from Seth Weber.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's RBC.
I'm just trying to reconcile the comment about Construction on the aftermarket sales being flattish in the quarter.
I mean wouldn't -- if the demand is really improving wouldn't you expect to see an increase in aftermarket sales for the Construction business? I think aftermarket for the Construction business for any businesses usually related to activity.
It was pretty flat for the first quarter versus a year ago.
It's not as -- aftermarket is not quite as -- I don't know maybe relative to the total as significant as it might be in industries like mining.
As activity goes up as Construction spending goes up as housing starts go up you would think that would as well.
It might have something to do a little bit Seth with a particularly bad winter.
That might have put a little damper on actually work being done.
Other than that I don't know of any big reasons why it should be off that pattern.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a similar question on the Resource business.
Are you seeing -- are customers still idling equipment or bleeding off of parts inventory? Because we are starting to get the sense that some commodity production volumes are going -- are rising like U.S.
coal.
So can you give us a sense for where you think your customers stand on their parts inventory levels? And how they're -- how soon you think we could see a pickup in that business? I don't know about the inventory levels.
But again if you kind of look sequentially at what's going on over the last 3 months it's not continued to go down.
It's remained pretty stable over the last 3 quarters actually.
I think as activity goes up we would fully expect part sales to go up.
I mean there's a pretty strong relationship.
Customers can only put off maintenance or cannibalize idle equipment or idle the oldest equipment for so long before that begins to catch up with you.
And the dynamics of a business that's pretty tough on equipment that starts to come through.
So I think at some point here we would think that it would pick up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But do you get the sense that the idling is still occurring then? Yes.
I think there's definitely still some parked fleets.
It's not the same everywhere in the world but yes I think -- I won't quote a number but yes there's definitely still parked fleets.
Our next question today is coming from Jerry Revich.
Research Division</strong> It's Goldman Sachs.
Mike you had nearly a 10% SG&amp;A and R&amp;D reduction on flat sales this quarter.
Can you talk about is there something in the comparable period or is that consistent with your expectations for the year? And then the restructuring actions in Resources on the manufacturing side came over the course of last year and I'm just wondering how far along in harvesting those savings are we at the first quarter compared to the ultimate run rate? Jerry this is Mike.
I'll start this.
Now we had a very good first quarter.
Costs were lower than a year ago but I think we also were very cautious coming into the year.
We purposefully tried to slow down -- even what we have in the hopper for program spending over the course of the year we tried as much as we could to be very cautious on spending even what we planned to do for the first quarter.
And so I think that helped.
And as some of those programs that we want to do because they're the right thing for the long term but we've been cautious on in the first quarter I think there will be some increase in spending over the remainder of the year for programs like that.
That's why if you look at the profitability of the -- in our outlook for the next 3 quarters that's one of the reasons why it's down a little bit relative to Q1.
But again I'll go back to a comment that I made earlier.
This is actually a total company question.
We've taken a lot of costs out since the first quarter of last year.
And I think if you look at the employment numbers that kind of -- and particularly because this quarter was a quarter that had almost dead flat sales it really -- I think it really brings home the magnitude of the actions that we've taken to adjust the cost base to the current volume situation.
And I might add this is Brad Halverson.
We're really happy with the quality of our earnings.
We're focused on the business model.
We're growing share little price.
And we're really focused on lean deployments across the enterprise both in our factories and in the office.
And so we had increased short-term incentive pay expense in the first quarter which we're happy about going to our employees based on our performance of roughly $140 million.
So we had roughly $500 million of pure cost reduction for us.
And so with the mining business that's contributing just a little over $100 million that used to contribute $1 billion that will come back.
And where our cost structure is we're going to continue to focus on this but we're happy with where we're at.
Research Division</strong> And then can you talk about what you're seeing in Western Europe for Construction and Energy &amp; Transportation? I know you're concerned about Eastern Europe but it sounds like cement volumes are finally starting to pick up and maybe operating hours are starting to improve.
I'm wondering if you could just touch on if you're seeing a pickup in demand off of low levels in Western Europe across your businesses.
Well I was just looking at the Construction numbers this morning.
And if you look at our first quarter actually Construction in Europe was positive.
It wasn't negative.
So yes I think it's not as robust as what we're seeing in North America.
But I think it's probably little bit of a case where the economic situation there doesn't seem quite so dire.
And I think the environment for customers to do some machine replacements is probably a little bit better and we're seeing that some positive in our Construction numbers in Europe in general.
Our next question today is coming from Steven Fisher.
Research Division</strong> It's UBS.
Just trying to get a sense of the growth rate of the segments that you moved to the all other category as it compares to the core mining business.
If you didn't do the re-class would mining still have been down 20% or for the year would have been kind of more or less than that? Because I guess if the stuff you moved into all other is not quite as bad then the reduction in guidance might not be as severe.
So what we moved last year was -- last year -- for the full year anyway it was $1.5 billion.
It's the kind of product that would more closely in most cases more closely follow construction paving for example.
Forestry has a relationship say with housing construction.
So it would have been a year-over-year at least year-over-year first quarter to first quarter it would have been a little bit positive.
So it was -- it's a different profile than mining.
I haven't -- honestly I haven't looked at that level of detail in the outlook.
But it wouldn't surprise me of what you say is to some small degree true.
The difference though is that it's a smaller portion.
It was a relatively small portion of Resource Industries.
So I don't think the impact would have been that on the percent change the 10% to 20%.
I don't think it would have been massively significant to that but it probably -- it's certainly wouldn't have been down 20% it would have been likely up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to get to that minus 20% from minus 37% in Q1 in Resources are you assuming any year-over-year growth at all or just kind of significant moderations in the decline? When you say year-over-year growth I'm -- explain a little bit more Steve.
Research Division</strong> No just the -- because you have to do better than the minus 37% in the balance in the decline.
Is that just a rate that's well below the 20% or could you actually see something that's up year-over-year? Yes.
I think as we go through the year you'll see that gap narrow.
I probably wouldn't want to be so specific as to say at fourth quarter it's up or down.
But if you just think about the trajectory of last year it started out stronger.
I mean there were orders that were being produced and shipped and sales were higher.
And it declined as you went through the year.
I think the fourth quarter if memory serves me right for Resource Industries it was about 20% below the first quarter.
So I think if we get any kind of a modest improvement going through this year it'll narrow that gap.
So I would think that year-over-year gap would come down probably in every quarter.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Casey.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wells Fargo.
I just wanted to go back to the profitability for the rest of 2014 and make sure I understand the puts and takes.
Should I think about this lower margin improvement relative to what you posted in Q1 as driven really by 3 things: More difficult Energy &amp; Transport comps; fairly good-sized headwind from higher incentive comp; and then fading headcount benefit.
Are those the 3 main things? No I wouldn't say -- no I don't think so.
I don't think Energy &amp; Transportation is going to be materially different probably than the first quarter.
So what we're thinking about here Andy is that second -- or the last 9 months of the year versus the first quarter.
I think the way to think about it is we usually have seasonally low costs in the first quarter.
We would approve programs that our units can spend money on during the year.
But it usually takes a little time for that to ramp up.
So first quarter is usually light on costs fourth quarter is usually a little heavy.
So we would see program-related costs going up.
Incentive comp that you mentioned is up year-over-year but we have that in the first quarter too so I don't think -- there's not a material -- there's no difference really between the first quarter and the rest of the year for that.
Depreciation usually kind of ramps up as we go through the year.
As we put capital in place it goes up.
We have things like our annual merit plan is effective April 1 so we get a bit of a bump up in labor costs usually from Q2 on.
I think another point and Brad mentioned this earlier and that is margins in Construction Industries I think relative to the first quarter Construction Industry mix is going to probably get a little bit worse.
More of the rest of the year we would have smaller product.
We expect some rental reload to occur kind of over the course of the year more than we had in the first quarter.
First quarter was a little more excavation-focused particularly in China.
So probably a little bit of a declining mix in Construction as we go through the year.
And then for Resource Industries there are programs that we cut last year.
Things that we really want to do for the long term.
Engineering around getting our components.
And what was Bucyrus product getting all the hundreds of thousands of part numbers into our systems for aftermarket.
That all requires some spending.
We delayed it last year.
And as we go through the course of this year those are programs that we want to spend money on.
They're the right thing to do for the long term.
The rest of our business is pretty stable and we kind of need to get to it.
So I think those are the kinds of things that caused profit over the course of the last 3 months of the year to be maybe a bit below the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we go back -- thanks for the clarity but it makes me a little more cloudy in my thinking about how to get to the Q4 being the highest of the last 3 quarters.
Is there anything unusual that you're building into the -- that quarterly comment? I'm wondering if there's any...
No no.
The fourth quarter for us usually is a big sales quarter.
It's usually right up there with -- sometimes the second quarter can be higher than it.
But in general the fourth quarter is usually seasonally a pretty high quarter.
The third quarter and the first quarter are usually the weakest.
So of the last 3 the third quarter would be the weakest.
And we think the second quarter is probably close to but a little bit below the average of the 3.
We don't really have anything unique any big strange expenses.
I'm -- when I talk about these numbers by the way I'm excluding restructuring costs because the timing of that could have a different effect.
And of course that's why we pulled it out.
But no we don't have anything that off the top of my head that I can think of that's going to be odd about any quarter.
I mean it might turn out to be that way but certainly we're not planning it that way.
Our next question today is coming from Ann Duignan.
Research Division</strong> JPMorgan.
Actually my first question is for Doug if he's still in the room.
Doug it was interesting to me that you mentioned Ukraine Russia and also China as potentially headwinds.
But you didn't mention Latin America and in particular Brazil.
Are you not concerned about the macro environment in Brazil or is that something you've been planning for all year and so incrementally it's not getting any worse than you might have anticipated? I would put Brazil macroeconomic as one or macro situation as one of those we would be watching.
I would not put it in the same category as the others that I talked about: China Ukraine and maybe a couple of others in the Middle East at all.
We've got a pretty stable business across Latin America.
Brazil's got some projects that are coming in that we -- doing some things around infrastructure this year next year and the year after that ought to help that.
But the overall macro situation there is one to watch frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful the color.
And then can you -- one of you talked about -- where does Tier 4 pricing show up in your numbers? Is that in the pricing bucket or is that not included because it's separate pricing? I'm just trying to get a sense of net pricing are you giving away the Tier 4 costs and is that impacting margins or are Tier 4 prices being passed through but not incorporated into pricing? If you could just give us some color on what's going on with Tier 4 pricing and whether you're actually giving pricing? Yes.
So it's not included in our price realization bucket in our kind of a waterfall chart and release.
And it's because the content is different.
If you're going to add for example say after treatment and you're going to raise the price for that there are kind of 2 ways that you could deal with that.
You could say hey I have a price increase and have a cost increase.
We think that's kind of -- distorts what's really going on.
The content of the machine is changing it's a different machine.
So the way we deal with it is we net the content cost changes with the specific in this case Tier 4 related price changes.
And we would just show the net of the 2 in the price realization number.
I think as a generic comment I would say we're not giving away Tier 4.
I think it's been a pretty successful introduction of the price increases that have gone in for Tier 4.
Generically we're meant to cover the additional costs and reasonable margin.
And I think by and large that's happening.
Our next question today is coming from Ross Gilardi.
Research Division</strong> Bank of America.
I just had a couple of questions.
From your backlog commentary it sounds like Power Systems backlog is up fairly sharply due to locomotives.
In the rest of your press -- other parts of your press release you mentioned that well service activity is picking up.
You don't sound worried about oil and gas CapEx natural gas prices have rebounded.
Why aren't you raising your Power Systems outlook today? Well a lot of those things we had in our original outlook.
I think we were probably -- maybe in January what we were seeing in terms of quoting activity deals in place with customers our expectations haven't really changed all that much as a result of this.
So I think we were reasonably positive on that sector all along.
Research Division</strong> Got you Mike.
And then could you comment a little bit more about recent order activity in oil and gas? And maybe give some color on what your exposure is to subsea drilling which seems to be sort of the weaker spot for a lot of your peers? Yes.
I guess I would be careful of how I say this.
For our oil and gas business particularly for resets order activity has been pretty strong.
It looks like the well servicing is starting to pick back up a little bit and that's a good thing.
In terms of deep-sea drilling I would say in the scheme of our overall oil and gas business that's pretty minor.
Our next question today is coming from Mig Dobre.
Research Division</strong> Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
If we can guys going back to Brazil in Construction.
Latin American revenue was slightly down this quarter.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about dealer inventory levels in Latin America? Maybe also your view on fundamental demand through the year excluding this large government order that you got from Brazil? Yes.
Dealer inventory I think most places in the world with a few minor product exceptions is in pretty good shape.
I mean dealers worked on adjusting dealer inventory to current demand really over the past 1.5 years.
And so I don't -- I can't see any reason that looks out of line.
Now you might be able to get to a country or a dealer and maybe draw a different conclusion.
But I think by overall and by region it's not sort of out of whack with selling these.
Your comment on demand in Brazil is a little bit hard to answer because if last year related to this these large orders that we had that Doug mentioned a minute ago because we had them last year.
This year the amount related that we're going to sell related to those big orders I think is going to be a bit less than last year.
So far this year Brazil has actually been reasonably good for us.
Most of the other countries in Latin America have been down a little bit.
Brazil has kind of held up for us.
And I think this big order these large orders that we're getting from the government certainly helped that.
But we've had them in both years last year and this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a quick modeling question.
On the corporate expense line there's a lot of moving pieces there with incentive comp LIFO legal settlements last year can you give us some maybe color or guidance as to how you expect this line item to move through the year? Yes.
That's a tough one because I think the big variable for that will be the timing of the restructuring costs.
That's probably the biggest variable.
And then as you go forward if there happens to be changes if the outlook from here goes up or goes down that can have an impact on the corporate some of the corporate incentive comp.
Based on the outlook where it's at now we would think that to be pretty stable.
So probably the biggest variation going forward there is likely to be restructuring costs.
Our next question today is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Research Division</strong> It's Barclays.
So Mike your cash flow generation in the quarter was strong as you said.
Some of it was obviously net income growth but can you talk about the increased focus it seems that you have on keeping working capital down or any other changes you've made to generate more cash? And is this level of cash sustainable is this pace sustainable going forward? And then how should we think about buybacks in the subsequent quarters? I know you'll tell me you'll be opportunistic but it seems like you've shifted your focus that way at least little bit.
Yes.
Andy this is Brad Halverson.
I can start.
And so I think on the cash flow side its another positive story for us that we're extremely happy with.
We finished the end of '13 I think with a debt-to-cap at 29.7%.
We did complete the buyback of the $1.7 billion and we had some incentive pay expense.
Even with all that we're going to finish debt-to-cap at 30.2% at the end of the first quarter with $5 billion in cash.
And we have been steadily working on our working capital management.
We've made great progress I think in all areas.
The one that I think remains the biggest opportunity for us will remain in the inventory turn area where we talked about a little bit in CONEXPO.
If you look out a few years we still see continued improvement there.
And so our cash flow situation is very good.
Our priorities remain the same.
And the credit rating mid A is in good shape with our position.
We're continuing to fund growth and push for organic growth.
We don't see anything big.
Pension plan well-funded we only have $200 million of required contributions the rest of the year.
We will make our normal dividend decision in June to the board and announce that at that time.
But our history of dividends will remain kind of consistent with our approach there.
And you're right stock repurchase will be opportunistic.
But I can tell you what we will do is when we get to that decision time we look out a couple of years and we'll model a couple of years of trough and look at what our balance sheet strength would be.
But at this point in time Andy yes I would say we continue to be positive about our ability to generate cash out in the rest of the year and in the next 3 to 4 years and we're in great shape.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Brad.
And then if I just -- if I could ask you guys to step back and maybe talk about U.S.
and European nonresidential construction.
I mean we've heard a lot of mixed sort of feedback this quarter.
I think a lot of people were positive at CONEXPO.
Your results look good but maybe just commentary on how you see that market unfolding here this year and beyond? Sorry I was -- I missed that question Andy I was saying something to Doug here.
Research Division</strong> No worries.
So just on U.S.
and European nonres or commercial construction a lot of mixed feedback we get on that topic.
And people were pretty positive on it at CONEXPO.
Your numbers look good but maybe just commentary on the overall market.
Yes.
I mean you get -- it seems like you get mixed messages almost every day on housing.
One day it's -- prices are up there's -- and it's a hot market.
And then the day after that you get sales of existing homes down.
But if you look at the fine print of those because one of the comments is there's not enough supply.
So I think our view of housing is that it will continue particularly for starts kind of continue to get better.
We think this year is going to be over 1 million.
So I think we're pretty constructive on -- at least for the U.S.
housing I mean.
But again you've got to put that in perspective.
It's still way below where it was 6 years ago 7 years ago.
So getting better but not great.
Europe has been -- I don't think I can give you a separate comment on res versus nonres there.
But it has been steady positive for us over the course of the quarter.
Whether that will keep up I think depends a lot on kind of confidence there and kind of is this economic growth starting to get a little bit better does it continue? Because one thing you've got to remember about our business and that is most of what we sell at any given quarter is to replace something that's worn out.
And what customers are -- it's not -- certainly at this point in those markets it's not about increasing the capacity of the installed base.
It's about replacing things that need to be replaced.
And what you need is business confidence reasonable results from construction activity interest rates that are supportive and we kind of have those things.
So I'd say we remain reasonably constructive on construction for the developed world.
And you're right the number for the first quarter kind of pan that out.
Our final question today is coming from David Raso.
Research Division</strong> ISI.
Just wanted to figure out the EPS progression the rest of the year.
It seems like you're implying second quarter EPS is below 1Q and really that's only happened once in the last 20 years and that's the quarter when you were trying to absorb Bucyrus initially.
So I'm just trying to figure out are you being conservative or maybe I need to figure out more about the sales mix help in the first quarter for Construction so I can more understand why the margins need to come down in Construction and/or do you feel that Resource Industries margins have bottomed yet? So I'm just trying to understand why we're down sequentially in 2Q.
Yes.
I think a couple of things.
One even in Resource Industries it's our intention to increase spending on programs that we really need to do for the long term.
I kind of talked about those a little bit.
So I think if you look at our level of spending on programs in the first quarter it was extraordinary -- it's usually seasonally light and it was probably even more so in the first quarter this year.
Now we had a rough year last year.
And I'll tell you we came into the year with the management team with a lot of caution.
We were purposely trying to push as much of the program spending out that we had allowed in the plan and was in our outlook beyond the first quarter.
We wanted to get part of the year under our belt to see how it was actually going to turn out before we started up some of the programs.
So we have been cautious with the management team early on the timing of expense for this year.
So I think we benefited by that in the first quarter and we'll see some cost increase for things again that we need to do that will come later in the year.
For Construction I think there will be some margin decline.
The first quarter was heavier on excavation and earthmoving.
The rest of the year proportionately will be a bit more of the smaller BCP product.
I think we expect some more rental-loading as we go through the year and that will be a little bit negative to mix so we think that will be the case as well.
So it'd be great if it was better than that.
We would certainly like that but I think our outlook for the year is kind of our reasonable and prudent view today of how it looks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone.
With that we're a couple of minutes over.
Thanks for sticking with us.
We'll sign off.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
Now Id like to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Strategic Services.
And on the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
Now this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
And if you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com Web site and it'll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
So this morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information and it certainly involves risks and uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A which is Risk Factors out of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of 2014 and also in the forward-looking statements language in today's release.
Now in addition to that a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can also be found in our release today and again its posted on caterpillar.com in the Investors section.
Okay lets get started this morning and Ill be covering three themes before we get into the Q&amp;A.
Second quarter sales and profit the outlook for 2014 and our announcement this morning of additional share repurchase expected in the third quarter.
Now before we really get into the quarterly numbers I thought it might be helpful to summarize the major themes from this mornings release.
In other words what were the key points were trying to get across.
The first point is around stability and consistency.
Back in October of 2013 we provided a preliminary outlook for 2014 sales and revenues and back then we said it looked to us like 2014 would be a relatively flat year with 2013.
That was the case then and thats the case today.
The midpoint of our outlook today is within about 1% of 2013s sales and revenues.
The second main theme this morning is around execution which has been good.
Manufacturing SG&amp;A and R&amp;D costs are close to 500 million favorable in the first half versus the first half of 2013.
Cash flows continue to be strong weve improved inventory turns PINS continue to improve and weve raised our profit outlook again this morning.
Now the third major theme this morning is cash deployment and the actions weve taken to help drive shareholder return.
With the stock buyback we announced this morning we expect that from the start of 2013 last year to the end of the third quarter of this year that we will have repurchased $6.2 billion worth of CAT stock and made two substantial increases in the quarterly dividend.
So thats three themes consistency execution and shareholder friendly cash deployment.
Okay now lets get into the second quarter results.
Sales and revenues were 14.2 billion and that was about 3% below the second quarter last year.
Construction Industries was up 11% Resource Industries down 29 and the rest energy and transportation financial products and our all other segment combined to be roughly flat with the second quarter of last year.
Now for construction North America has been an area of strength and you might be surprised to hear so is our EAME region particularly Europe in the second quarter its been better as well.
Now construction sales in the Latin America were about flat with the second last year but as we get into the third quarter Latin America will likely turn a bit negative versus last year and thats not driven by big economics its primarily related to large sales of Backhoe Loaders and Motor Graders now that weve had to the Brazilian government.
It was positive for sales last year and through the first half of this year but those orders are complete.
So you should expect to see in the retail statistics of your release each month some decline there so dont be surprised if you see that we expect that it is included in our outlook.
Now construction sales in Asia Pacific were down slightly and that includes weaker sales in China.
Now in China we started the year 2014 with the improving construction equipment demand but over the second quarter it weakened a bit.
Our resource industries segment which again is mostly mining was down 29%.
It was down 35% to 40% in every region of the world except North America.
North America was much less negative than the other regions partly because the steep sales decline in North America started earlier in other words it was probably closer to the bottom a year ago.
In addition better sales to chlorine aggregate customers was also a factor that part of resource industries tends to be a little more closely aligned with construction and the particularly in North America that has been performing better so again overall mining sales weak.
However this was the first quarter since 2012 that resource industries sales were higher than the previous quarter.
So that means second quarter of 2014 sales were about 6% higher than the first quarter.
Sales improved from first to second for both new equipment and for parts.
In fact for parts it is the second consecutive quarterly improvement.
Q1 of 2014 was up slightly from Q4 of 13 and Q2 this year was a little better than Q1.
Now it is too soon to suggest that the mining business is turning around but its going to see sequential improvement.
Moving on to energy and transportation it has been incredibly stable high performing business over the past few years and this quarter was no exception.
Overall sales for energy and transportation were stable with the second quarter of last year.
And even if you take it down to the next level and you look at sales in the major industry served by energy and transportation thats oil and gas PowerGen transportation and industrial the sales were individually pretty flat with the exception of PowerGen and that was down sort of high single-digits but even there we see that being an issue around the timing of some large projects.
So in summary on second quarter sales and as you probably expected going into the quarter construction sales were up nicely mine sales were lower everything else was pretty much flat.
Okay I will shift from sales to profit in the second quarter.
Headline numbers profit per share of $1.69 excluding restructuring and $1.57 including restructuring costs.
In comparison profit was $1.45 in the second quarter of 2013.
Now by segment resource industries was the only segment that we had that declined versus the second quarter last year the rest were up.
And a couple of big bright spots were a profit increase of more than 80% for construction industries and an all time record profit for energy and transportation and in fact their first quarterly profit over a $1 billion.
From a consolidated perspective we provide an operating profit comparison by region in our release and today thats on -- that is the graphic on Page 6 of our financial release because the individual buckets in that waterfall graph were relatively small Im not going to go into each of them in any detail.
But I would summarize by saying that manufacturing cost and products utilization were modestly positive and the negatives were a bit lower sales volume the restructuring costs in the quarter and absence of a sizable $135 million gain that we had in the second quarter last year related to a settlement with the owners of -- previous owners of our Siwei acquisition.
So thats the quarter lets turn to the outlook for 2014 where weve made a modest change to sales and revenues and increased our outlook for profit.
With sales half of the year is behind us and we have tightened up the range and lowered the midpoint slightly.
Now as I mentioned at the outset of the call this morning our view of 2014 sales and revenues has remained reasonably constant in another words a flattish year versus 2013.
We thought that was the case last year we think thats still the case today.
That said with half of the year over we have tighten the range and we have -- the updated range is a forecast of 54 billion to 56 billion in sales and revenues and for reference to previous range was 56 billion plus or minus 5% that meant a range of just over 53 billion to just under 59 billion.
The middle of the new range is 55 billion and that is slightly lower than the previous midpoint of 56 billion and most of that change is in construction industries and reflects the weaker sales expectations in China based on the reporting out of China that probably shouldnt be much of a surprise and decline in expectations in the CIS and in the Africa Middle East region and given the political turmoil in those parts of the world thats probably not a big surprise.
In terms of profit for a better understanding of results we are providing outlook again both with and without restructuring costs.
Today we have increased the outlook for both.
Now excluding restructuring costs we have increased it to $6.20 a share thats a $0.10 increase from the prior forecast.
Now our expectation for restructuring costs is near the bottom end of our 400 million to 500 million range.
And with restructuring cost all in our updated outlook is profit per share of 5.75 which is $0.20 per share better than the previous outlook.
Now to help you think about the rest of the year the third and the fourth quarter theres one more thing I would like to cover and thats how we are thinking about the last two quarters.
There is typically seasonality in our sales and we think thats going to be the case this year as well.
So we have got half of the year behind us and you know the midpoint of our outlook.
We basically have the second half of the year not a lot different than the first half.
Now we expect sales and revenues in the third quarter to be similar to the first quarter of 2014 and fourth-quarter sales to be more in line with the second quarter of 2014.
In terms of profit per share with lower sales in the third quarter it would likely be the weakest profit quarter of the year and with higher sales in the fourth quarter profit per share should be similar to the average of the first and second quarters of 2014.
I hope that helps you think about our expectations and how the third and fourth quarter could play out.
And if you missed writing that down again we will be reposting the transcript of this call on our caterpillar.com Web site.
Now in addition to our financial results this morning we announced that we expect to purchase or repurchase another $2.5 billion of caterpillar stock in the third quarter.
This repurchase is a part of the 10 billion that the Board authorized earlier this year.
Now the context behind our repurchases really over the past two years is consistent with our cash deployment priorities.
Coming out of the 2008 and 2009 great recession we had work to do to improve the strength of the balance sheet.
We needed to invest for growth and with very low interest rates our employee benefit plans needed additional funding.
Over the past few years we have made significant progress.
Our machinery engines and transportations at the capital ratio is at the low-end of our target range.
Benefit plan funding is in good shape.
And we generally have the production capacity in place that we think we will need for the next few years.
And although we will continue to be opportunistic we arent expecting any large acquisitions.
So with nearly 9 billion of machinery engines and transportation operating cash flow last year in 2013 and nearly 4 billion in the first half of this year and with significant cash on hand we have had the opportunity to take substantial actions to improve shareholder return.
In 2013 we repurchased $2 billion worth of stock and raised the dividend by 15%.
In June of 2014 we increased the dividend again an additional 17% and by the end of the third quarter of this year we expect to have repurchased about 4.2 billion of stock in 2014.
Thats a 1.7 billion in the first quarter and the 2.5 billion in the third quarter.
Rewarding stockholders is an important goal and our actions demonstrate our commitment.
So in summary we had a pretty good second quarter.
We raised the profit outlook for 2014 and we announced another $2.5 billion of stock repurchase.
So with that were ready to shift over to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
I'm from Barclays.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Hey Andy good morning.
So Mike you said in the release that dealer inventories declined about $500 million in the quarter and you also talked in the release about the decline in inventories this year now being more than you previously expected mostly driven by Resource Industries.
How much did this contribute to the reduction of your sales forecast and what kind of visibility do you have to a bottoming and destocking really across the Company but particularly in Resource Industries? Good question Andy dealer inventory certainly a benefactor versus our original outlook when we started the year.
It kind of looks now like dealer inventory is going to be down maybe $1 billion or so more than we thought.
In fact the first quarter and the second quarter combined we are still a slightly for the year.
We had a 700 increase in the first quarter 500 increased the second quarter and a lot of that is seasonality.
But in the second half were looking for about 800 million of decline per quarter so about a 1.6 billion coming out in the second half so.
Now thats having an impact on second quarter Im sorry second half results.
And its a couple of things you know one weve not really had a turnaround in mining yet and so dealers are continuing to satisfy some demand out of inventory.
We thought it was going to be a lot less coming into the year and things might start picking up we really havent seen that yet.
So thats one factor and I think on construction you know dealer inventory were going to end the year probably a little bit lower than we thought.
And thats actually despite a pretty darn good year so far for construction.
I think its a case where we talk a lot about execution weve actually been able to take down our lane one channel inventory that we have and dealers have been able to take their inventory down as well I think were -- when you think about whats an adequate supply kind of going back to your question you know its within a range and I think particularly for construction its getting down to you know a pretty good level.
So you know if demand doesnt decline then youd have to think going forward the dealer inventorys going to be in even better shape at the end of this year than it was last year.
So in summarize your question I know I was kind of long winded.
Dealer inventories having a bit more of an impact this year in on it its a principle reason why the second half sales arent going to be better than what is in our forecast.
Okay Mike that's helpful.
And then maybe just shifting gears you talked about the timing of large projects negatively impacting your E&amp;T retail sales but really your outlook for E&amp;T really hasn't changed.
Can you talk about your visibility in this segment? Do you still feel good about it because backlog is up and maybe specifically about power generation what you see there?  Yes Id say E&amp;T overall Id say we feel very good second half looks like its going to be pretty strong.
Weve had I would say very good order rates over the last quarter particularly for oil and gas for large engine products in general but oil and gas has been particularly good so thats contributed to the increase in the back log there.
With electric power we kind of have a couple of different businesses.
We have -- we break it down between the investor business which is essentially large scale installations that small we call it retail gen sets.
The big gen set business the big end has been pretty good and thats the piece of it that can tend to be lumpy around big projects.
We had some last year well have some this year.
And the timing affects how that plays out certainly by month and by quarter and you see that in the retail statistics itll move around quite a bit.
Ill tell you we feel pretty good about energy and transportation overall really most of the sectors within there and particularly the oil and gas.
Thank you Mike.
Hi it's Vertical Research Partners and good morning everybody.
Mike you mentioned the oil and gas strengthened.
I know fracing has been ticking up and some of your channel partners have been bullish on that and the pipeline and a bunch of other stuff.
If I am not mistaken you have a Tier 4 changeover in some of the oil and gas engines for next year.
Could you talk generally about the higher horsepower Tier 4 how many engines you have running how confident you feel whether there is any kind of pre-buy going on there?  Im going to have to defer that question Rob.
Im not an expert on that.
I dont know the number.
Okay.
No that's fine that's fine.
I will follow-up after.
I should have sent it before.
And then I guess the second question you just kind of addressed at length so I apologize for going back to it but the dealer inventory which you gave good disclosure on but are you comfortable that the Construction which has been very strong and you are gaining share in an up markets so it is really hard to sort out but are you comfortable that Construction inventory hasn't restocked a little bit too much? Can you tell that -- especially in LatAm where some of the markets look really soft you mentioned the big government project so I'm just curious if you think the Construction inventory overinflated at all in the first half? Your margins were quite good in the first half and you are signaling down.
So that is my second question.
No I think the first and second quarters played out pretty close to what we thought if you think about it the first quarter for sales to end users is always one of the lowest quarters of the year.
Dealers commonly stock up and then sell it down in the second quarter which they did this year it came down.
And then the third quarter is usually pretty weak as well a lot of Europe is on vacation a lot of other parts of the world take vacation time and we feel that in our business so certainly a bit more of thatll come out in the third quarter and then again more probably in the fourth quarter.
Its always tough to forecast this with massive accuracy I mean we look at what are reasonable months of sales are but that varies by region and its a reasonable range and I think construction based on where we are in terms of the timing of the year lesser expectations are for year-end is definitely within that reasonable range.
Thank you.
And then are you able to say what the total mining dealer de-stock is this year? You have kind of said it but I just want to make sure I back into it right.
I think its going to end up being about 1 billion of memory serves me Im not a 100% sure on that but I think thats over magnitude.
Thanks Mike.
Which is more than we thought coming into the year.
Okay thank you.
Hi good morning Credit Suisse.
I guess a couple questions around the mining or the Resource business.
The sales were up sequentially which was nice.
The margins were down sequentially.
I get the year-over-year issues but I guess the margins in Resource disappointed a little relative to my expectations.
In particular when you said aftermarket was up again.
So can you just talk about that? Is that just investment that you incurred this year that you held off on last year? And then I think last quarter you said in terms of resource margins you expected them to be about flat with the first quarter.
Is that still the way to think about it? And then my second question again sorry a follow-up on just the Resource business.
You said I think OE and aftermarket was up.
Can you give a little color around what markets both on OE and aftermarket just a little more color on that commentary you mentioned in the prepared remarks?  Yes this is Brad Halverson.
Just one comment on our resource industries segment in terms of its margins this segment is critically important to us and weve made a conscious effort to continue to invest in the technology and autonomous mining and those types of things as well as our initiatives around Bucyrus.
And so I would say that we have made a conscious decision relative to maybe our normal expectations on pull through to continue to invest in the segment even where their sales are at.
And Jamie their incrementals I think too were really operationally better than the numbers look like just right after face of the statement.
Last year they had a $135 million gain from the Siwei settlement so if you take that if you adjust for that operationally they were pretty good.
No I get that.
But is there any way you can tell us like what the investment number this year relative to sort of what you are thinking about last year and then again how to think about margins for the full year?  Yes were at a point now where margins are low enough and sales are low enough the percentages I think the dollars are probably in some ways a little more important and easier way to think about it.
We were $140 million something in the first quarter 130 million something in the second quarter and I dont think youre going to see material changes from that probably for the rest for the year.
Okay sorry and then just any additional color on the commentary with the aftermarket being up again in the second quarter? Was that a sequential uptick from Q1 and then just color on where you are seeing it and on the OE side as well?  Yes actually from first to second in fact what I looked at last night was sort of a less about regions and more about products it was actually I mean small numbers Im going to start with that small numbers but fairly widespread on the OE.
And the part sales we have strength in part sales on things like underground coal trucks traditional CAT were actually a little better than most where were seeing down side on the aftermarket now and things like deferred maintenance on big shovels and the drag lines and alike but Id say that and the numbers arent huge even the increase quarter-over-quarter was actually relatively small but thankfully turned in the right direction.
Okay great.
Thanks Ill get back in queue.
Yes Morgan Stanley.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to address the locomotive business a little bit.
Your biggest competitor there saw pretty strong equipment order growth this quarter I think like 40%.
So I am just curious how locomotive orders are trending for Cat? Are you guys seeing the positive impact associated with the Tier 4 pre-buy at all yet?  Yes yes so this is a big year for locomotive sale probably the biggest since weve owned EMD.
There have been a lot of misconceptions about this and this is a good opportunity I think to clear some of those up EMD has been great acquisition on our part their market share has gone up in North American locomotives quite a bit since we brought them.
Their sales have gone up quite a bit and I would use the words pre-buy but certainly dealers have ordered a lot of locomotives from us as well as our competitors for delivery this year  Okay.
Do you think we'll start seeing the sales pick up in like 3Q or is it mostly a 4Q event? Production has been going pretty solid all year long effectively were book solid.
If we could have built more we probably could have sold a little bit more this year.
But we are book solid on locomotives.
The timing of the sales is around when we deliver them.
And we will probably have a better both third quarter and fourth-quarter.
Now on the whole Tier 4 question were close to our customers.
There are not that many North America.
Theyre largely the big class I rail.
We have very close relationship with essentially all of them.
We have been talking to them about Tier 4 expectations for a long time.
They have been telling us they dont expect to order much for the next couple of years.
We have talked to them about our Tier 4 plans.
No surprise to them.
Our view is that the marketplace expectations over the next -- that the industry North America over the next couple of years is going to be down a lot from where we are right now.
And the impact of the timing of our Tier 4 product is not going to have a great material impact on our sales at all.
Okay that was really helpful.
I will just add to it.
Its Doug Oberhelman here.
The EMD acquisition in general as Mike said we are really happy with that business.
Since we have owned tails of more than double this is a big year big pre-buy year for sure.
We would expect and have an talking to our customers a post-buy anemia in 15 and 16.
Based on that we modified the Tier 4 development program that was in place and we acquired EMD because we didn't really -- like what we saw in terms of the end product with that engine.
In doing that we contemplated that there will be virtually no or little demand in 15 and 16 in North America.
Thats why were ramped up this year.
Thats why we delayed our Tier 4 program and we will have a really good offering late 15 and 16 in Tier 4 and not to mention our natural gas program for locomotives is already in place and some of those will be available in fact aren't running today.
So we think we really got a good program going.
Our market share has gone up significantly as Mike said in North America and outside North America sales have been fairly active as well.
So were really pleased with EMD acquisition more for better ones.
Okay thanks.
And then my second question is on E&amp;T margin.
So the segment margins there were really good reaching a new high this quarter.
Was there anything special to call out that drove the 19.5% or do you think that that level of strength could continue into the second half? I wont make any comments on their margin in the second half as we dont really do guidance by segment but they have been doing just fabulous job of executing on sales that were actually down a couple of percentage points.
They managed cost down and improved the margins.
Theyve been very stable.
Whether or not its going to be exactly the same for this quarter you know that depends a lot on production mix of products regions theyre sold I mean you can always expect some bit of up and down in the margin rate.
But I think overall theyve just done a great job.
Not just this year but really over the past three years.
Their sales have been stable and profits have been going up.
Okay thanks.
I will pass it on.
Great Citigroup.
Thanks good morning.
Yes Mike just coming back to the comments on oil and gas and specifically within well servicing in North America I'm curious as the capacity is starting to come back how do you feel about your relative position in that market in terms of now having the full offering in terms of pumps transmissions and engines? And kind of related to that are you seeing any -- just given how quickly demand has come back after being dead for 18 months or so -- are you seeing or experiencing any particular kind of product delays or extended backlogs for your products? Well you know this is not a business so much Tim that orders today and expects it tomorrow.
So we are increasing production of large engines.
We are taking up the build rates in Lafayette because of the increasing demand and back to your original point.
Weve been a leader in this kind of business for a long time and I think the additional transmissions and now the pressure pumps with our JV strengthened that.
I think its a great business.
It lines up well with kind of the strength of Caterpillar durability reliability service dealer network parts supply it is a great thing.
Youre right because if you go back a couple of years ago what words to say there was plenty of equipment in the market and it slowed down pretty dramatically from there.
Last year was quiet a down year for our servicing.
But I think theyve gone through maybe the excess inventory theyve had that plus a little bit lower supplies of proper supply of gas supporting prices it looks like it looks in good orders on our standpoint it looks like its going to be a pretty good business.
Okay thanks.
And then just switching back over to -- you touched earlier on the parts sales and mining.
And I saw one of the majors the other day actually the largest miner who they are guiding to production growth across some of their key industrial commodities of 4% to 10% in their fiscal FY15.
And I recognize the industry is doing a lot more now to kind of sweat their assets but just going back to what is embedded in your guidance obviously you've taken the forecast down a bit on mining.
But how long I guess do you expect before we start to see more of a re-coupling between your parts sales versus underlying production?  That is the $64 000 question baffling is probably the wrong word but generally mine production has been pretty good but equipment sales have been very poor.
They probably had a little more equipment that they needed its a little bit almost like the tracking situation.
So it will come back there is no doubt about theyre selling or theyre buying right now at levels that are far below what a normal sustainable replacement level would be but again the question is on little bit like fracing and well servicing when will that turnaround.
Its hopeful to think that with part sale starting to add job a bit the equipment sales not going down anymore that where add an inflection but both the mining customers and our sales have proven that its in the industry thats extremely tough to forecast so the honest answer is it needs to go well it will go well just the timing of when thats going to happen that we dont know.
Just a little more color on Michael.
There is no question that there was an artificial boom of until 2011-12 in the world the bust since then is equally I would of the same magnitude if not worse.
We are see our customers delayed maintenance defer maintenance do you think they have not done in the past.
So at some point and as Mike said we dont when this will come to us even if its replacement part cycle which we havent see yet.
Now I can fully believe as do our customers that the bottom is just behind us are our numbers are just almost miniscule in terms of taking up but they are taking up and I think anecdotally with our customers they see that too when they start to get back into a normal parts replacement cycle and even a normal replacement cycle is a number a lot of that will depend on theyre running and I saw that announcement as well with a big one or two I met with lot of in the last couple months and I know they were talk about taking production down but most of them just trying look again more of the same.
So the bottom-line we dont always going to come back but it will come back and I just see replacement product cycle first in some magnitude.
Thanks.
Thanks Larry De Maria William Blair.
Just stick with EMD for one minute.
I think you mentioned that you have an offering late 2015 or 2016 for Tier 4.
Is that ahead of schedule for the 2017 launch and how successful are we now in building an international book to offset the declines you mentioned domestically?  Couple of things our view is that what we should have a Tier 4 diesel offering for 2017.
We have actually a big after market rail business a big service rail business and we sale locomotives and components internationally and were increasing our passions in rail business as well.
So there is a lot of aspects to this and I think with the big push in North America that weve had this year thats a big demand from customers.
One of the things that we done our best to do is to differ as much of the non North American demand as we can in the next year Im not going to maybe give a forecast for next year just little early for that well talk about 2015 maybe a little bit more next time we get together for these calls in October.
But we have actively tried to focus as much as we possibly could more in North America this year because of the big demand.
Okay thanks.
And then moving over a little bit I know the business plan obviously calls to increase field population and you got some pricing in Construction but in strong markets like North America are we any closer to pushing through bigger price increases or are we still concerned with decreasing PIN at this point? I know it is having some obviously reverberations in the industry and maybe you are under-earning a little bit compared to potential but you are improving your market position so just curious if we are any closer to getting more outsized price gains.
I think our strategy over the last few years and weve been just pounding through this quarter-after-quarter just to have very modest pricing good cost reduction improve quality improve delivery performance and get market share and thats what weve been doing.
Through that period weve had a very stable pricing environment not much up not much down and I dont see that changing in the near future.
Okay thanks.
Hi Raymond James.
You made it clear at your Investor Day that it was a priority for you to take some of the cyclicality out of your business and make your cost structure more flexible.
Just looking at the mining segment and talking about when it returns -- eventually it will return and when it does how do we balance the uptick in demand that we've see in previous cycles and the backlog that we get to with some of the restructuring and layoff costs that you are taking now? Do you think that you are going to be caught as you have in the past with not enough capacity to meet demand?  Well we put in capacity physical capacity in the last cycle and I think we have adequate capacity in mining even for a sizeable upturn when it comes.
What weve tried to do with our cost structure as you say make it more flexible and that means being able to take out costs when volume goes down and add cost when volume comes back in other words try to make more of the cost structure as variable as we can.
And weve done that you know over the past two years in mining weve taken a lot of cost out weve taken fixed cost out or weak off period cost out in our major manufacturing facility but weve done that without materially impacting capacity.
So when things turn up theres no doubt well need to hire more people to get the work done.
But Ill just give you an example of the kinds of things that weve done to make that happen.
You know we increased capacity quite a bit for large trucks over the course of 2010 11 and 12.
But we essentially did that in our Decatur facility I mean we didnt have any square footage to do that it was all about how we laid out the factory the equipment the processes to get more production out of that facility.
So you know other than depreciation we didnt add a lot of fixed cost to get extra capacity so thats just an example of the kinds of things that weve done.
I hope we do get a big turnaround that causes us to need more people I mean thatd be good for us thatd be good for the industry thatd be good for the country.
Let me just add a little bit more to that looking back at 12 we did 65 billion in volume at that time this will apply to both construction mining as well as E&amp;T -- energy and transportation for that matter.
Weve been working hard even though on lean manufacturing which is adding capacity every day in a very lean way as we go forward that will come home to help us as well so youve seen our CapEx numbers come down the last two or three years we invested early during this cycle to take advantage of that which we did we built market share so our CapEx needs are pretty well met we think organically in the next few years at least early through the next upturn so were in pretty good shape with all of that I dont expect to miss a sale to tell you the truth on the way up when the business returns in mining and Id go so far to say expect the same thing in construction.
Because the lean activities were doing here to help us with lead times shorten lead times and better availability.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And my second question has to do with your recovery.
You have kind of described as slow and steady so far this year in the US.
We've seen a couple of months now of non-res pickup and this has typically been the key turning point for you in addition to the highway bill.
How do things sit now that we have had a month or two of non-res pickup how does that change anything from the slow and steady recovery we've seen if at all?  Well its been slow and steady overall actually North America in construction has been you know pretty good this year I would describe North America as a little better than slow and steady.
And although we didnt change it a lot you know as a part of the updated outlook you know the principal change was down for construction as I said before a little China and then the turmoil in the Middle East and the CIS causing caution.
But in the midst of all that we actually edged US construction up a little bit and I think defines there are encouraging.
And to put it in some context though Theoni we've had a few years of improvement in North American construction.
This has been actually a pretty decent year.
But even through all of that we are still thinking this year is kind of unit basis we are still thinking this year is going to be sort of 15% to 20% below the 06 peak.
So there is still a lot of room I think to run in construction in North America.
We just need some sustaining decent economic growth North America.
We need the highway bill to get sorted out.
We need economic activity -- housing starts a well below what the long-term needs to be the support population growth and some point little bit like mining.
That stuff is going to come back and when it does it will be part of it.
And its starting too now.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot Mike.
Bank of America.
Thank you.
Mike with respect to E&amp;T and margins shouldn't mix work strongly in your favor in the second half versus the first half given the pickup in oil and gas orders that you mentioned which at least the turbine business I think is your highest margin business.
You've got the sharp pickup in locomotive orders as well which is still in front of you for the rest of the year or at least the locomotive deliveries excuse me coupled with a weaker PowerGen market.
So I would think margins would be -- the mix would definitely be a benefit in the second half of the year.
The stuff that you have said was true or much of it was but it doesnt act necessarily that all come to the conclusion that you've drawn.
Oil and gas should be we think good in the second half but I think most of the areas of the energy and transportation business we think are going to improve in the second half.
So its not all going to be concentrated in oil and gas.
I dont see a big impact on mix in the second half.
We do have a couple of big orders going out or of one big sale that we are expecting that will probably be a little below the average that will temper -- or be certainly less than the average margin rate that will temper E&amp;T expectations I think a bit in that later in the year.
And E&amp;T is in some way similar to a lot of the rest of the business.
And we have a higher discretionary cost in the second half of the year than we do in the first half of the year.
Some engineering programs are likely going to ramp up there a little bit too.
I wouldnt get carried away on -- margins this quarter were quite good.
I wouldnt get carried away at all thinking that youre going to get a lot better in the second half of E&amp;T.
We had a great second quarter there.
Okay great.
And then you talked about pricing as the principal driver of the margin expansion year on year in E&amp;T.
Can you flesh out a little bit more what is happening there and is it sustainable? Say that again? Yes in your press release you attributed the year-on-year operating profit improvement for E&amp;T to pricing and I was wondering what's happening there any particular businesses where you are seeing more pricing power and is it sustainable? So here is the thing.
When the numbers are relatively small in terms of change -- operating profit if memory serves me up it was up a little over a 50 million.
It wasnt a lot.
When you have small changes in operating profit like that and we are describing the reasons sometimes it makes it seem as though it's maybe more important than it was.
The changes that we had in pricing for Energy and Transportation certainly werent outsized.
Again it is like -- for the total Company if you look at the waterfall chart all of the buckets are relatively small.
So describing anything thats inside them can make them seem a little more important there are.
I dont think there is not a big price increase going on there.
I dont see any big change in pricing activity going forward.
Okay thanks.
And just a last one real quick Russia and CIS I mean how big is it and what are you seeing with the sanctions? Yes its not a huge.
The CIS is not huge for us.
We dont do sales by country.
Its as you would expect a lot less than in someplace like China the industry there is just not as big.
But it has come off.
Even though its not big its come off a lot.
And thats what makes it worth mentioning.
Okay.
Alright thanks very much.
Hi good morning its Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jerry.
Mike at the Analyst Day we spent some time talking about the focus on supplier development and just improving the connectivity.
I'm wondering if you could just give us an update on how those efforts are tracking if you can share supplier on-time deliveries or other metrics that are willing to talk about just to give us a sense for progress?  Jerry thats a great question.
But as all the things I tried prepare for this call that wasnt one of them Id happy to ask the purchasing guys of the Chairmen group that question but Im afraid I dont have a good answer for you.
How about a second question?  Jerry maybe I just kind of quickly in general terms I can get the numbers back in terms of percent but I would say our global purchasing group under the Dave Bozeman combining that with our lean initiative focused on built in quality right time and then more importantly perhaps the customer lead times.
The collaboration with our supplier is outstanding right now and we are seeing good progress connected to our lean initiatives across the board.
So I would say relative to our engagement with suppliers in collaboration and you kind of seeing that taking our material cost results over the last year and half is often very positive.
Okay.
And my second question just on the restructuring costs it sounds like the timing is moving around a bit.
Can you just give us a sense for what kind of cost savings you will be delivering by the fourth quarter on a run rate basis and what kind of tailwind we should look for next year? And then separately Mike I guess in the past when sales have stabilized at low levels in places like resources you have been able to deliver improved profitability and margins even at flat sales once you stopped cutting production and I am wondering if that is a possibility as we think about 2015 if you are willing to address that.
I will let Mike handle this is Brad again handle 15 and the back half but I would say the restructuring has just moved a little bit will have some of that cost move in the 2015 I would say probably roughly around the midpoint 450 is still a good number in total but some of that will over 15 and I would say the benefit by a large consistent with what weve talked about before but its not the only thing were doing around cost restructuring across management I would say.
We talk a little bit about what weve done in terms of last kind of conference.
Were embracing the fact that we do have some cyclicality but I think the thing to remember is the fact that we have a lot diversity and really have one segment right now thats not performing and its in the bottom of their cycle but we have a strong energy in transportation business and construction business strong in North America little concern in developing world with the margins that improve significantly.
So I would say from an execution standpoint how we are managing these businesses and where were spending our money the good cost reduction last year we had 500 million roughly in the first half of this year and its kind of part of how were operating there.
So I feel pretty good about the fact that we have good consistent execution.
You didnt ask this but I just wanted to time in one more thing that I thought Mike come up but he hasnt if you look at the second half of the year and the first half of the year we got a headwind in the second half of the year it was a small headwind it was the small tailwind in the first half for the year its going to be pretty neutral inventory absorption.
Weve had not dealer in inventory we had a small increase in the first half and we expect that come down in the second half and finish the year a little bit basically fairly neutral But what that has meant is that has been a little positive in the first half of the year and it will be a little negative in the second half of the year and thats also one of the reasons why youre seeing a little difference in first half and second half profit.
Thank you.
I think we have time for one more.
Okay.
Well take the next question from David Raso.
Please state your affiliation.
ISI.
Can I clarify the dealer inventory comments? Sequentially did you say down $800 million each of the next two quarters?  Yes we did.
And that includes engines and machines or just machines?  Thats machines I dont think engines is forecast to change much.
Dealer inventory in engines is smaller than much more stable what I was talking about was machines.
So just to be clear then the second half of the year on a year-over-year basis production then is going to be largely in line with retail?  Say that again David.
The year-over-year -- the first half of the year you have had some nice help from the dealer swings in inventory.
I mean overall it wasnt much we went up 700 first quarter down 500 second quarter so first half was 200 million Well I'm thinking year over year Mike.
The first half of the year you had about $1.8 billion.
It was about $1.8 billion help right just the year-over-year changes.
The second half of the year just so I am clear it looks like the year-over-year change will be pretty much neutral because last year third quarter inventory went down $800 million.
Last year fourth quarter inventory went down $700 million sequentially right so the year over year is a bit of a push.
Yes.
So that said if production is going to be basically in line with retail year over year it implies the dealer stats the retail stats.
You must be looking at something from the dealers that are telling you that the retail data is going to get also pretty close to flat year over year because that is how you are forecasting your own sales for the second half.
I know the dealer stats don't include pricing don't include parts but I just want to make sure I am reading that right as I see the dealer stats come out.
There must be some implication here that the dealer stats do get close to flat over the course of the second half of the year.
Is that fair?  Yes.
I think we would see it trending move towards that as the year goes on.
I think thats a very reasonable assumption.
Okay.
And then last one the sequential from mining revenue? David I will just go on from that.
Throughout much of last year the mining numbers were continuing to go down.
And so what a lot of that will be is -- we will be lapping what was actually quite low Resource Industries.
That is probably where you will see a lot of improvement.
Youve already started to see that.
This last month on Resource Industries it was less negative than prior months by reasonable margin.
Well to that point obviously people watch the monthly retails and the fact is if you look at the last three months for machines it was still down 10 engines was also down 10.
The way the guide plays out obviously you must be looking at something from the dealers that tell you we are going to get pretty close to flat year over year in the second half.
And I don't mean just one month I mean basically for the first half and the second half right? That is how you get to your own sales.
So that moment retail turns positive I mean obviously the stock is going to respond to that.
So I am just trying to figure out am I reading that properly that there is something you are seeing from your dealers that is telling you you are going to have a machine number I don't care if it is Resource Construction but combined those numbers are going close to flat soon as well as an engines or you couldn't have a flat Cat sales in the second half because there is no longer that big production retail gap.
I am not going to give you an exact kind of number because as you started up parts and service matters pricing matters currency impact matter a bit.
But I think your underlying premise is that the retail stat should relative to a year ago start looking better is absolutely true.
Alright.
Now that we are past 12 Eastern I will cut it off.
I'll ask you my second question off-line.
But thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Okay with that were a couple minutes over we will wrap it up.
Thank you very much everyone and we will see you again in October.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
Now Id like to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Hey good morning everyone and were very happy to have you with us this morning for our third quarter earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Strategic Services.
And on the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
Remember this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of todays call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com Web site and it'll be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
Now this morning for sure we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate we believe could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in the cautionary statements under Item 1A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of 2014 and our 10-Q filed with the SEC in August of 2014.
And its also in the forward-looking statements language contained in this mornings financial release.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our financial release this morning and again thats been posted on our Web site at caterpillar.com.
So lets get started.
Ill be covering three things this morning; our third quarter results the increase in our profit outlook for 2014 and our preliminary outlook for 2015 sales and revenues.
Now before I get into the quarter though I thought it might be helpful to summarize just a couple of themes from this mornings financial release key points that we were trying to get across.
And the first one is around stability and consistency.
Last year and about this time we provided our first view of 2014 that was our preliminary outlook of sales and revenues for 14 that we did with our third quarter release.
Back then we said it looked to us like 14 would be relatively flat year with 2013 that was the case then thats about whats happened through the first nine months of this year and thats still our full year view today so consistency.
Second point is around profit while sales and revenues for the first nine months of both 2013 and 2014 have been around $41 billion profit per share is up year-to-date and every quarter of this year has been higher than the corresponding quarter of 2013.
Profit per share so far to the first nine months of 2014 or $4.64 all in and $5.03 excluding restructuring and thats both of those are up from first nine months of last year which was $4.21.
So while there are number of puts and takes the point is we worked hard on operational execution and cost management and thats helped results.
Okay with that lets turn to the third quarter.
Sales and revenues were $13.5 billion and that was up about $100 million from $13.4 billion in the third quarter of last year.
While sales and revenues didnt change much profit per share rose from $1.45 last year to $1.63 this year or $1.72 without restructuring cost.
The increase in profit per share in that increase still are number of puts and takes.
On the positive side price utilization was up currency impacts both in operating profit and below the line and other income and expense were positive.
Our share count was lower and that was positive for profit per share as well.
On the other side SG&amp;A R&amp;D and manufacturing cost were a little higher positives included material cost which were favorable but more than offset by higher employee incentive compensation expense and a little higher warranty thoughts.
The incentive compensation increase as a result of 2014 performance being well ahead of the targets we set when we started the year.
Now results by segment; energy and transportation sales were up $663 million or about 13% their profit was up $250 million or about 29%.
Most of that sales increase was from improved volume.
And interim energy and transportation remember we have several different industries that were serving.
Oil &amp; gas power gen transportation and thats rail and marine and industrial and thats where we sell engines to other equipment manufacturers.
Sales were up in all of those industries.
Oil &amp; Gas in industrial were up relatively in line with the segment average transportation grew a little faster than the segment average and power gen a little less than the average.
The profit increase for the core energy and transportation in the quarter was largely result of the higher sales.
Now for construction industry sales were down $98 million the profit improved a $194 million or about 67%.
Now for sales on the plus side construction had positive price realization.
On the downside volume was little lower and most of that was from dealer inventory reductions as dealers lowered inventories a little more in the third quarter of this year than they did in the third quarter of 2013 for construction.
And user demand was also down slightly from the absence of the large sales of the Brazilian Government that we had last year and I mentioned that in our second quarter financial release.
We also had little lower demand throughout most of Asia including China and weakness in the Middle East and in the CIS.
On the plus side demand was up in North America and we had a small improvement in Europe.
The profit improvement was a result of the positive price realization some of the currency impacts and favorable manufacturing cost.
In resource industries which is principally mining sales were down $496 million or about 19% from the third quarter of last year and profit was off $239 million or about 62%.
The decline in sales was primarily lower volume.
Price realization wasnt significantly different one way or the other.
The volume decline was largely a continuation of what weve been saying all year.
While overall mine production has been good and many of the global mining companies are improving their performance their purchases of new equipment are at low levels.
While sales this year are below last year; the 2014 quarterly sales trend has been pretty stable.
The 2.1 billion in the first quarter 2.2 billion in the second quarter and 2.2 billion in the third quarter not a lot of change quarter-to-quarter as we progress through the year.
The decline in profit from the third quarter of last year was primarily a result of the lower sales.
While profit in resource industry is down from the year ago much like the sales its been in a fairly tight ban [ph] throughout 2014.
In the first quarter profit was $149 million second quarter was $133 million and third quarter was $147 million.
Again similar to sales its been pretty stable but at low level.
Our financial product segment revenues were up 44 million and operating profit was up too so not much change from a year ago.
Now before I move on to the outlook Id like to touch on the balance sheet and cash flow.
We generated another 1.4 billion of machinery and energy and transportation operating cash flow this quarter and are $5.4 billion through the first three quarters of 2014.
Our balance sheet remains strong with the machinery energy and transportation debt-to-total capital ratio less than 35% which is comfortably towards the low end of our desired range.
Given the current demand environment we generally have the capacity we need and CapEx expectations this year are less than 2 billion.
Our strong cash flows enabled us to repurchase 4.2 billion of stock so far this year and we announced an increase of 17% in the quarterly dividend last June.
And weve maintained a healthy cash balance at about 6 billion with the ability to invest.
With that lets turn to the outlook.
For 2014 we now expect sales and revenues to be about $55 billion which was the mid-point of our previous $54 billion to $56 billion outlook range.
We have however increased our profit outlook for the year.
Previously at the $55 billion mid-point of our sales and revenues range with expected profit at about $5.75 a share or $6.20 excluding the restructuring cost.
Were pleased this morning to announce that weve raised that to $6 a share all-in and $6.50 excluding the restructuring cost.
Now in addition to the outlook for 2014 as we typically do in our third quarter financial release we provided what we call preliminary outlook for next year sales and revenues.
As we look towards 2015 from an economic perspective we think there is a reasonable likelihood the world economic growth can improve that in 2015.
In the developed countries growth-oriented monetary policies we think could support continued modest improvement.
In developing countries several governments raised interest rates for constraint liquidity in 2013 to either control inflation or protect exchange rates.
And those measures slowed growth in 2014.
More recently interest rates in some of those countries have stabilized and weve seen the first monetary policy easing in the third quarter of 2014.
In addition we think there is some potential for increased investment infrastructure particularly in countries like United States if we could get a highway built India and Turkey.
Despite cautious optimism for improved global economic growth significant risks and uncertainties remain and that could temper growth in 15.
Political conflicts and social unrest continue to disrupt economic activity in several regions in particular in the CIS Africa and the Middle East.
In addition the Chinese governments push from structural reform has slowed growth some and the ongoing uncertainty around the direction and timing of fiscal policy and monetary policy in the U.S.
could temper business confidence.
As a result of all that our preliminary outlook for 2015 sales and revenues is flat to slightly up.
Now one thing you wont find in this mornings release is the discussion about 2015 profit.
Thats typical for this time of year and we start our planning process with sales we provide a top line view of next years sales with our third quarter release we completed our planning process in the fourth quarter and well provide a more complete view of 2015 in our January release along with our yearend 2014 results.
So in summary profit per share was up in the third quarter.
We had another good solid quarter of cash flow our sales outlook for 14 is similar to our previous outlook and we raised the profit outlook for 2014.
Our preliminary outlook for 15 is flat to slightly up.
So with that were ready to take your questions.
Thank you very much; ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you very much well take our first question from Ted Grace please announce your affiliation and post your question.
Mike I know you said that you didn't want to give too much on -- or really any guidance on profitability but could you speak to at least --?  But youre going to ask anyway right? Well no what I was going to say as a starting point could you frame out at least across the three segments how you're thinking about each in the context of sales being flat to up slightly? Where would you have the most optimism the most caution and maybe start there?  Yes I think in the scheme of things our view around each of the segments is much like the total I dont think we dont see big swings up or down really in any of the segment.
I mean its always as you know looking out that far is tough to always be exact but or ever be exact I guess but by and large we dont see a lot of change going forward in any of the three segments.
Okay.
And the second thing I was hoping to ask either you or Doug is one of the big initiatives you've talked a lot about is making the Company a lot more nimble and kind of reactive to the demand environment that gets served to the Company something that's outside your control.
Can you just speak to the progress you've made in 2014 and how you think that sets you up for 2015 and to the degree you can talk about specific metrics whether it's cycle times or philosophy that would be great?  That actually used to be a quite long answer delving into operations I think what Ill do is kind of summarize it for you a little bit.
One of the key metrics that weve that kind of measures the success or failure of that is the incremental operating profit pull through.
We have had target of around 25% and weve taken the actions needed to be flexible enough to achieve that.
But embedded in that there are lean helps if you would improve cycle times that helps were down that path but I think the ultimate measure of this is when either profit goes up or goes down do we have the flexibility that take cost out going down and I think weve shown that we do.
Well just to add that Mike its Doug here and I agree with that completely.
In terms of really lean manufacturing lean six sigma standard work its -- I think were still early in the process here.
We probably got about a third of our sales where manufacturing anyway covered to some with where we want to be in our first wave of lean really deeply manufacturing in every one of those cases whether its a medium wheel loader line in Aurora Illinois.
Wheeled excavators in Grenoble France and I can go on certain solar is a good example of that too weve seen really tremendous improvements in quality in throughput in inventory in almost all metrics and were encouraged.
But there is a lot more work to do and as I said to you all many times we really expect to see big chunks of this coming in 14 and 15 I think we saw some of that some of year-to-date numbers we certainly have seen it in the quality of margins in the third quarter but in my mind we still got plenty of work to do on that.
I also said earlier today that in a way flat production really gives us time -- production output gives us time to get to work on this when things are booming its hard to work on efficiency because were trying to satisfy the market in 13 when the bottom fell out in mining were cutting cost at every moment and we really cant think about how we want to organize a manufacturing line.
Well since mid 12 or so certainly the 13 and 14 in construction and in energy and transportation that team has been doing that and shows in the margins.
Mining will be next the mining recoveries will really I think prove what we can do with that because a lot of that work is being done now too.
So I think weve seen a down payment on it but in my mind there is more to come.
Thank you very much.
Well take our next question from Eli Lustgarten.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Can we first talk a little bit about the fourth quarter as we look out I mean youre sort of giving us guidance of about a little over $14 billion and while I recognize there is about $0.15 $0.16 from lower taxes and foreign currency in this quarter your guidance your midpoint of guidance $1.47 or so for the numbers can you give us a bridge why the fourth quarter will be -- with higher volume will be somewhat weaker profitability because youve been pretty stable and production pretty stable in profitability for the year? Hello? Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen please remain on the line.
Were going to get this up reconnected one moment.
Okay gentlemen we are live.
Eli could you ask it again weve got cut-off it was not --  I was wondering if I did something wrong or not.
Okay the first question very quickly on the fourth quarter youre guiding to a little bit over $14 billion.
Youve been very stable in production very stable in profits almost for the year.
Youre guiding us to lower numbers in the fourth quarter on profitability and I know there is like $0.16 of lower taxes and benefits and some currency in the quarter.
Can you give us a bridge of what youre expecting in the fourth quarter its different to drop the profitability to under $1.50 from the $1.60 that you have been doing?  Yes youre right.
With our fourth quarter outlook or our full year outlook its not too hard to turn that into a forecast for the quarter and we do expect profit to be down a little bit in the fourth quarter.
A couple of things that you mentioned we had currency gains in the quarter and there are lot of things that we think we can do a decent job of forecast and exchange rate is not one of them.
So were not forecasting changes in exchange rates from here.
So there is no continuation of the gain.
We had favorable tax item in the quarter that goes away as well.
So those are two positives that were in the third quarter that wont be in the fourth quarter.
We typically have seasonally higher cost in the fourth quarter.
Were wrapping up the year and discretionary spending tends to rise a bit so that all happens essentially by almost every year but I can remember since I have been at the company.
So weve got that worked in.
One other item probably I know is we expect a little bit of negative mix in the fourth quarter.
Well have couple of a big electric power sale that we think will be completed in the fourth quarter at quite a bit lower margins than the total.
So I think I would say mix seasonal cost and absence of the couple of the favorable items from the third quarter that pretty much bridges that I think.
Okay.
And can we talk about the construction industries segment I mean you warned us in the second quarter about lower emerging market business taking $1 billion out of production.
But we're hearing strong things particularly in the US.
In the quarter we have emissions coming next year so the dealers are saying that they're having trouble even getting inventory out of Caterpillar for some of the demands that they would want.
Can you give us some insight of what you expect for the Construction Industries in the fourth quarter and particularly as you go into next year because that should be one of your better quarters particularly North America.
Ill try to answer your question but Im going to try to answer another one that you kind of touched on but didnt actually ask directly and thats on inventories.
Yes.
Sometimes I think there is confusion around dealer inventories.
Since we sell through dealers we frequently talk about changes in dealer inventory that kind of help give a complete picture of whats going on.
But just because inventories go up or down doesnt mean that theyre  themselves that doesnt mean that its well managed or poorly managed.
There are lot of seasonal impacts that go on during the year in construction for example we had a sizable increase in the first quarter in inventory and that kind of builds up for the spring and summer selling season and that it gets worked on for the rest of the year.
That happened in the third quarter last year that happened in the third quarter this year fourth quarter of that usually tends to happen as well.
Dealers tend to sell a little more than we ship them.
So that occurred in the third quarter than it probably occur again next quarter.
In terms of construction its a mix bag around the world.
We tend that we live in the U.S.
and we get influence by what we hear in the U.S.
a lot and its been actually pretty positive its been quite a bright spot although I wouldnt make the pitch that allow us better that doesnt mean its great.
We are I guess 7 to 8 years now past where the peak was and that was 06 and 07.
So we still have a ways to go to get to where we would think its really good but it has been better.
Other parts of the world its a little bit of a different story.
China has been week our share there has been pretty good and rising but that doesnt offset a weaker industry.
Europe has been flat to slightly up for us which I think is a surprise to a lot of people but again you kind of have to think back to where its come from and how low it got.
My comment about U.S.
not being back to peak goes even more so for Europe there is a lot of room for Europe I think to improve; they can ever get economic growth kicked back in there.
So thats a little bit of a rundown to the world.
Hi Eli its Doug.
I want to talk about the Tier 4 that you eluded to also and there is  were in the throes of 2014-15 by the end of 15 virtually all construction equipment will have been will be Tier 4 final compliant.
And as we go through that were about halfway done maybe a little bit more than that right now in terms of individual models.
That has as we phase out of Tier 4 interim and phase into Tier 4 final and again its depending on horsepower size or kilowatt class that has doubled kind of the degree of difficulty in some of those assembly lines certainly around implementation.
And were seeing some of that availability go out you mentioned you heard that from dealers.
I do too.
I would expect that to continue for a little bit more but all of our product managers are all over it and I suspect by time were done with Tier 4 final by the end of next year not before this will work its way through as well.
Were really happy by the way with our Tier 4 final machines that are out there a lot of them are running up a lot of hours and doing very very well in the marketplace.
So I assume as we work through this is kind of bubble of introductions I think well like what we see but its a bit of challenge right now youre right.
Thank you very much well take our next question from Andrew Casey please announce your affiliation and post your question.
A couple of questions.
First on E&amp;T margin performance Q3 obviously very strong at 20.1%.
You talked about volume helping the quarter and then a negative mix going forward into Q4 because of the electric power contract.
I'm just trying to understand how to handicap the impact of presumably lower US locomotive sales in 2015 on mix.
Was there a positive mix in Q3 or was it all due to volume?  Well there are several questions wrapped in there if we take locomotives specifically no doubt next year is going to be lower but that would if you just looking at locomotives that would actually be up positive for mix the margin of locomotive would be not the same as the segment average.
So no I dont think that would not have a negative mix impact next year.
In fact big sales of that in the fourth quarter would likely have would be another reason that fourth quarter mix might be a little weaker.
I think its probably a good time to kind of take that whole rail sector and kind of frame a bit how it could impact next year.
Our view at least at this point is that certainly locomotive sales will be down but remember our rail sector that industry our business there has more than just new locomotives.
We have a very large service business and then we have a pretty sizable parts business for locomotives and we have a healthy international business that we expect to be up actually next year.
So overall our view is that rail will have a negative but probably less than 2% impact on energy and transportation next year hope that helps.
It does Mike.
Thank you.
And then if I could ask another question within E&amp;T.
There has been a lot of concern about some recent changes in commodity prices as it relates to oil.
Could you kind of comment on maybe what percent of revenue is exposed to upstream production for oil and nat gas and then is there any point at which oil prices may start to impact demand? Thanks.
Yes thats a good question Andy I know thats certainly been on everyones mind with whats happened to oil prices over the last two weeks.
And certainly lower oil prices on a particular help theyre about where they were right now couple of years ago and our business didnt fall apart two years ago in oil and gas.
So while its not a big positive we dont think its going to be a significant negative as well at least not where its at now.
You asked a question about how low would oil prices have to go and thats always kind of the sliding question it will depend a lot on where they were how long they stay its a very difficult question to answer.
I cant say that were at now kind of where we have been over the last not last year but a couple of years ago we were down at this level and again it wasnt all that negative.
Remember the majority of our oil and gas business is gas compression and oil and gas production transformation.
So production is a big driver in our business.
Also particularly for our turbine business it tends to be pretty long term.
The kind of projects that our customers are doing are big many of them multibillion dollar projects that go several years most of those big oil companies they understand that there are short-term fluctuations in price and those big investment projects that they have in-flight which would effectively be in our backlog at the moment.
They generally dont change those based on short-term fluctuation.
So all in all I would say we like to see a little higher oil price but kind of where is at now we dont see it having a big negative impact.
One other just minor point maybe around that and that is the dividend that could play through potentially in other parts of the business.
When oil prices are down there is usually a pretty direct consumer impact of that purchasing gasoline and lower price of oil leads to a lower pump price which puts a little more money in everybodys pocket.
So maybe that would be helpful for the economy overall.
I just want to add here its Doug here again.
We are obviously watching oil and gas prices very closely.
We are talking to trying to stay close to our customers on this and what theyre saying and I think youre seeing their quarterly announcements come out and generally the feedback weve been getting that say 80 to 90 somewhere in there on a sustain basis.
Certainly well take that really educated top half of it but there is plenty of room for reinvestment like Mike said its still where it was a couple of years ago.
I think you see low 70s on a sustain basis there would be a chill cross the market and Id say gas coming down below three substantially on a sustain basis may do that as well.
The other wildcard here that were really anxious about and looking forward to is Mexico opening and that the oil and gas industry there is about to go over carefully that will.
Theyve passed laws down there; theyve made changes in the industry.
Thats going to go at almost any oil or gas price.
So there is so many moving parts on this all over the world that is just hard to predict but U.S.
mid-80s we think is on a sustainable level we can all live with.
Thank you very much.
Well take our next question from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Good morning.
I think just following up on that theme one of the things that Komatsu has said recently and not to quote a competitor but Id be interested in your comments on it is that a lot of their construction equipment is being supported by domestic oil and gas also.
Can you talk about that a little bit Doug and then what indirect impact might that have if oil prices were to fall to the low 70s?  Yes sure and I think thats right we do see weve seen everything from pad preparation to road building around all the shale zones in the country and that has impacted to some degree our construction equipment I dont think its probably going to move the needle I dont think its material but it would certainly impact at a little bit in our case.
Again we get down to low 70s a lot of best were going to change on a lot of things and there is no doubt that would be impacted to some degree I would agree with that.
So in your view Doug and most of the increase in construction equipment plans you're seeing now in the U.S.
are pure resi and non-resi construction-driven?  I would say yes its across the table I mean across the board yes yes.
Okay.
Certainly the fracing site preparation has been a help but boy were seeing kind of across the board steady growth lower than we like but steady growth in the other businesses as well for construction equipment.
Okay thank you.
Just a clarification on your outlook for 2015.
You said in the US you were hopeful that we would get a Highway Bill.
Is that included in your outlook or would that be upside to your outlook?  I dont know if I said I was hopeful but I said it could be upside but there is a possibility and it depends on a lot things in congress.
I think in terms of India were definitely going to see infrastructure spending increase at a significant rate.
We mentioned Turkey in the right up Im also optimistic in Brazil although there is election there at this weekend but both candidates both parties are talking about reflecting the economy and Brazil is always used infrastructure as a way to do that.
In our case we could see some kind of either a steady extension of what were doing or a bit up as congress prices stimulate the economy or do what they do but I wouldnt say Im hopeful but it could happen I put it that way.
Yes and I made the comment a few minutes ago and I think thereve been a lot of elections this year I mean one of the U.S.
is coming out so hopefully well have a window where the government can work together to make some progress before the next election.
In a lame-duck session indeed.
No I dont think it would happen in the lame-duck although anything can happen but I would say its more going into post-election in 2015 as maybe there is some consensus to try to get after job creation grow the economy faster that could push on some element of tax reform a little bit and infrastructure those would be the two things that have an outside chance of something happening but bigger than right now but Im not going to call it is going to happen.
Back to your regional point and were not counting on a big upswing as a result of that no.
Thank you very much well take our next question from Seth Weber please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Mike it sounds like you bumped up your restructuring cost expense a little bit this year to $450 million from $400 million.
And it sounds like that's targeted at the mining the Resource business.
Can you give us any color on the incremental details or where you're stepping up the spending there?  Yes actually I wont point anyone thing we start the year by paying $400 million to $500 million and some of the projects we understood very specifically some were being studied and that was the reason we had a range in other words  that we might do some of that we might not do.
Last quarter our estimate was closer to 400 so we kind of revised it down a little bit that estimate right now is closer to 450 so there are a couple of more things that were doing none of them are material none of them would we want to fall out separately but the only thing weve talked about separately that individually is pretty material is the European restructuring we did in construction.
So again we started out the year saying 400 to 500 and I think were going to basically come in there.
But just to clarify the vast majority of that is not resource industries or mining -- and around the construction equipment business.
In fact resource industries restructuring in 2014 of the 450s one of the smaller pieces.
Okay thanks for that clarification.
And then just on the performance of the business I think you called out the mining -- the aftermarket parts sales were down.
Could you talk about any color on the aftermarket order activity in the Resource business?  For us sales and orders are pretty much the same thing we turn around parts orders usually and about 24 hours so there is no significant backlog there.
So one is about the same as the other.
For the company overall part sales were positive and I think seem to be starting to build some momentum and thats a good thing.
Mining is still I would say weak and really not much change one way or the other.
Did you see any pickup sequentially in orders aftermarket orders?  No we did not.
Thank you very much.
Well take our next question from Stephen Volkmann.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
And Id actually like to go back.
Doug you were just talking about the restructuring that was mostly done in construction.
And I guess I was under the impression certainly that the first half of 2014 construction margins were probably over earning a little bit.
You guys built a fair amount of inventory I think.
And so I guess I had assumed that those numbers were sort of not something I should think about as we move forward and yet there is a fair amount of restructuring going on here.
I guess Im just having trouble trying to parse out how much of the restructuring has sort of permanently improved those construction margins and how much you had temporary things going on in 2014?  Ill answer that this is Mike.
So were talking about construction here.
Yes.
So in 2014 I think this is maybe an odd way to say it but I think construction is a little bit and this is probably not the right choice or words but more back to normal.
If you go back to starting in late 12 and throughout much of 13 in construction we were reducing inventory both ours and dealers and that had negative impacts on production it was made price realization tougher.
So I think 2013 was very tough year for construction because of that.
So and I think this year if you look at dealer inventory changes I mean there have been changes by quarter but by in large theyre likely to end the year about where they started.
Production levels are kind of matching demand in other words and have been pretty stable.
So that the point that Doug made earlier thats really help efficiency and we dont have kind of the downward changes if you will.
And in fact you see part of that there are price realization this quarter versus a year ago.
I think in terms of the restructuring charges there is a little bit of benefit in this year again much of it is around restructuring our Belgium facility and some of the benefits are in this year and more will be added in next year a bit and then after.
So I think there is more to come in terms of restructuring benefits for construction.
Okay great.
Thats helpful.
And then can you just update us Mike I thought I remember you were going to try to reduce inventories in construction maybe it was more broad than that but something like 800 million this quarter and in Q4 and it looks like maybe you didnt quite get there.
Can you just talk about how you feel about all that?  Yes again this goes back.
What were talking about here is dealer inventory last quarter we said we thought that dealer inventory was going to come down somewhere around 800 million and this quarter dealer inventory went down 600 million.
I would call that given your ability to forecast that all the moving parts of that side actually pretty good I think its directionally what we thought it was going to be but I think the fourth quarter is probably going to be directionally what we thought it would be.
And its a couple of things part of it seasonality construction adds to inventory.
If you think about the Northern Hemisphere where youre in winter not a lot of activity going on then and so we tend to produce more and dealers tend to stock up.
You can kind of smooth load things a little bit better and then it gets old throughout the rest of the year.
Thats pretty common thats happen this year.
Weve had absolute reductions that I wouldnt call seasonal in mining and that has continued although the reductions are little bit maybe less than they were a year ago that dealer inventory is coming down and its at a pretty low level right now.
If I look at dealer inventory overall I would say its in pretty borrowing the seasonal changes that occur.
And I would its in pretty good shape.
We do not have a dealer inventory problem for say.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Well take our next question from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
The question is on oil and gas the order book.
Can you give us some feel for where the order book is year-over-year and how far does it extend into 2015? And also how are you extrapolating that order book when you lay out your 2015 sales guidance?  Yes okay David.
So I would say overall and this is one of the industries where we actually do have a little bit better visibility than say construction where relative to sales that order book is usually a little less.
It turns over quicker.
Id say its pretty healthy and in fact if you look at solar its not its actually roughly where it was a year ago its not changed much during the year if you look at the rest of energy and transportation in the reciprocating engine piece of it its up we had a nice increase in the third quarter and Id say its pretty healthy levels.
When we forecast next year we dont just look at the backlog and forecast forward its more like were out there trying to figure out what we think will actually happen in terms of sales then we use the backlog as maybe kind of a reality check to see if that makes sense.
So I would say for energy and transportation we still have a pretty good backlog.
And to be clear though oil and gas within E&amp;T was my questions.
So can I take that reciprocating comment as similar to what you have in oil and gas up on recip and flat on solar?  So what I would  I gave you a solar because thats mostly oil and gas.
The recip -- factories we build engines they get sold into different application.
So the data that I see around backlog is around product not end market necessarily.
So but I would tell you I think anecdotally a lot of the strength has actually been oil and gas.
Okay.
And then lastly on the puts and takes for 2015 I know we're not giving an earnings guidance but just trying to think of the moving parts things we've said in the past.
Do they still stand for restructuring savings for next year? Any carryover or incremental benefits from repo the short-term incentive comp? I know you bumped it up to $1.3 billion today for this year.
Just trying to think about those puts and takes and maybe a comment on pension.
Just something to frame the puts and takes for the 2015 earnings model.
David this is Brad Halverson Ill take a shot at this without giving you guidance for 2015 but try to tell you how we think about it internally.
We remain very committed to our flow through target and operating profit of 25% and the way up and 25 to 30 in the way down.
Weve demonstrated that demonstrated it as well this year with our proxy bidding up year-to-date with sales being down and thats driving focus across all of the units in terms of restructuring lean I would say also improve [Technical Difficulty].
David we lost the line again were not sure why Im not sure how far we --.
Brad if you can hear me I basically -- you started to talk about a little bit beyond the comment of incremental is 25% on the way up 25% to 30% on the way down and just how the segments (multiple speakers).
Yes I was just trying to give you a flavor of how were looking at it without giving guidance and if I repeat something well just do that since were starting over here but yes we talked a little bit about being nimble earlier somebody made the comment we feel that internally and we think its driving kind of our flexible cost structure is driving our delivery around incremental and decrementals again were happy that profit is up with sales actually being down on a year-to-date basis.
And so its driving a lean initiative its driving the restructuring efforts division by division and its driving I would say pretty strong supplier collaboration as we look to improve our margins and so if we look out to next year we have targets across each of our segments for incremental and decremental margins.
If we were to get some sales growth next year as we said sales could be flat upside assuming we get some sales growth.
We remain committed to that 25% incremental pull through.
I think the other question here color about pension and we wouldnt see much of a change in pension year-over-year in terms of our pension cost.
Obviously flat sales or sales don't move up or down much incrementals are a little less telling.
It's a law of small numbers.
So I think what we are just trying to figure out -- we used to speak of restructuring savings over time being $400 million to $500 million with -- a lot of the savings after 2015 would be significant but even 2014 I think we used to speak of maybe a couple hundred million of savings trying to think what that number could be in savings for next year again trying to think through the repo.
And we can all make our own projections around sales but we're just trying to think of non-volume sensitive items.
Yes I think in terms of kind of giving more guidance again.
If you look at this year and you look at our original outlook again weve been certainly surprised with some operational items particularly our margin and weve also been helped in last quarter by currency but I think clearly at an operational basis were really happy with where our margins are relative to flat sales and we see them moving forward we see to be absolutely committed to the 25% growth which we think is a pretty good number.
All right.
I appreciate the non-answer.
Were not trying to be tricky on profit we just didnt make a profit outlook and we trying to really hard to give all the pieces that make a profit outlook for next year that doesnt mean that its terrible that doesnt mean its great it just means that we didnt get an outlook.
But can you at least -- the one thing though the restructuring savings that we used to speak to 400 million to 500 million by exiting 15 how much of those savings do you think you will have captured in 14 and at least some concept of 15 just on that one item?  I suspect well talk more about that in January.
We have savings in 14 and well certainly have more in 15.
Thank you very much.
Well take our next question from Steven Fisher.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Can you guys talk about how the rental channel is influencing your construction sales in 2014 and how do you see that in 2015? And I guess how is demand in construction outside the rental channel?  Well thats a good question.
Actually rental has been affecting the business I would say increasingly for I dont know 10 15 years.
And particularly when times are more uncertain customers have the tendency to rent more.
Remember we tend to not sell through rental houses we sell the CAT dealers who are in the rental business.
And weve had particularly in the U.S.
weve had positive sales through the rental channel and positive sales through the end user owner channel I dont think there is anything out there that is driving a big structural change that impacted 14 or that will drive a big directional change in 15.
But I think it is true that as customers get more and more focused on asset utilization the rental channel can be more attractive.
Thats why were big time in the rental business.
Its a key element of the across the table initiative I mean its a definite part of the channel here to say.
Okay so both channels sound like they are up this year is that right?  Yes.
Well the North America.
Right sure.
And then Mike you mentioned a lot of room for growth in European construction.
How do you feel about the visibility of European construction right now? Is your base case for next year that thats maybe flat?  Yes when you look at construction and I kind of touched on this a little bit ago.
There are two parts of the business parts for example where we have little to no backlog because we get an order we ship we get an order we ship it.
So its not the kind of thing that lands to a lot of visibility based on a backlog.
Then construction is a little bit like that to generally when our customer or a dealer orders kind of on average they get it in a few months.
So the backlog isnt quite like it would be for maybe a big turbine or a big mining truck.
So again I would say construction we forecast based on what we think is going to happen economically where the market is relative to replacements we look at where dealer inventory and were taking a lot of factors backlog and short-term visibility dont play into construction or part sales that all as much as they do in some of the other parts.
So I guess bottom line it was a long-winded answer to say within construction its normal not to have a lot of concrete visibility to a backlog.
So the baseline probably would be about flat is your expectation for next year in Europe?  I think thats the case for all of our -- I mean this is worldwide comment but for all of our segments.
We said flat to slightly up next year and we dont see either energy or transportation construction or resource industries being kind of far from that.
It looks pretty flat up a little for much of the business.
All right.
We are at top of the hour so well sign-off.
Thank you very much for joining us on the conference call today.
Well talk to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays presentation.
You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Year End Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
Now Id like to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone and welcome to our year end conference call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Finance Services.
On the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A or Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of 2014 and with our 10-Q filed with the SEC in August of 2014.
And its also in the forward-looking statements language in todays release.
In addition to that there is a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures and that can also be found in our financial release which again is on our caterpillar.com website.
Okay with that let's get started.
In this morning we'll be reviewing our financial results for the quarter for the full year of 2014 and well spend some time on our 2015 outlook.
Now as I do each of those I just want to go through the major themes right now.
For the quarter sales were about as expected but we were disappointed with lower profit in the quarter than our outlook.
The significant decline in inventory in the quarter more so than we anticipated was a large contributing factor to that.
For the full year of 2014 the major theme continues to be around execution and better profit per share than 2013 and the outlook that we started the year with.
Were pleased with what we've accomplished in 2014 given the continued weak economic conditions in most of the world and the declining commodity prices.
Now for the 2015 outlook well it's shaping up to be a much tougher year than we were expecting when we went through our preliminary view of 2015 with you all last October.
It's been definitely a developing story as oil prices have continued to decline.
No doubt it will be a major topic of discussion when we get to the QA in a few minutes.
With that quick recap of the theme let's start with the review of the fourth quarter.
Sales and revenues were $14.2 billion and that was close to last year actually down about 1% from $14.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Profit per share all-in was $1.23 and $1.35 excluding restructuring costs.
And that's down from a $1.54 all-in and a $1.68 excluding restructuring costs in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Quarter-to-quarter restructuring costs were a little lower in 2014 about $100 million in the fourth quarter versus about $130 million in Q4 of 2013.
So not a lot of change there.
Excluding restructuring costs profit per share from the fourth quarter of the year ago to this fourth quarter declined $0.33 and there were several things that contributed to the lower profit.
First we had an absence of several favorable items from the fourth quarter of 2013.
We had $115 million of LIFO benefits in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We had a favorable legal settlement that was close to $70 million.
We had gains on the sales securities and currency gains in our financial products segments.
And in the fourth quarter of 2013 financial products also had a favorable adjustment to their allowance.
Now they had another favorable allowance in 2014 but it was quite a bit less.
Now in addition to the absence of those favorable items we also had higher employee incentive compensation that was about $110 million up in the quarter and that was because our incentive compensation metrics for the full year turned out better than we expected when we set them at the beginning of the year.
Excluding incentive compensation SG&amp;A [R&amp;D] [ph] combined were up in the quarter but were down for the full year.
While R&amp;D was about flat for 2014 we'll talk about this in a bit and the outlook that we are expecting have some increase in 2015.
We also had unfavorable inventory absorption in the quarter and that's a result of a more significant inventory reduction in the fourth quarter of 2014 than the fourth quarter of 2013.
Now we also had some positives in the quarter.
Income tax versus Q4 of 2013 was positive about $0.11 per share material costs were favorable and price realization while up less than 1% was a small positive.
Profit per share also benefited from a lower share account and that was a result of share repurchases in 2014.
So that's the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2013.
Let's take a look at how we did versus the outlook.
And we ended nearly spot on with sales and revenues but profit per share was $0.12 lower than the outlook that we provided last October.
We did have one positive item in the quarter and that was the passage of the tax extenders.
The major 2014 benefit for us was the R&amp;D tax credit included in that.
More than offsetting in the favorable tax we had some negatives.
The most significant being the impact of negative inventory absorption.
We were expecting a small inventory reduction in the fourth quarter and we actually ended up taking inventory down $1.1 billion.
That resulted in a substantial cost absorption headwind versus our outlook.
While it was a hit to profit we want lower inventory we've been working to reduce it and were happy to have it lower.
Now in addition price realization and sales mix were not quite as positive as we had expected and we had modest hedging losses.
None of those were what I would describe as major and all on their own but they all kind of where in the same direction.
When you forecast you almost never get everything right and even when youre close in total there are always puts and takes.
In the fourth quarter other than the R&amp;D tax credit most of the elements of our forecast went the other way.
In summary Q4 was right on with sales.
We had a major reduction in inventory and we like that but it continued to lower than expected profit.
Okay that's a quick one through the fourth quarter versus the outlook.
And before we get into the 2015 outlook I would just like to do a quick recap of the full year 2014 and to help put it in perspective I'm going to back in time a little bit to 2012 to set the stage.
In 2012 that was before the substantial decline in mining our sales and revenues were about $66 billion.
And as we ended 2012 we expected 2013 to be down because of mining and we got that in a lot more than we expected.
We revised 2013 down every quarter in 2013 looking for a bottom in mining.
We ended 2013 with sales down $10 billion from 2012.
At the end of 2013 we would have liked to predict the sales increase and recovery in 2014 but we started with the view but that wasn't in the cards for 2014 with mining remaining weak and the global economy continuing with the lower par growth.
We expected as a result 2014 sales to be about flat for 2013.
And thats actually about what happened.
The bad news is weren't surprised by a large rebound in the global economy the good news is we called it pretty close to what happened and didnt get surprised with continuing bad news.
As we started 2014 we were expecting a relatively flat top line and relatively flat profit per share excluding restructuring costs.
We accomplished that in a bit more.
Excluding restructuring profit per share was $6.38 and that's up from 597 in 2013 again excluding restructuring.
And it was better than our original outlook at 585.
We also did better than we expected with operating cash flow.
Our machinery energy and transportation operating cash flow was $7.5 billion.
In 2014 in fact two of the best three years we've ever had were 2013 and 2014.
That helped to enable us repurchase $2 billion of Caterpillar stock in 2013 and another $4.2 billion in 2014 and it helped us - help set us up for increases in the dividend.
We took the dividend up 15% in 2013 and 17% in 2014.
Now in addition to the financial performance we improved inventory terms in 2014.
We improved our market position for CAT machines as well in fact it was our fourth consecutive year.
And weve done that by holding price realization low.
2014 was another year well below 1% and we've done it by providing customers with great products.
While our Tier 4 introductions aren't over we are very pleased with what's been introduced so far and customer and dealer feedback has been positive.
Quality is also helping.
In 2014 it was the fourth consecutive year that the quality of the machines that we delivered to our customers has improved.
I already mentioned better inventory terms and that was great.
Were on a Lean journey and certainly we have more room to improve there.
I'll end up this recap of 2014 with safety and we probably don't really talk enough about it but it really is a high priority.
And for the last decade we've made steady progress on improving safety and I'm happy to say that improvement continued in 2014.
So all-in-all fourth quarter profit was disappointing but 2014 overall was a pretty good year financially particularly considering the economic and industry dynamics we had to work with.
Okay with that let's go through the 2015 outlook.
As I'm sure you picked up from our financial release this morning we are more negative on prospects for 2015 than we were three month ago when we provided you with our preliminary view of 2015 sales and revenues.
In recent weeks with commodity price declines our view of 2015 has certainly been a work in progress and we've just recently finalized the outlook.
Back in October we expected sales and revenues with the flat to slightly up.
Our current view is that sales and revenues will be about 50 million and that's down over 9% from 2014.
Without a doubt the impact of substantially lower oil and gas prices is the most significant reason we're expecting lower sales in 2015.
From mid-October to today oil prices have dropped from the mid-80s to the high 40s and that's off prices that were around 100 for most of the first half of last year.
With the oil this low we expect substantial reductions in producers CapEx and that it will be negative for our sales.
Now I'm going to take a minute to put what we do in our oil and gas into some perspective for you.
Most of our oil and gas related sales are in our energy and transportation segment.
And to scale that a bit in 2014 about a third of energy and transportation 22 billion in sales were directly related to oil and gas.
The oil and gas exposure is however diverse.
They're on the front-end with engines for drilling engines transmission and pressure pumps for well servicing.
We have engines that go into compressor sets for gas gathering weve engines and turbines that move oil and gas along the pipeline.
And our turbines are used extensively on offshore production pipelines.
Now in addition to those direct exposures in energy and transportation there are some indirect exposures that are real but a little more difficult to put a specific number on.
For example we saw marine engines and some go into vessels that service offshore oil and gas platforms on the rail business with services and locomotives and oil transport has become an increasing business for our rail customers.
In terms of the 2015 outlook we believe the direct part of oil and gas that will be hurt the earliest and most significantly will be drilling and well servicing particularly in the second half of the year.
At this point because of the scale and long term nature of projects to use turbines we dont expect much impact there in 2015.
However if oil and gas prices stay this depressed throughout 2015 there could be a negative impact for the turbine business after 2015.
So those are the most direct impacts.
Now there are other indirect impacts from substantially lower prices that we think can play in 2015.
In countries and in fact in some areas of the U.S.
where oil production is significant for government entities and local economies it will likely be a negative for the sales of construction equipment and our electric power generation business.
In some cases it can be fairly direct like building roads to service new wells or it can be very indirect like construction spending in a country where the government relies on oil revenue to fund government spending.
Order of magnitude roughly half of our expected year-over-year decline in sales is from these - both direct and indirect impacts from the fairly dramatic decline in oil prices.
Now in addition to the impact of oil and gas there are several other factors that are contributing to the decline in the sales and revenues outlook.
Year-over-year we expect the stronger dollar to be a sales headwind.
Commodity prices in mining have also taken another leg down over the past few months.
For example when we provided our preliminary outlook last October copper was still over $3 account.
Today it's in the mid $250.
Order rates for our resource industry segment have been reasonably stable at low level.
But the continued decline in commodity prices and continued efficiency improvements by our mining customers have caused us to lower our sales estimate for resource industries in 2015.
With weakness in agriculture were also expecting lower sales of industrial engines and we expect our rail business to be down in 2015 after a great year in 2014.
Now that's not a new development we anticipated that and discussed that last October.
And our expectation for the construction industry in China is also lower.
Our sales over the past year have held up better in China than the industry overall but with lower expectations for China construction we think our 2015 sales in China will be down.
Okay that's a run through of 2015 sales the direct and some of the indirect impacts from dramatically lower oil lower mining sales or stronger dollar lower sales in our rail business and weakness in construction outside the U.S.
including China.
So let's shift over to profit.
Were expecting 460 a share all-in for 2015 and 475 excluding restructuring.
Were expecting to continue with restructuring actions in 2015 but with less cost than 2014.
In 2014 restructuring costs were $441 million and were expecting around another $150 million in 2015.
Now excluding the restructuring profit per share was expected to decline from 638 to 475.
And thats a drop of about $1.63.
Im going to through the headwinds and tailwinds in a moment but before I do that I'd just like to put a drop and profit in perspective with the sales.
Much of the sales change between 2014 and 2015 is related to oil and gas and mining.
And those are two areas with higher than average variable margins.
Despite that our $4.75 per share profit outlook again excluding restructuring reflects the decremental operating margin close to 25% and the impact of the higher tax rate that's mostly because the R&amp;D tax credit wasn't extended past 2014.
Now our target range for decremental operating margin is 25% to 30% and our 2015 has us closer to the bottom end of that which is good.
But as you might expect there are plenty of pluses and minuses that go into that.
On the positive side we expect lower incentive compensation in 2015.
In 2014 incentive compensation was higher than target and that's because we exceeded our incentive metrics that we've set earlier in the year.
We're expecting variable manufacturing cost to be favorable in 2015.
And that's a result of our continuing work to remove costs and improve efficiency and lower material costs.
Now this might be counterintuitive for some but the stronger dollar was negative for our sales is positive for costs overall and that's because of our non-US operations and our material purchases outside the U.S.
and overall that's expected to be a positive for profit.
And we're planning another small but positive contribution from price realization.
Were expecting an increase of less than half a percent.
Now the headwinds to 2015 profit include higher R&amp;D expense.
Now for the company in total Im going back a couple of years here again.
For the company in total we lowered R&amp;D 17% in 2013 from 2012 and that was in response to the decline in sales.
Now excluding the impact of incentive compensation R&amp;D remained at about that level in 2014.
In 2015 were planning to increase R&amp;D.
Were in a very competitive and changing world and products and services do matter.
We understand the need for profit in a short term but we also need to invest in the future and that's the main reason R&amp;D is increasing.
It's primarily for new and updated products and more work on new technologies that have applications across the company.
In addition to R&amp;D cost absorption from lower inventory is also expected to be a headwind.
With the decline in sales we expect more inventory reduction in 2015 than we had in 2014.
And while that's a positive for cash flow it will have a negative impact on costs.
And as I mentioned a minute ago with a greater proportion of our expected decline in sales occurring in the higher margin products we anticipate an unfavorable mixed impact from sales on our operating module.
We also have higher pension expense for our defined benefit plans and that's a result of lower interest rates at the end of 2015 and an revision in the estimate of lifespans for the folks in our plans.
Okay that's a run through of what we expect for 2015.
The bottom line for us is - in our business is that it has been and continues to be a tough environment for many in the industries that we're in.
Mining is weak and operating below what we think a normal level is and far below the prior peak.
From an industry volume standpoint North American construction was better than it was a couple years ago there is still about 15% below the prior peak.
Europe is about over 40% of its prior peak and China is still 60% of its prior peak.
So we aim to grow in all those areas.
Energy and transportation it's a diverse business serving oil and gas transportation power generation and industrial applications.
It's been a great business for us and were expecting another good year in 2015.
It will be good but not quiet as good as 2014.
Based on our outlook for 2015 sales and revenues 2015 is going to be our third consecutive year of sales decline.
And to put that in some perspective that's happened only one other time in the history of our company and that was during the great depression in 1930 1931 and 1932.
Overall we think we have done pretty well with the economic and industry climate we have to work with.
We have improved our market position and our operations but we would certainly like to see a better global economy.
So that's it.
And with that we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Your line is live.
Good morning guys.
Mike I think you did a good job on the puts and takes of the 2015 profit guidance but let me push you a little bit here.
Like you talked about being in the range that you usually have 25% to 30% decrementals; but you are enjoying that $400 million tailwind from stock comp expense.
We've talked about restructuring benefits starting to ramp up in 2015 and I'm not sure how much that's going to help.
Then obviously you mentioned the stronger dollar helping you.
I know you've talked about mix and I know you've talked about inventory destocking.
But maybe you could quantify something like inventory destocking or -- what I'm really trying to figure out Mike is if there is an element of conservatism at all in this guidance.
You know we try to be prudent.
There are always upsides and downsides in the forecast.
We always attempt to try if we can to pick up middle reasonable ground.
You did pick out currency as a modest positive and you are right the incentive comp is positive as well.
But - and on the restructuring we do expect favorable variable cost next year and above and beyond just material cost.
So we do have some improvement baked in for that.
But we do have again I am just a little bit repeating what you said.
Mix is negative.
We've got a $5 billion decline in sales and that is I think - between that and the continuation of our Lean journey we are likely to take inventory down more next year and we have somewhere around 15% to 18% negative hit to profit from cost absorption on that.
So that's going to be negative for the year.
R&amp;D is probably not going to be quite back to the 2012 levels but we do need to fund some more.
We've got a ton of exciting programs for the future that we need to get on with now and so weve planned to do some funding of that.
So it - again the two tailwinds are step and the incentive compensation in a little bit from currency to the bottom line.
Okay Mike.
I dont feel like I added a lot more for you there but Is it possible to quantify restructuring benefit that you expect? You've given us in the past is it possible to quantify that? For next year 2015.
Actually after this last decline in volume for us we are reworking the detailed plans but before that we were looking at somewhere around - increment of somewhere around $100 million.
Okay.
Then just shifting gears can you give us more color on construction global construction demand in general? At least what's baked into your forecast in 2015? Do you believe North American construction will be up in 2015? Or at least what's in your guidance for that geography.
So if we look at sales for construction we just talked about it generically regionally.
We are looking to be up in the U.S.
next year North America mostly the U.S.
Probably a little less than we thought before the oil price dropped.
So we are looking ahead.
There is some headwinds in the oil producing areas Texas South Dakota Pennsylvania.
So U.S.
is still a positive but probably not quite as positive as we thought before.
Almost everyplace else in the world to some degree negative.
We are still not getting any decent economic growth in Europe.
The developing countries Brazil China are still lets just say challenged.
We are actually expecting a little bit lower GDP growth in China next year than we had in  or in 2015 than we had in 2014.
So we are looking for the - outside the U.S.
construction to be weak.
We also have quite a bit of the sales impact from the stronger dollar showing up in construction as well.
So it will bear most of the brunt of that.
Weve taken a stab at trying to estimate the impact of lower oil in the oil producing regions.
I will say that that's probably - that's tough to forecast.
We dont exactly know what the Saudis the Nigerians are going to do but just using those two oil exporting countries as an example.
There are certainly many more.
We dont exactly know what they are going to do but weve taken our best shot.
So weve taken sales out of those regions as well.
But I think if you were to combine it into kind of nutshell we are looking down 5% to 10%.
Currency is a chunk of that outside the U.S.
generally.
Oil producing regions weaker U.S.
not including oil is stronger.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
We will take our next question from Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is live.
Yes thanks guys good morning.
Maybe just starting a little bit with oil I'm just curious what exactly you are hearing from your customers.
I think if we looked back to 2010 it took several quarters for this impact to start bleeding through to your results.
So I'm just curious how soon we'll start to see the weakness come through both in your retail sales and in Cat's reported results.
Yeah thats actually a great question Nicole because if you look at the 2014 fourth quarter or December even retail sales statistics oil and gas was still pretty strong and it will probably continue that way for a while.
I mean we are selling out of the backlog.
So what we will be seeing first is  and we are actually starting to see it now.
So I guess this is what we are hearing from customers is a decline in order rates for oil and gas.
It probably wont show up in our sales for at least a quarter maybe a bit more than a quarter in the second half of the year particularly for re-step engines piston-based engines for drilling and well servicing.
Our sales are likely to fall off quite dramatically for that kind of product in this  certainly in the second half of the year.
Okay got it.
That makes sense.
Then I guess maybe a somewhat philosophical question.
How much does a strong US dollar concern Cat generally given that you have such a strong base of sales in international markets? And to that point are you seeing increased competitive intensity yet from Japanese or European OEMs? That's a great question too.
So generically what weve done over the last I dont know 30 years basically is try to diversify our cost base to try to help it match up a little bit better with sales.
If you take 2015 for example the stronger dollar as we convert all those sales from local currencies around the world and the dollars is going to translate into fewer dollars the flipside of that is we have substantial manufacturing operations outside the U.S.
and that largely mitigates the profit impact.
So we have in the case of stronger dollar a decent sizeable negative impact on sales with a positive impact on cost.
Usually its not too big of an impact one way or the other on profit although it can depend on which currency moves and how much.
Yeah.
It's Doug Oberhelman here.
I will just add a little bit broader perspective on that thing.
Rising dollar and I will expect that 2015 would see more of that will not be good for U.S.
manufacturing nor the U.S.
economy.
How that is offset against the lower oil diesel gasoline price I dont know how it worked out but certainly anybody producing in Japan the U.K.
or Europe particularly Germany is going to have it has had quite an advantage over their American competitors and I would expect that they have an impact on the U.S.
in some way.
We worked hard to as Mike said diversify our manufacturing footprint.
We are large exporters and have a large cost base in Japan Europe U.K.
as well as we are taking advantage of that as you mentioned works its way through to the bottom line.
But overall I think its a very good positive for U.S.
manufacturing unit.
The policy issue I think is concerning.
Okay great.
I really appreciate the commentary Doug and Mike.
I will pass it on.
Well take our next question from our Robert Wertheimer.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Thanks Mike.
Just wanted to follow-up on oil and gas.
Obviously you've taken a big whack to the drilling and the completions the pressure pumping.
But have you heard anything on production platforms on maintenance for solar turbines in the Gulf or in Nigeria or wherever? Have you factored any weakness in either production or maintenance into the account -- into the outlook? And if not do you expect any could develop later into 2016? I think from a service standpoint no.
We havent been hearing that.
Once the platform is up in producing we've got all that fixed cost sunk into it.
So you know its likely to continue to produce.
So no and even on turbo machinery projects not just service for solar the nature of that business is rather a long term projects.
By the time we produce a turbine the project is pretty far along.
So considering a lead times there and the kind of projects that are there you tend not to get big short term swings.
It's not like somebody is coming in and buying something out of inventory of the shelf.
So we really dont see much of an impact with solar for 2015.
But and I mentioned this a bit in my lengthy preamble that if oil prices and gas prices stay this low so large not immune its just delayed.
All right perfect.
That was very helpful Mike.
Thank you.
Then just a quick one.
It seems as though 1Q will still have some deliveries on the 3500s or whatever to the drilling and pressure pumping.
Should we assume that the back half of the year has basically almost nothing in it? I mean the fleet has grown tremendously over the last 10 years.
Maybe replacement sales continue to grow.
I'm not sure if we should consider the back half to be the bottom or not on the drilling and completion side.
And I will stop; thanks.
Yeah.
Certainly wont be the first quarter or second quarter.
It will probably start tailing off as we get towards the end of the first half.
But yeah we've had actually some cancellations so the backlog has come down.
Theres been some cancellations but that seems to have tailed off.
So we're scheduled out reasonably for the first quarter.
We think some of that is if you have a well that's getting drilled youll want to frac it.
So we think that whats in the order book here certainly for the first quarter is probably going to continue.
But orders have largely dried up for that kind of business.
So the back half of the year is going to drop a lot for the drilling and well servicing.
Probably not so much gas compression.
Its really not for the turbine projects but you know for the drilling and well servicing around oil and particular yes.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Joel Tiss.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi I'm with BMO.
Instead of beating up energy anymore I wonder if you can give us a sense of why the resource industry dealer inventory went up a little bit it sounds like in the press release.
I just wonder if you're seeing anything positive there or just what's going on.
No.
Actually dealer inventory went down.
It just didnt go down quite as much as it did in the fourth quarter of 2013.
It's a very challenged business.
If you look at order rates from customers theyve been they bounce around a little bit here and there month to month but if you look at the moving average theyve been pretty stable here recently.
But it's actually been below our sales level.
We've been selling a bit out of the backlog.
The backlog in mining is getting to a point where we just dont have the capability to continue to do that.
So in light of copper coming down around 250 iron ore prices severely depressed and coal prices down were taking a cautious view of 2014 for mining.
We were hoping that 2014 was the bottom but given everything else that is going on in the world at least our estimate of China GDP being a little lower next year than this year I think the prospects for a rebound in 2015 are just probably not there.
So that's negative.
There's also probably a small negative in there - I don't want to overplay this but we do sell into the oil sands in Canada and we think there is not a - in the scheme of next years business it's not huge but we do think there is a little bit of risk there as well.
I wonder if you can share with us the overall company OEM versus aftermarket at this point or over the course of 2015.
I think it's a fuzzed-up enough number where you wouldn't really be giving anything away but you'd help us understand the resiliency of Cat's earnings a little better.
What I would tell you is that - as we talked about this outlook change I will try to frame in a couple of different ways.
What are the causes like oil prices and that goes across the segment.
And then we try to give you a view by segment.
RI down 10% E&amp;T 10% to 15% construction 5% to 10%.
But your point about original equipment and parts is a good one.
I won't give you a complete split but I would tell you that we would expect aftermarket parts to be pretty flat next year.
With this year were not taking that down.
So the decline for the most part is coming out of new equipment.
But you can't give us any sense if it's half of the overall business or anything? No we've never done that Joel and probably not going to start today.
All right.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Ross Gilardi.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Yes good morning Bank of America.
Gentlemen I'm just comparing your comments on construction to what we were hearing from the large rental houses who are substantially more positive.
Obviously your business model is different and also for Cat Rental the fleet mix is different.
But do you think dealers are losing marketshare to the bigger rental houses who've improved their footprint are getting better at servicing the national account customers and just their overall service offerings dramatically in recent years? Anything you feel like you need to do from just a business model standpoint to deal with them? Well first off Ross I will start by saying were actually pretty constructive about U.S.
construction.
So we have U.S.
construction actually going up.
I think probably the major rental houses that youre talking about our U.S.
base are probably not feeding back what - whats going on Brazil the rest of Latin America China Europe.
So that is the - that plus currency impacts which there is also not seeing are two principle reasons that construction would be down next year.
So I think from a North American standpoint honestly I dont know what the rental houses are actually telling you in terms of volume.
But were up probably mid-single digits in North America construction despite a little headwind we think from oil.
I think the dealers are actually doing a pretty good job on rental.
It's been an increasing piece of their business.
Its a big focus that particularly in the U.S.
and Europe its how a lot of business gets done.
Its a key element of our across-the-table initiative and well probably do more.
So its a big focus.
I think if you parse out how were describing the construction around the world probably not that far off with what the rental houses are saying.
Yes okay.
I mean I realize there are big geographic differences in your overall footprint.
I was more isolating just the commentary around North America; but thanks for clarifying that.
And then given what you're saying about demand and the overall environment for Caterpillar in your various end markets what are you thinking now about capacity rationalization across your footprint right now? Should we be expecting to see some bigger facility closures as 2015 unfolds to better align supply and demand for the medium to longer term? Yeah.
You know we're -- how I say this with the right tone here? We're a cyclical company.
Our sales in these industries as we've seen by mining and certainly oil and gas go up and down.
What we try to do is manage best we can the fixed cost structure the physical bricks and mortar capacity.
You need that for when the business recovers.
So we have another $150 million in for restructuring cost in 2015 but I wouldn't say there aren't any large scale plant closures in there.
Certainly $150 million wouldn't cover that.
We have done a pretty good job on trying to flex our period cost down.
That's where we're really focused not so much on bricks and mortar.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Kwame Webb.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hello this is Kwame Webb from Morningstar.
Thanks for taking my question today.
For me on the Caterpillar Financial side I was curious to know: what are you guys thinking in terms of loss allowances for 2015? And then on a related note I'd imagine the dealers are going to help you with repositioning some used equipment.
What do dealer used inventories look like right now? Yeah.
This is Brad Halverson.
You know CAT Financial had another good year in '14.
In fact if you look at the credit metrics in '14 you'll see a positive story.
Our write-off were down our past dues moves from down to 2.17 from about 2.4 last year.
We get this question every now and then and our China business continues to form well.
Their past dues were also down.
And so we are seeing some softening in the used equipment market in the last few months mining is actually held up pretty well during the year.
We'll see how that carries forward in the next year.
But at this moment I would say that we don't have any concerns relative to our portfolio performance and past dues coming off another year of improvement and I'd say we'd pretty stable heading into '15.
And then just a follow-up on the Resources business.
There was some commentary about aftermarket sales improving and I think you guys actually said that you expect '15 aftermarket to be flat with '14.
Could you comment on what specific product lines you're seeing strength or stability? Yeah.
I mean for aftermarket just generically the rate of change is much much less cyclical than new equipments.
So even in the areas over the last -- like mining where it's been down over the last couple of years it's down much much less than the new equipment sales would be.
As we look forward to next year I would say we don't see any material changes in any other segment.
There might be a little change around the edges but nothing significant up or down by segment.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi good morning JPMorgan.
My question is around capital spending.
You're keeping your CapEx budget flat year over year; R&amp;D is going up.
Should we be a little bit concerned that Caterpillar is expecting a quick recovery in the oil business? Or can you just dig a little bit deeper into why you're holding CapEx flat? We would have expected with earnings down this much that CapEx will be down significantly also.
Hi Ann this is Brad Halverson.
May be I'll talk just a little bit about cash and I'll get to answer your question directly as well.
We talked a lot with you guys about improving our balance sheet coming out of '08.
And when we got to the end of '13 we were very happy with our balance sheet in terms of our debt to cap net debt to cap being around 17 and carrying about $6 billion in cash.
And we had another very good year $7.5 billion of operating cash flow and our CapEx was fairly well below our planned outlook for the year.
I think you'll find 1.6 being a fairly low number for us and well below what we thought in 2014.
And so we finished the year with net debt to cap around 18 and around $7 billion in cash.
And so we're very happy with where the balance sheet is.
In fact our working capital as a percent of sales as we worked on lean and other initiatives is at a record low around 12%.
So all that said is that we feel really good about where our balance sheet is positioned.
Our priorities outside of maintaining the debt rating would be growth.
And we talked a little bit earlier with Andy; we're spending a significant increase on R&amp;D in '15 over '14.
And that's a big part of how we want to deploy cash.
And of course that hits the P&amp;L.
I think CapEx around 1.6 is a reasonable number going into '15.
There is a decent amount of that.
That's a normal replacement type activity to go in our manufacturing facilities.
As you know we're fairly highly vertically integrated which creates a little high replacement kind of demand for capital.
So I would say that's fairly reasonable going into that.
You may want to ask a little bit and I'll just jump to it around deployment of cash.
And I would say that we're continuing to look for growth opportunities we're not announcing anything today but that activity remains very important to us and we're continuing to focus on that.
The energy valuations are clearly dropped and so that's something that many are looking at including us.
We're really happy with the balance sheet position.
We'll consider stock repurchase as heading to 2015.
But again those priorities remain pretty well the same for us then.
Hey Ann I think I'll just embellish one thing on what Brad said.
If you look at the CapEx that we do have a lot of NPI it's maintenance.
It's not focused around capacity.
Yeah.
Okay.
I did pick up on that.
So that's at least valuable to understand.
And then my follow-up question is getting more philosophical.
A lot of the restructuring spend that you've been doing the last few years has been in Europe to make -- to set up Europe for Europe I think is what the program was called.
Given where currencies stand now if you were embarking on that restructuring would you do anything different? If we get to parity euro versus dollar would it make sense to be keeping manufacturing in Europe? I'll comment here Ann.
It's Doug.
We had some fundamentally I would say dysfunctional and not working operations in Europe not productive not efficient that we really needed to work through.
Where we will land up when we're done there and we're closing in on that as a really lean manufacturing system and operations that are sized for that business in a euro at parity will just be a great tailwind for that.
I would point out our good notebook plan in France that we downsized makes wheeled excavators today.
It's one of the models we have in the world in terms of throughput high quality machines and lower lead time.
And so we like that and I think the currency benefit will just be kind of gravy on that.
Okay.
I'll leave it there and get back in line.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you Ann.
We'll take our next question from Vishal Shah.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Yes hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
How much of a headwind would you expect the dealer inventory to represent in 2015? And how much of that excess inventory is in oil and gas versus construction and mining? Yeah.
Good question.
In -- the majority of the inventory by far is machines the actual engine inventory is quite a bit less.
It's not that they don't have any but just in terms of scale it's quite a bit less.
We're likely to have and also embedded into our forecast for next year is further decline in dealer inventory.
So I think it's a case where we've got sales coming down $5 billion dealers try to peg their inventory around what expected sales are.
And so when sales come down they take inventory down.
And that's -- we expect that to happen next year.
So I think it will probably at least as much as we had this year.
Okay that's helpful.
Just on the E&amp;T business I know you mentioned 10% to 15% decline in sales.
As you think about the decremental margin for that business should we be assuming the decrementals to be above the 30% or 25% target in 2015? Yeah.
Again it depends on the products in E&amp;T.
I think certainly in the oil and gas area that the margins there would be above the average and so that would be negative to their decrementals.
Locomotives would probably be on - new locomotives the services businesses very profitable.
But locomotive less so there are some industrial engines as well are down.
So again thats probably a little below average on margins.
So on balance I would think that E&amp;T has it going both ways and probably not dramatic in total.
Thank you so much.
We'll take our next question from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Evercore ISI.
My question is about especially the lag of some of these adverse impacts.
I'm just trying to think of Cat's earnings power run rate exiting 2015.
I think people are just trying to figure out where 2015 sets up going into 2016.
And just seeing the lag impact can you maybe give us some cadence on how you're seeing the EPS play out for the rest of the year? It just seems like the back half of the year maybe we're looking at $2 in the back half or less; or the fourth quarter at least running below $1.
I'm just trying to make sure we understand how you see your earnings power exiting 2015 as it reflects on people's thoughts on 2016.
Good questions David.
I think forward to 2016 there are so many things that we dont yet know the answer to and I'll just give you a couple here.
One with lower oil prices its driving lower gasoline prices and that ought to be an economic stimulus from our consumer standpoint.
How that plays out in world economic growth what the actions with the ECB are taking how that plays into world growth whether or not China remains satisfies around seven or tries to push it up all those things right now we don't really know the answer to.
They could be positive they could be negative at this points it's hard to say on 2016.
Yes.
I'm not asking you to predict 2016.
Right now  if I could predict that we'd all retire tomorrow.
I'm just trying to figure out the idea of -- are we exiting the back half of 2015 at a $2 back half or a $1 per quarter run rate? And then however we view 2016 is predicated on how you see commodity prices through 2015.
I'm just trying to make sure we understand the earnings power run rate exiting 2015.
I think if oil and gas -- if oil prices and gas prices don't go up and were not forecasting them too.
We would have much more of a follow off in the oil and gas sales in the back half of the year which would imply more of a negative in the back half.
Well maybe just said another way the greatest sales decline in 2015 is it the fourth quarter? The EPS sets up to be the lowest for the year? I'm just trying to figure out - Probably third and fourth quarter - third and fourth quarter.
Well start exhausting the backlog of drilling and well servicing probably as sometime in the second quarter I would guess.
Okay.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
I think we have time - so we'll do one more.
We will take the last question from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliations then pose your question.
Hi I guess most of my questions have been asked.
But Doug I just don't know if you'll be willing to provide to the Street your -- I mean there's the concern the oil and gas cycle is the next mining cycle that we had.
So can you just provide your view on what that risk is and how would you manage your business differently given what we learned from mining? I would say tough question obviously.
We saw our mining lose half of its sales in our segment in  really under a year about a year.
Our energy and transportation business last year was 20 billion plus.
I would not see that happening on that scale at all because we dont have the exposure to oil and gas in that segment as we did with mining in the resource segment.
And that's probably about as far a I will go because as I said here today if we see oil and all those who were forecasting oil at $20 and those who are forecasting gas at $1.50 some forecasting higher gas and higher oil and I'm not going to make it commitment or even a forecast on that.
But what our commitment is to you all is that 25% to 30% decrement on the way down and 25% on the way up.
We've done pretty well with that.
I dont like these top line gyrations that were getting and weve seen.
But our managing of those ups and downs have been - I think pretty well in the last few years and thats what we would commit to if we have to go further down or if we get lucky and it goes up.
All right.
Thanks.
I will get back in queue.
Thank you all very much and well talk with you again at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's presentation.
You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Result Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode.
The floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you very much Dana and good morning and welcome everyone to our first quarter earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Finance Services.
And on the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman; and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
Remember this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting it in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of the factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of 2015 and its also in our forward-looking statements language in todays financial release.
In addition there is a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that can also be found in this mornings release and again its posted at caterpillar.com.
Okay with that let's get started.
This morning we'll be reviewing financial results for the first and our revised outlook for 2015.
Then there about three points that Id like to start with actually before we get into the details.
And the first is that from a macro standpoint in our view not much has changed since our last earnings conference call in January.
So we are staying pretty focused on the things that we do have some control of and thats execution and operational improvement things like safety quality market share efficiency cost control inventory turns and cash flow and we continue to make progress.
And that brings me to my second point.
Given the environment we are in we were pleased with our first quarter results.
Sales in the quarter were pretty close to what we expected and we were pleased with the bottomline.
And that brings me to my third point and thats a reminder of what we said in our year end conference call back in January.
We said that we expected the year to start out stronger than it would end and thats still what we expect and thats probably evident to you if you consider our first quarter actual results and what we are expecting for the first year.
Okay with those three points lets get into the quarter.
Sales and revenues were $12.7 billion and that was about 4% less than the $13.2 billion that we had in the first quarter last year $342 million of that decline in sales was a result of the stronger dollar and sales volume was unfavorable $295 million.
Those two items were partially offset by a small improvement in price realization that was $105 million definitely in the right direction but less than 1%.
Now the only region in the world that was up was North America and that was up 9%.
The North American improvement was pretty much across the Board in each of our -- with each of our segment being in positive territory.
Outside of North America that wasn't the case and sales in each of our segments were down in Latin America Europe Africa Middle East and in the Asia-Pacific region.
In total sales and revenues were off 18% in Latin America and sales of all of our Equipment segments thats resource industries construction industries and energy and transportation were down double digits.
Construction was off 23% and a sizable portion of that with the absence of a large order from the Brazilian Government that we had in the first quarter last year and weaker construction activity in general in the region particular Brazil.
Resource industries was also down 23% in Latin America reflecting continuing weakness in mining and that's pretty much the case in every region.
And energy and transportation was down 11%.
Sales and revenues in the Europe Africa Middle East region were down 12%.
Construction industries was off 14% and most of that was from less favorable dealer inventory changes and the impact of currency on our sales.
Resource industries was also up 14% again weak mining and energy and transportation was down 8%.
Sales and revenues in Asia Pacific were down 13% with the most significant decline in construction industries at 21%.
Construction industries were down substantially in China and lower in Japan as a result of the stronger dollar versus the yen.
Our sales in Japan which are in yen essentially translated into fewer dollars.
Okay that's a recap of sales.
Profit per share though was higher in the first quarter than it was in the first quarter a year ago.
This year it was $1.81 per share a year ago in the first quarter it was a $1.44 a share.
Now we had restructuring costs in both quarters in the first quarter of last year we had $0.17 per share of restructure costs and that was mostly from the actions that we took in our European operations.
This year we had $0.05 per share of restructuring costs in the first quarter.
So excluding restructuring profit per share improved from a $1.61 a year ago to a $1.86 in the current quarter -- the first quarter.
Now the primary reasons profit per share was up number one was the $120 million gain that we had from the sale of our remaining ownership in what was our third-party logistics business.
We also had as I mentioned a minute ago $105 million of positive price realization and we had $77 million of favorable currency impacts that helped operating profit.
I am just going to stop there for a minute and chat about currency.
It's a subject that for us seems to be frequently misunderstood not just like to clarify things again.
We do have substantial sales that are in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar.
And where the dollar strengthened that causes those sales to translate into fewer dollars not the negative for our topline.
That said we also have substantial manufacturing operations and we saw substantial purchase materials outside the U.S.
so lot of factories outside the U.S.
and lot of sourcing outside the U.S.
That results in lower costs when translated to U.S.
dollars.
That's exactly what happened this quarter.
Sales translated into fewer dollars as I mentioned a little bit ago $342 million fewer.
However the impact on costs was favorable $419 million and the net to operating profit was positive $77 million.
While we are not 100% exactly balanced in our currency exposures we do have reasonably offsetting sales and cost positions that usually keep the profit impact of exchange rate swings to a reasonably manageable level.
Okay that's the story on currency I will kind of get back to profit now.
I'd already talked about the positive items and offsetting those positives for the quarter we did have lower sales volume and that was negative to our operating profit about $83 million and we had higher costs.
The most significant cost factor was a change in the timing of expense related to the vesting of stock-based compensation.
The timing change won't have an impact on the full-year versus 2014 but it did add to cost in the first quarter.
Okay that's a quick run through of profit versus the first quarter last year.
Let's turn to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Machinery energy and transportation operating cash flow was a little over a $1 billion in the quarter but that was about $800 million lower than the first quarter last year and most of that decline came from higher incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of this year and they are based on performance in 2014.
We used about $400 million of cash in the quarter to repurchase shares and with relatively modest needs for CapEx this year.
We currently expect to continue to repurchase shares in 2015.
And as you might expect the timing and the amount that we ultimately repurchase well that will be subject to business and market conditions as we progress through the year and on our cash deployment priorities.
Our balance sheet remains strong with a debt-to-total capital ratio of 37.1%.
That's about right in the middle of our targeted 30% to 45% range and it was slightly favorable versus year-end 2014.
If you net cash with the debt our net debt to capital ratio at the end of the quarter was 18.3%.
Now before we get into the revised outlook Ill just recap changes in the order backlog over the last quarter because I suspect many of you are interested in that.
We ended the first quarter with an order backlog of $16.5 billion that's about $800 million lower than the year end 2014.
The decline was split between construction industries and resource industries.
You might have expected that energy and transportation would've also declined from year-end as a result of weakness in the oil industry.
It was in total however about flat.
We did have a decline in the backlog because of weakness in oil but that was about offset by the increase in the backlog for locomotives.
Okay with that let me go through the 2015 outlook.
As I started out in terms of overall world economic growth we don't expect much change from the outlook that we provided with our year-end results in January and the same goes for our sales and revenues.
Were holding it at about $50 billion for 2015.
Now while were not changing the sales outlook just as a reminder we do expect 2015 to be over $5 billion lower than 2014.
And as we said last January and I'll reiterate today the impact of substantially lower oil prices is the most significant reason for the decline.
And we still think the most significant impact from oil will be from engines and other equipment that we sell for drilling and well servicing and thats a spot where we expect a large drop in demand this year.
We've already started to see the impact of that in our order backlog as new orders have not kept pace with sales and the backlog has declined and well start seeing that hit sales over the course of 2015.
We also expect that indirect expense -- FX from substantially lower oil prices will be negative in 2015 versus 2014.
In countries and in some regions of the U.S.
where oil production is significant for either government receipts or for the local economies it will likely be negative for sales of construction equipment and for electric power generation business.
In some cases it can be fairly direct like building the road to service the new well or it can be very indirect like construction spending in the country where the government relies on oil revenue to fund spending.
Because many of those construction-related impacts are indirect it does make it tough to measure.
But anecdotally we believe we are already starting to see the impacts of that in our construction business.
In addition to oil there are several other factors that are contributing to the year-over-year decline in sales.
The stronger dollar is a headwind to sales but again not profit.
Commodity prices in mining are generally weak particularly iron ore and coal and that's negative for mining in our resource industry segment.
If weaknesses in agriculture were expecting lower sales of industrial engines and we expect our rail business to be down in 2015 after a great year in 2014.
And we expect weakness in the construction industries of key developing countries like China and Brazil and that was certainly evident in our first quarter.
So that's a recap of our year-over-year changes down from 2014 but no change in the topline outlook for 2015.
We did raise the profit outlook again this morning.
Our previous outlook was $4.60 per share all in and $4.75 excluding restructuring costs.
This morning we raise the profit outlook to $4.70 per share all in and $5 per share excluding restructuring costs.
Now the changes from the previous outlook include more restructuring activity.
We've increased our restructuring cost estimate from about $150 million expected for this year up $100 million to about $250 million with almost all the increase related to facilities that produce mining products.
We added the $120 million gain in the first quarter on the sale of our remaining ownership of the third-party logistics business that wasn't in our previous outlook.
And based on our first quarter actual results we made some additional improvements to the profit outlook.
While we held the topline and made a modest improvement to the bottom line of our outlook 2015 is still shaping up to be uncertain and challenging year.
There continues to be softness in Latin America particularly Brazil.
China growth is concerning.
There is a bit stability in the scale of economic recovery in the United States remains concerning.
Europe is still a question mark.
Mining hasnt shown improvement yet and while were still planning a sharp decline in our oil related sales in 2015 we are still a concern around that.
So to wrap up and move on the Q&amp;A portion of the call sales and revenues in the first quarter were about as we expected and we had a solid profit quarter.
We repurchased 400 million of shares in the quarter the balance sheet remains strong and were very focused on operational performance and cost control.
But it still looks like a tough year and we've not seen meaningful signs of recovery in many of our cyclical businesses.
So with that were ready to move on to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing our first question coming from Ted Grace.
Sir your line is live.
Hey guys congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Two questions on guidance.
The first on revenue.
Mike I know you said you're reaffirming at $50 billion.
Last quarter you walked through expectations for Construction Industries and Resource Industries and E&amp;T.
I was just wondering if you're reaffirming each of those or have there been any tweaks across the business segment at the revenue level? Yeah.
No I would say by and large it looks pretty close to what we said at the end of the year.
Okay that's helpful.
And the related question would be on the EPS side you raised guidance $0.25.
I know you mentioned $0.14 is from Cat Logistics.
I'm just wondering if you could walk through the other puts and takes.
It looked like incentive comp would have been about $0.05 tailwind if I read that correctly.
I would say thats our fault.
We rounded to the nearest $100 million last time and we rounded to the nearest $10 million this time.
There was by and large little change in our forecast for incentive comp.
We did raise guidance this $0.25 and you would normally think that would add to incentive comp.
But most of the add was for the gain that we had on the sale of the logistics business.
And our comp is based on OPACC operating profit after capital charge and that gain was below operating profit so its really not having any impact on the incentive comp.
Okay.
Was there any incremental benefit from restructuring that you would realize in 2015 that was not previously anticipated? I would say not that was not previously anticipated.
I mean we did expect benefits from restructuring to be better this year.
So no I wouldnt say we added anything for that.
Now we did add to restructuring cost.
And down the road after those are complete those should definitely lead to more benefits.
But actually in the short-term there are related costs for things like rearrangement that arent included in the number that contend to be a little bit negative around the time you are actually doing it.
So I would say on balance that is relative to our original outlook not a big reason for change.
We took the profit outlook up mostly because of very good cost control in the first quarter.
We dont give quarterly guidance but we were a little better than we thought we were going to be in the quarter.
And some of that of course was timing but some of it is spending that we dont think we will have to make as the year goes on.
Okay.
And FX was that any dynamic in the revision? No not much.
In fact we didnt really change our outlook for currency.
We did do a spot check on the impact on profit of recent changes and that was pretty neutral.
So we will take another look at that midyear and see if there is any changes need for that.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And best of luck this quarter guys.
Thanks Ted.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce the affiliation and pose your question.
Good morning.
Its Goldman Sachs.
I am wondering if you could talk about what was just the magnitude of material cost benefit that you realized this quarter.
And I know you're working hard with the supply chain just help us understand how we should think about the puts and takes over the balance of the year for material costs with volumes coming down but commodity costs that should be I think lower sequentially.
Can you may be give us more color there? Yes.
Absolutely material cost control has been a real positive actually not just in the first quarter but over the past few years the team has done a great job.
Thats a combination of the purchasing group and the design group in terms of designing for cost reduction.
So its been pretty good.
It was a decent positive again in the first quarter.
If memory serves me it was in the neighborhood of 1.5%.
Now to the extent that we buy things in non-U.S.
currencies we wouldnt be including it and that kind of number we isolate the impact of currency on our expenses separately at least for those that are denominated in foreign currencies.
Okay.
And my follow-up on the dealer inventory side how should we think about inventory levels over the balance of the year? And out of the inventory build that we saw in the quarter is it in the right regions is it in areas that you folks want? Yes.
I mean we did have an inventory build in the first quarter and we didnt talk a lot about that in the release partly because I think sometimes it gets taken out of context.
We expect an inventory build in the first quarter.
The selling season from dealers and customers tends to be heavier in the summertime and so dealers add inventories up ahead of summertime.
That occurred this year in construction industries.
We have order of magnitude of 180 million dealers or 180 dealers roughly around the world.
At any given point in time youve got some of them they probably have a little too much and some that have probably a little too little.
If we look at our months of supply on hand we kind of try to judge that in a reasonable range and we do look at that by region.
And by and large I think our dealer inventory we would say is in a reasonable range.
Now from here we definitely believe it will come down over the course of the year that happened last year.
Thats kind of normal to have a build in the first quarter and then have dealers sell that down as we go through the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Seth Weber.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Good morning.
It's RBC.
I wanted to ask about the Resource Industries segment.
The margin there in the first quarter actually went up sequentially even though revenue was down.
I mean do you feel like the margin has bottomed in that business at this point? No I wouldnt say that Seth.
I think if you look at it sequentially you always have to consider that we have some reasonable seasonality between the first quarter and the fourth quarter or fourth quarter to first quarter in discretionary costs.
So fourth quarter was a pretty heavy quarter first quarter was a pretty like quarter in terms of spending.
So I think that has a lot to do with the sequential improvement.
Now I think Resource Industries margins will likely come down as the year progresses.
We kind of said before we thought something around breakeven was probably reasonable.
I think that we are going to add the spending over the course of the year.
Weve got some R&amp;D programs that we need to do there.
We talked about that in January.
So my guess is coming off of a pretty light quarter for cost and some increase in engineering as the year goes by and probably not a lot of change in the topline margin will probably moderate from where its at.
So just to be clear to get to a breakeven kind of number would you go negative in a given quarter for the year? Once you get around breakeven the numbers are so small that $10 million or $15 million one way or the other could cause that.
I mean if were positive in the first quarter we are thinking breakeven for the year.
If its slipped a little below that at the quarter during the year that wouldnt be surprising.
Okay.
Thank you.
And if I could just ask a follow-up on the aftermarket business for Resource it was down revenue was down.
Is there any kind of light at the end of the tunnel there? Or is that -- I mean what do you think needs to happen there for the aftermarket business to get better on mining? Thats a very good question.
We've been asking ourselves that.
We've got customers with some parked equipment.
We think again there's been some cannibalizing of equipment in the field.
We are looking -- I think customers are pushing out rebuild times.
In our view that can't keep happening but it has been happening.
So when that turns around it is like the industry overall.
Its a little bit hard to predict the timing but we understand where both parked sales and equipment sales are to whats at least for equipment a reasonable replacement level.
Its far below that.
But when that's going to turn around it's hard to say.
Fair enough.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Eli Lustgarten.
Please announce our affiliation and poise your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning Eli.
It's a nice quarter.
We are all impressed.
We talked about the breakeven in our resource now.
Can you talk to us about what we should expect profitability wise which were very impressive in both construction and in E&amp;T? Particularly we know volume is going to drop in E&amp;T but you did north of $0.15 almost 16% in construction and over 20% in E&amp;T.
And while we expect to come down in order to hold the guidance where you are these numbers have to come down quite a bit.
Can you give me some idea of what we should expect and do we think does construction go below double-digit operating margin for the year but what happens as the year unfolds and the business weakens? Yeah.
So I think this really goes kind of across the company.
I will touch on several of the segments.
But we expect -- the first quarter was kind of seasonally low on costs.
So just as a matter of course discretionary cost will go up a bit from the first quarter level.
We do plan to spend some more on R&amp;D and we talked about that last January.
We are looking at negative mix.
We will have negative product mix in E&amp;T because of the decline in the oil business that's coming.
We also expect some negative mix in Construction Industries.
If you look at what they sold in the first quarter it was relatively balanced between -- we have three pieces of construction -- earthmoving excavation and building construction products so BCP are smaller equipment.
So what we actually saw in the quarter at least in terms of new equipment was fairly balanced between those three subsectors.
But if you look at what was ordered and what we think is going to happen for sales as the year unfolds probably not a lot of change in total for construction but a bit more of a shift to BCP smaller machines.
And part of that is -- in countries like China where the selling season is very early in the year that helps excavation sales.
And then that tails down later in the year.
So we are looking at some negative mix in construction as the year goes on.
I dont think for the year we are not at least in our -- contemplated in our outlook we are not going to fall below double digits for construction.
E&amp;T operating profit percent will I think for sure come down I guess I cant say for sure.
We would expect it would come down and mostly because of declines in the oil business which is -- tends to be bigger little bit higher-margin product.
And can you follow-up can we talk a little bit about what's going on in pricing across the businesses? I mean you did single out that one of the problems in the resource business was basically pricing more than anything else.
So what's going on in the other two sectors pricing wise? Are things relatively holding or is there some more price competition showing up? That's a good question and it's interesting.
When the numbers get this small its too much about numbers that are relatively small.
I mean we had for the company overall $105 million of price realization thats less than 1%.
I think the segment that is doing -- the segments that are doing better right now are construction and energy and transportation.
Construction in particular did a little bit better but part of that is really from a few three things.
One is we had last year this big Brazilian order from the government.
And while that was good volume it was pretty low price.
So without that sort of our average price level is up a bit.
We had some favorable geographic mix and we did take list price increases a small but up at the beginning of the year so that all contributed a bit.
I think with Resource Industries it's been down year-over-year for the last -- certain last couple of quarters.
I cant remember the third but probably the third last year as well.
Its just the top business right now.
It is dog eat dog.
And although a lot of that product that we sell is dollar-based the sales are conducted in dollars a lot in mining.
Some of our key competition like Komatsu probably has more of a yen cost based than we do and they are being aggressive.
So it's a tough industry.
I will add.
Doug Oberhelman here.
Mike said dog eat dog Id rather say a cat eats dog.
But be that as it may.
We are seeing a very competitive marketplace right now.
We did post up a little price realization in the first quarter which I was very happy to see.
But I will tell you with a yen that's off over 50% in three years euro Brazilian currency pound currency off 20 to 30% in the last year.
All of our competitors arent in the U.S.
So it really is a competitive environment out there.
But we are not giving up our PINS goals our market share goals.
We are doing as well as we can be expected in a tough market that we are.
Certainly our cost management in the last couple of years has helped that our lean manufacturing where we generated cost advantage is helping.
We are still very much focused on market share.
But I would say the competition for every deal has gotten greater as we've seen this dollar strengthen.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce our affiliation and poise your question.
Hi J.P.
Morgan.
My first question it's really I suppose it's to you Doug.
We talk about Europe and the euro being weak and what that's doing to help the European manufacturers export but are you seeing any signs of European economies getting any better at all? Or is that something that you think might be on the op income going into 16? I think it's in our future.
I said on the show this morning that it seems to me that with the QE coming in by the ECB with a euro thats up like I said 25% or so on a years time with energy prices where they are the stimulus of all three of those and not to mention continuing lowered rates which has finally happened across Europe.
I like in the euro zone an awful lot to the period of say 2010 11 and 12 in the U.S.
where there was a lot of stimulus.
We didn't see much growth but we see better growth now.
So I am convinced its coming.
I don't know if it will be when it will be and Im not going to predict that.
But we still see and I was just with several of our European dealers we still have the North-South divide.
I think the Germans would say they see some green shoots in that economy.
Were not seeing it in our numbers but they were a bit more optimistic in Germany of course a euro at $1.07 $1.08 really benefits those exporters.
So I think were on the early stages of what will be a recovery.
I dont think its going to be a boom and I think its going to be an anemic growth probably looking a lot like what we've seen here.
But it will feel better when it happens for sure Ann.
I'm sure it will.
And then just switching gears as my follow-up we track the U.S.
construction industry shipments from census data and those have been done but orders are down about 27% in Q1.
That's just through February.
Can you talk about what you're seeing out there on construction industry orders? Does that include exports that might have weakened because of the strength of the dollar or what's going on out there in terms of industry orders on the construction equipment side? Thanks.
Yeah.
I havent looked at it by region so much.
But I know that for our construction industry segment if I look at orders in the first quarter all Ill tell you is theyre down -- theyre down I mean no doubt about that but our backlog was a little bit lower in the first quarter.
But our orders were certainly not down anywhere near that over the magnitude.
Okay.
And just that have anything to do with the fact that your dealers cannot cancel orders so we might be seeing some delivery.
We may have inventories corrected later in the year or have you changed that policy? And then I leave it there.
We actually work very closely with dealers to help them set sort of in combination what an appropriate level of inventory for them is.
I mean the last thing we want is the dealer ending up with too much.
I mean that it never helps anybody if that's the case.
So I don't think there's any -- there's no -- as far as I know I can't see any inventory problem sitting out there.
If youre going back and looking two years ago that was the case but thats just not the case now.
Im probably not looking at the same data that youre looking at on the 27%.
All I can tell you is our orders arent down.
And are you talking versus a year ago Ann? Yes.
It's the U.S.
consensus data or census data -- excuse me -- and it is year over year through February.
Yeah.
I couldnt.
Any comment on how we are relative to that number be pure speculation on my part but were not seeing that kind of a decline no.
Okay.
That's helpful color.
Okay.
I'll get back in line.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Steven Fisher.
Please announce your affiliation then post your question.
Great.
Thanks.
It's UBS.
Just a follow-up on that last question there how did the 9% increase in North American construction sales compare to your expectations? I know you are earlier in the year looking for North America to be up for the year.
Is that still the case and should we maybe now be prepared for some year-over-year declines in North American contraction as the year plays on? Yeah.
I think on balance and our outlook in January and I kind of updated that a little bit today.
We expected construction sales to be down 5% to 10%.
But then and now the only region thats likely to be in neutral to positive territory is North America.
The first quarter was by and large about what we expected.
Okay.
So North American construction still expected to be up for the year is the context of that down 5% to 10%? Yeah.
I would say the total was down 5% to 10%.
The only region thats not really down is North America but the numbers are very small.
I would say its within the margin of error to be neutral to positive.
Okay.
And then can you just give us a sense of the pace of the bookings on the Solar Turbines in the quarter and maybe how far out that backlog extends now for the business? Are you putting anything in there for 2016 yet? Thanks.
Ill take that Mike.
And I just came back from Solar in San Diego two days ago and got a pretty good briefing.
I would say their forecast which is rolled up into ours for 15 is a pretty good line of sight to that.
They would not speculate it and really don't know much beyond that into 16 as yet.
I would say around gas compression of course which is the big piece of solar business that has held up.
And there's a lot of pipeline work going on.
There is a lot of pressure behind it thats required and that's our turbine and compressor in most cases.
So Id say its again a challenging environment but for gas compression the rest of the year theyre pretty much I think going to end up where we thought they would be and thats good.
And were not going to do anything about 16 and even speculate today.
And we will later in the year because things are evolving so quickly here that I dont know what it will be and were concentrating on 15.
But solar I think its got a year that were pretty confident about thats baked into here as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Andrew Casey.
Please announce your affiliation and post your question.
Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks a lot.
A bigger question a bigger picture question within North America have you seen any sort of equipment flow back from the energy production areas to date or do you think that's a potential more in the second half? No.
I think weve seen weaker -- Im going to use the U.S.
region as the example here.
Weve seen certainly a decline in orders in business there.
Weve actually even seen some decline in part sales in those regions.
So anecdotally I would tell you I think we are seeing impact of lower oil prices in our construction business today.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
And then if I could follow-up on the pricing question specific to construction you gave a litany of things.
Is it your sense that full-year pricing may be more like flat coming off the strong Q1 performance because you have more difficult comps related to Brazil construction the shift to BCP and then what you describe the competitive marketplace? Yes.
When we did our year-end release we said that we expected price realization to be favourable but less than about 0.5%.
And by and large I think that is still the case.
I mean the first quarter was in positive territory.
I think we expect to end the year in positive territory but I mean pretty small numbers.
By and large if you think around 0.5% plus or minus you're probably in the ballpark.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Its Barclays.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Good morning Andy.
Mike can you talk a little bit more about your backlog movements within the quarter? You noted an improvement in locomotive backlog and in your segment commentary you talked about a large locomotive project in Asia.
So can you talk about what drove your locomotive backlog? Is that sort of the ending of the North American locomotives or is that more international related growth? Okay.
So the Asia comment in the -- around the quarter was locomotive shipments can be kind of lumpy.
We had a decent size order for multiple locomotives go out to a customer in Australia in the quarter.
So that was the kind of genesis of the Asia comment in the quarter.
In terms of the backlog we during the quarter took an order from one of the North American railroads for new locomotives and what the railroads do is they will place an order.
And it's usually for multiple years and you'll produce portions of it kind of over the course of the contract.
And we had an order placed in the first quarter from North American railroad.
Got it .But its a long-term contract when it comes down to it? Sure.
Yes absolutely.
Okay.
So just shifting gears you increased restructuring cost at $250 million up from $150 million with the increase primarily related to facilities that produce mining products.
Can you talk about your decision process when it comes to restructuring Resource Industries? You disclosed in your 10-K that you have got 36 mining related facilities at the end of 2014.
So how do you gauge when to take action regarding these facilities? And can you talk about the payback period and benefits you expect in your recent actions? Yes.
Its Doug here.
Brad just before you do that Id like to come back to that locomotive order that Mike mentioned one of the big six in North America that was a tier 4 order for our new emissions locomotive which will be available in 2016.
And there has been a lot of discussion around our tier 4 readiness and that was a big order for us and well start shipping at '16 our long-term contract.
It starts pretty quickly as soon as we give that technology ready which as I said it will be next year.
Sorry Brad.
No no its good.
Hi Andy its Brad.
Hi Brad.
Let me talk a little bit about this.
There has been a lot of discussion about it.
And weve been fairly active in terms of the studies that we do here.
Well go through a process where well -- we are cyclical weve seen this before.
On the one side we want to be ready for the upturn.
Our business model is to produce quality products lowest on operating costs produces parts and service from us and the dealers and repeat business.
And so on that side given the fact that our sales can move fairly dramatically through the cycles we want to be ready to be able to meet that demand.
But on the other side its absolutely clear and a good question that this current economic environment presents a lot of opportunities.
So we've been at this since 2013.
In fact if you can add up what we've done in the last three years including what we plan to do in '15 we will incur roughly $900 million of restructuring cost.
Weve closed or downsized roughly 20 facilities about 5 million of square feet during that period again through '15 and about 15 000 employees which is unfortunate.
All-in then if you look at the benefits we mentioned to you before that we believe after '15 the benefits per year would be $400 million to $500 million per year with what we've done which weve had higher benefits on than we anticipated and what we have in place will be at the high end or exceed that in terms of our benefits per year.
And so it's a robust process its done by our product source playing group with involvement across all the facilities all the regions.
There has been some discussion about big facilities.
Its very hard to close the single source Decatur facility in terms of the mining trucks it would be the same for each periods.
So those things just don't dollar out in terms of return to shareholders and we do a net present value calculation through that.
So I would say that we're continuing to look weve added a few more in the mining space.
If you go back to 2012 we were $66 billion in sales.
We are $50 billion now.
Weve lost roughly $16 billion 75% of that is mining and weve held at 25% decremental pull-through right in that range.
And so theres a lot of things going on that support that including lean and material cost.
But I would say that we are pretty happy with that pull-through over that three-year period.
We've done that with little price and higher quality and growing market share.
So we are not saying we wont have more to do but that process is ongoing and weve been pretty active in it.
Okay.
Thanks Brad.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from David Raso.
Please pronounce your affiliation then pose your question.
Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Ill keep it pretty simple.
I am just trying to figure out the cadence of earnings for the year.
The first quarter was $1.86 ex the restructuring and almost never is the second quarter not as high or higher than the first quarter or maybe once in the last 20 years and that was a quarter when you are just starting to buy Bucyrus.
So even if I pull out the gain on the first quarter call it $1.72 if the second quarter has also been $1.72 or higher to do your full year the back half of year has to be doing $0.70 $0.75 per quarter.
Is there conservatism in the guidance or does it drop-off that sharply? No what I would tell you is if you look at our internal forecast of the three quarters they are not -- I mean they are very close to each other.
So we see it beginning in the second quarter -- the second quarter we would expect to be lower than the first quarter on sales.
And to your point that that almost -- that doesn't happen very often.
But our forecast for this year is second quarter actually lower than the first quarter on both sales and profit not much different through the rest of the year.
I mean there are small pluses and minuses.
But by and large you can look at our full year take out our first quarter and think about the remainder as close to what we are thinking.
All right.
I mean I am just trying to figure if sourcing in the second quarter is dropping to call it $1.20 or something like that and the last two quarters are $1.
The dropoff from energy and some locomotives whats the offset in the second half of the year to make up for some of that? You still have the earnings dropping off I am just trying to understand -- they drop off pretty sharply so what are some of the things we are expecting to be better? Yes.
So a couple of things.
So you are correct in the idea that particularly for reciprocating engines we will have fairly sizable declines in the second half of the year actually beginning in the -- probably beginning sometime in the second quarter and continuing on through the year.
But there are other parts of the business like solar where the timing of the year is usually the second half is higher than the first half and we certainly see that happening this year.
We have -- I think Marine sales up a bit higher in the back half of the year then the front half of the year and much of the rest of the business is actually reasonably -- in fact I just look at this morning kind of almost anticipating this question.
The rest of the year for most of the rest of the businesses are by and large relatively stable as we go through the year.
So the drop-off will be more oil but it will be mitigated a little bit by timing in some of the segments and a little bit of an increase in marine.
And then it's not related to that the inventory you mentioned a bit of a tickdown through the rest of the year.
Can you help quantify at company level as well as dealer level? Yeah.
If I look at company level Im going to be a little bit more vague because we have continuing benefits from our lean manufacturing journey above and beyond where we were last year baked in.
Weve got I will say aggressive goals in our forecast.
So I would say without giving a number were looking for kind of a cadence of improvement as result of that or decline in inventory as we go through the year.
Not massive -- I mean certainly not like we had in the fourth quarter of last year but our forecast would reflect modest declines in each of the next few quarters.
So the dealer inventory for the year I think -- The dealer inventory for the year? About a $1 billion? Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
I dont think that weve given a number but we added the inventory in the first quarter.
Our forecast would reflect all of that coming out plus a little bit more.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Its a case where our sales for the year are coming down from 55 to 50 and not all of that is oil.
Some of that maybe oil related but its still in construction.
So I think that we will probably end the year a bit less than we were last year.
Mining inventory is going to continue to come down little bit this year not as much as last year.
But its going to continue edging its way down like it did in the first quarter.
All right.
I appreciate the detail.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research.
Please announce affiliation and poise your question.
Its Vertical Research.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
So I guess the question is on capital allocation.
The commentary on share repurchase in the press release was balanced I guess with that and other opportunities.
I'm just curious if just given the maybe bounding opportunities in oil and gas I'm not sure whether it makes whether we should expect you to cut back on share buybacks for a couple of quarters just in case something develops? Or how you think about staging that if you'd buy something and then reassure shares how are you thinking about that? Ill take that one.
Doug Oberhelman here.
We really havent changed our priorities of cash at all.
If anything the top priority to maintain the balance sheet is I think becoming more important to us as the uncertainty around us continues on if not increases.
We reported that we are about I guess 37% or so on debt to debt and equity.
Thats being coming trending down and we will trend that down throughout the year.
We bought $400 million of shares in the first quarter which I think is a reasonable planning rate for the rest of the year assuming our plan holds up.
We will end the -- I have no doubt well end the year with cash a lot of cash as we did in the first quarter over $7 billion.
I think in this area of uncertainty where day-to-day one never knows what going to happen and having recently been burned on that in 2008 with a big downturn and a weak balance sheet thats where we are going to be.
The other thing and I've said this before is that we are continually looking for growth opportunities.
And that strong balance sheet allows us lots of flexibility for growth for protection maintain our dividend and modestly increase it.
As weve said before buying shares back.
But I would say that were in the driver seat with cash generation with our inventory turnover arising our lean manufacturing freeing up cash.
And as these other priorities work through share buyback will likely over time continue to be important thing for us.
But in 2015 were just planning right now on that $4 million until we kind of per quarter or so given the uncertainties and the challenges we see everyday in the marketplace.
That's wonderful.
Thank you Doug.
If I can ask my follow-up Mike I think mentioned that oil and gas in the drilling and completions and Doug I believe you mentioned that solar looks okay.
Is there any risk or is it long enough into this downturn to see if there's a risk to parts all our mining not just in sort of fracing completion drilling but just production pipeline and anything else? Do you anticipate right now that this is isolated to drilling and completion or could it spillover either on pricing or volume on the rest of it? Thank you.
You never say never about anything.
But generally speaking if you are going to produce and youre going to move things through oil -- oil through a pipeline or you need the equipment to work to do that.
If there is hesitation if there is customer maybe like mining they have the possibility that could push out things like overhauls and rebuilds that potentially could be a negative.
I would say were not really seeing a lot of that right now outside of kind of the drilling and fracing were activity is off.
Remember though and I think these needs to be said a lot of our business in oil and gas probably most of our business in oil and gas is gas.
And so far that's held up pretty well.
Demand for gas is good and the compression business is doing pretty well.
So oil is just a one piece of our oil and gas business.
Thank you Mike.
Well.
With that I think were going to wrap it up.
We are at the top of the hour.
Thank you for joining us and well talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Caterpillar Second Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode.
The floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Finance Services Division</strong> Thank you Anthony.
And good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Financial Services.
On the call today I'm pleased to have our Chairman and CEO Doug Oberhelman and Group President and CFO Brad Halverson.
Now this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
Any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we'll be posting it in the investor section of our caterpillar.com website.
And it will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information and that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A that's Risk Factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of this year and also in the forward-looking statements language in today's release.
In addition there's a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures that can be found in our financial release today and that's also been posted at our caterpillar.com website.
Okay.
Let's get started.
This morning we'll be reviewing our results for the second quarter and our outlook for 2015.
For the quarter sales and revenues were $12.3 billion and profit per share was $1.16 and that was $1.27 excluding restructuring costs.
Both of those numbers were about as about what we expected.
No big surprises.
In fact from a macro standpoint much of what we were expecting when 2015 started seems to be playing out.
We expected that mining would continue to be very weak and it certainly has.
We were concerned about weakening sales of construction equipment in China and Brazil and both are down substantially from last year.
With the sharp drop in oil prices from last fall we expected we'd have sales headwinds in our energy and transportation segment and in construction equipment sales in the parts of the world where oil production was important and that's happening.
Now on the plus side we also expected that our people would continue to execute on the things that we can control.
And we've done that with decremental margins better than our target.
Machinery Energy &amp; Transportation operating cash flow of $1.6 billion in the second quarter and a balance sheet that remains healthy with a debt-to-cap ratio near 35%.
So with that introduction behind us let's get into a little more detail on the quarter.
Again sales and revenues were 13% lower than last year.
The decline was widespread with lower sales in every geographic region of the world and down versus last year in each of our business segments.
We'll start with Construction Industries which was down 18% and down in all regions.
Latin America was the most significant decline down 47% and that was mostly a result of weak demand in general and in particular Brazil and also absent of a large order that we had from the Brazilian government from last year.
Asia-Pacific region was down 30% with much of that decline in China and Japan.
In China the construction industry continued to weaken and in Japan the main issue was currency exchange as the yen weakened versus the dollar and our sales that are denominated in yen there are translating into fewer dollars.
In the Europe Africa Middle East region Construction Industry sales were down 18% and much of that was from currency translation as local currencies particularly the euro were weaker than the dollar compared with the second quarter of last year.
In addition there was some unfavorable dealer inventory change in the Europe Africa Middle East region.
Now North America was off 3% and we have seen some strength in residential and nonresidential construction but that's been offset or slightly more than offset by a drop in sales to customers serving oil and gas.
In Resource Industries which is mostly mining sales were down 11% versus the second quarter of 2014 and mining sales continue to weaken for both new equipment and to a lesser degree for aftermarket parts.
Sales related to quarry and aggregates did improve but it wasn't enough to offset the decline in mining.
In Resource Industries sales were down in all regions.
Suffice to say that mining remains weak around the world and we haven't yet seen signs of a recovery.
If you would like a little more regional flavor there is more in the Resource Industries section in this morning's financial release.
For Energy &amp; Transportation sales were down 12%.
And while down in all regions I think probably the most useful way to cover energy and transportation is by major industry and that's oil and gas transportation power gen and industrial sales.
In short sales in each of these industries was down and in order of magnitude the most significant decline was for transportation and that was mostly lower locomotive sales in North America.
Locomotive sales last year in 2014 were pretty good.
In 2015 regulations for emissions changed in the United States and Tier 4 started.
And our tier locomotive isn't expected to be available until later in 2016 so sales this year are down.
Now oil and gas related sales were also lower and that's probably not surprising to you given the decline in oil prices over the past year and softening investment by oil producers.
Sales of industrial engines also declined and just for your reference we sell these industrial engines to ag customers electric power packagers construction and material handling customers and for a wide variety of other application.
And in general demand was down a bit and currency also had an unfavorable impact particularly in Europe.
Power generation sales were also down and most of that was currency translation related.
Again in Europe in particular where our euro-based sales translated into fewer dollars.
Okay that's a summary of sales and revenues.
Again all-in-all about as we expected for the quarter and down about 13% from last year.
Profit in the quarter was $1.16.
We did have $0.11 a share or $89 million of restructuring costs and without restructuring profit was $1.27.
Now profit is down from a year ago while we were $1.57 all in and $1.69 last year in the second quarter excluding restructuring.
Operating profit declined from $1.475 billion in the second quarter last year to $1.13 billion this year.
Now that's a drop of $345 million.
More than all that decline $483 million in total was a result of lower sales volume.
In addition Financial Products was down $49 million.
R&amp;D costs were a little bit higher than the second quarter of last year as well.
Now on the favorable side for operating profit price realization was a positive.
It was $84 million certainly in the right direction but less than 1% of sales.
Manufacturing costs were slightly favorable and would have been more so if not for a headwind from inventory absorption and that was a result of an increase in our inventory over the course of the second quarter of 2014 and a decline in inventory in the second quarter of 2015.
Let's talk about currency for a moment.
While the impact on sales was negative over $400 million it was actually positive to operating profit about $80 million and that's because we have a significant cost base outside the US and a stronger US dollar causes those costs to translate into fewer dollars.
And that more than offset the negative impact on sales.
Now there are other currency impacts in our P&amp;L as well below operating profit.
And other income and expense again below operating profit quarter-over-quarter was unfavorable $78 million.
And most of that was related to currency translation on our balance sheet position and hedging.
So in summary on balance relative to profit currency didn't have much of an impact second quarter to second quarter.
Okay.
That's profit versus last year and the major story is sales volume.
So let's turn to the outlook and that will be actually pretty easy to cover because little has actually changed.
Back in January with our original outlook we expected sales and revenues of about $50 billion.
And at the end of the first quarter we held that.
This morning we lowered about $1 billion to $49 billion.
The most important point in that is for the most part the change is currency related.
The dollar strengthened some in the first quarter and strengthened a bit more in the second quarter particularly against the yen and it's moved enough versus our original outlook that we needed to reflect it in today's updated outlook for the year.
Now sitting here about halfway through the year except for currency impacts the overall sales and revenues outlook is still pretty close to what we expected when we started the year.
While we would have liked to have been surprised to the upside our sales outlook of six months ago is proving to be pretty accurate so far particularly given the degree of uncertainty in the world and the things that we expected would happen in 2015 including: world economic growth that wasn't much different than 2014 the impact of lower oil prices on Energy &amp; Transportation and Construction Equipment sales lower mining sales headwinds in China and Brazil and the decline in locomotive sales.
Now profit in the outlook is being held flat with what we expected at the end of the first quarter and that's $4.70 a share or $5 a share excluding restructuring.
While that's unchanged from last quarter it is up from our original outlook from January which was $4.60 a share or $4.75 without restructuring.
And I mentioned it a few minutes ago and I think it's probably worth repeating while we're talking about the outlook what happened in the second quarter for sales and profit is about what we were expecting when we were on this call three months ago.
Now if you consider the full-year outlook and actual results for the first half it's evident that we're expecting lower sales and profit in the second half of the year.
Excluding restructuring costs our outlook would reflect about $1.24 decline in profit per share first half to second half.
And that's a result of lower sales in the second half about $1 billion seasonal cost patterns the first quarter is usually a pretty light quarter for costs and the fourth quarter is seasonally higher and that includes R&amp;D costs.
We have the absence of the gain in the first quarter on the sale of our remaining interest in the third-party logistics business.
We do expect some negative sales mix in the second half particularly related to oil and gas.
That will likely decline more in the second half than it has in the first half.
And we're expecting more negative inventory absorption.
We're forecasting a decent sized inventory decline that's Caterpillar inventory in the second half of the year more than the first half of the year.
Now in terms of how the next two quarters are going to play out we think that sales will be less in the third quarter than the fourth quarter about $750 million lower.
And that's not unusual.
Just for example in 2014 last year sales in the third quarter were about $700 million below the fourth quarter.
Now as a result of lower sales in the third quarter third quarter's likely to be our lowest profit quarter for the year.
As expected again 2015 is turning out to be another challenging year.
We're serving several industries that at the moment are weak: mining oil and gas and in many parts of the world construction.
Again particularly China and Brazil.
We are however executing on the things that are more in our control.
We've taken substantial restructuring actions and more are likely.
We're improving quality safety and our market position for many of our products.
We're also generating cash.
Our machinery energy and transportation operating cash flow again was $1.6 billion in the quarter.
And given the weakness in many of our businesses right now we don't need cash to deploy for capacity and our balance sheet is strong.
Our ME&amp;T debt-to-cap ratio is near 35% well within our target range.
And we have $7.8 billion of cash on the balance sheet at the end of the second quarter.
And that brings me to the other announcement we made this morning and that's our intention to repurchase another $1.5 billion of stock in the third quarter.
Now that plus what we've repurchased in the first half should take us to around $2 billion by the time we get to the end of the third quarter.
And as a reminder we did increase the quarterly dividend in the second quarter and that was back in June.
We took it up $0.10 (sic) [10%] (15:09) from $0.70 a quarter to $0.77 and if you annualize that it's a rate of about $3.08 a share.
So in summary sales and profit in the second quarter about as we expected.
No change in the profit outlook for the year $1.6 billion of ME&amp;T operating cash flow in the quarter $1.5 billion share repurchase 10% increase in the dividend.
We think we've done pretty well with the economic and industry climate we have to work with.
We've improved our market position and our operations.
Now all that said we'd certainly be happy to see a better global economy.
So with that we are ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the floor is now open for questions.
Our first question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for the time on the questions.
I guess a couple questions.
Just more broadly can you guys talk about I guess Mike when you're thinking about the second half of the year can you talk about oil and gas the decline that we saw in the second quarter relative to what you expect in the second half? And then what is implied in your profitability in the second half of the year with regard to oil and gas? I feel like before you said it would be more in the reciprocating engine side and you still expected Solar and the Marine business to be up.
Has that mix changed at all? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I would say in general what we said before about the resi business for drilling and well servicing that's where the brunt of the decline is going to be felt.
And we had a pretty sizable backlog of that coming into the year and that's actually helped sales in the first half.
So we're going to see more of the decline in that reset business in the second half.
And that goes back to my comment on sales mix in the second half.
So that will likely be a bit more negative.
And then I'm sorry your visibility specifically on Solar right now and I'm assuming Solar is still good relative? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I'd say everything that we've said about Solar this year and holding up and a backlog is still the case.
I'm going to try not to get too far ahead of ourselves into a discussion about 2016.
We don't have an outlook in front of us for 2016.
And that's not trying to avoid that question it's just we commonly do that with our October third quarter release kind of give a preview of what we think for the next year.
That said if you do look at backlogs and what's happened you don't see Solar falling apart.
It's marching along reasonably well so far this year.
I wouldn't say there's anything that I've seen that I would consider to be alarming if that helps.
Okay.
And then I guess just can I ask a second question? Just I guess broadly Doug on mining we've seen a lot of the mining data points continue to deteriorate what you're hearing from your customers as well as your competition.
I guess Doug what would you need to see to change your longer-term view on mining and to take sort of a more aggressive restructuring within Caterpillar? And as we think about I know you're spending this year for the long-term.
Do you feel like the brunt of the spend in mining in terms of new products and R&amp;D does that go away in 2015 so 2016 has less of a headwind? Thanks.
And I'll get back in queue.
Around mining most of the restructuring we have taken to date has been aimed at mining.
A number of facilities have been downsized closed and have been announced to do so this year and next year.
We'll continually view that.
What we're hearing from customers of course and seeing from customers is an ongoing fairly high production rate.
Now I don't know how long that will hold up but so far we haven't seen a big drop in production.
We've certainly seen no expansion and won't for the foreseeable future.
But we have not seen any or I guess we have seen our trucks and ancillary equipment especially being used longer and longer and longer.
Service intervals are being extended.
As long as we see that we know there is a replacement cycle coming at some point.
It's just extended.
In terms of where do we see this long-term I think a lot of that's going to depend on what we see for long-term growth rate and is the world going to grow at 2% for the next 10 years or is it going to grow at 3% or something else.
And I think we'll continue to monitor that.
We do that right now and particularly as we go into 2016 we'll take a look at that towards the end of the year.
But that would be the driver of how fast and how much mining is going to require over the next decade or so and then thus the supply of equipment to them.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Okay next question please.
Our next question's from Joel Tiss.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Sorry I was on mute.
Bank of Montreal.
How's it going guys? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Good Joel.
What's up? I was just in Asia and there's this whole I guess it's a little old but I'm old too.
But I'm a little behind the curve probably but they're talking about expanding like giving countries money to help expand their infrastructure and dragging a lot of the Chinese overcapacity and the Chinese suppliers with them.
And so not stopping at the Chinese border going all the way Africa Eastern Europe former Soviet republics.
So as long as Doug is here I just wondered if you could talk a little bit about does China bring you guys along with them because you are a local Chinese supplier as they go to these different regions? Or are you already there and can effectively compete with them? Like how does this play out over the next decade? Hi Joel.
I think you're referring primarily to the Asian Infrastructure Bank AIIB which was announced a year or so ago.
It's been funded now and run by the Chinese.
It's a somewhat similar bank to the several regional banks that are around whether it's Latin America or Asia or to some degree World Bank.
They are focusing certainly around Asian infrastructure.
We are there.
Our business model works very well.
I think a significant piece of this is aimed at the Silk Road the new Silk one belt one road project.
It's probably a 50-year project going forward.
My expectation would be that we're a local Chinese company.
Our dealers service products throughout that region and when it comes down to it and they build infrastructure complete those kinds of things funded by that AIIB that the best supplier's going to win the construction equipment just like anything else.
Now will there be bias in another direction? Probably as we see today that we do pretty well in China.
So my expectation is that that's China trying to take its investments even more broadly than they have been doing.
We've done pretty well with that around the world so far and that would be my expectation going forward.
Having said that a bit political.
It would be nice to see the United States involved with that.
We've not been.
A lot of the European countries have joined in and most Asians have joined in to aim at areas that need a lot of development.
And that I hope is in our future.
But again a little bit off the subject but is I think pertinent to the answer.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Thanks Joel.
I can't do a quick follow up? Okay.
Fine.
Thank you.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah go ahead.
I just wondered if Mike this isn't giving away 2016 guidance but can you share with us what the energy book-to-bill has been in those two different in the recip engines and in Solar? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Well definitely for recip engines the backlog has been going down.
That's probably no surprise.
I mean we haven't got a lot of new orders for oil and gas over the last six months as the oil price has declined and investment is beginning to dry up.
So our backlog has definitely come down for the recip side not so much for Solar.
Okay.
Thank you Finance Services Division</span></strong> Next question.
Our next question is from Joe O'Dea.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Good morning.
It's Vertical Research.
First question just on mining and in the press release talking about both equipment and aftermarket being down.
I think for a little while now aftermarket has been trending more flat.
And so just looking for any context around those aftermarket trends in the quarter whether this is the beginning of another chapter of declines given commodity movement over the last six months or if those decline rates are actually pretty small? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah good question Joe.
And I wish honestly we had a crystal ball where I could give you a very crisp answer for that.
I think I'll refer back to Doug's comment a bit ago around customers delaying maintenance intervals and repair intervals.
And that's going to in our view that's going to catch up.
I know that's a little bit of a broken record and we've been saying that.
But fundamentally the more they run this equipment and the longer those repair and maintenance intervals go the more pressure there's going to be.
I don't think anything fundamentally has changed.
They still need to repair and maintain vehicles but I think they're pushing it a little harder right now.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then maybe just as a follow up on the power gen side.
North America and Asia-Pac both flat in the quarter.
I think this is on the heels of actually several years of seeing weakness in power gen.
So really just asking your confidence in finding any sort of bottom and any visibility you have into improving demand in power gen? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I think for power gen and I'll just make my comment sort of an around the world comment here.
It's very dependent or reasonably tied to global GDP.
We've not seen much improvement generally.
We've got a pretty flattish world economy.
If you think about electric power and a lot of it is backup power.
When you build a new school when you build a new shopping mall you build a new factory you need backup power and until you have maybe an improvement in construction around the world you're probably not going to see much of a big improvement in electric power.
Now that said it was the least unfavorable in the quarter of the sectors under Energy &amp; Transportation.
And a lot of the decline was actually currency in Europe.
So it's been from a demand standpoint I think more flattish than some of the others.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Next question please.
Hello? Our next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Good morning it's Goldman Sachs.
You folks have spent a lot of time on supplier development.
Can you just give us an update on how much more room you have to reduce material costs beyond raw material deflation? So obviously steel costs coming down will help you folks in the back half of the year and maybe you could also touch on what kind of steel price you're assuming in the guidance over the balance of the year.
Thanks.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah Jerry good question.
If you look at our results over the past actually about three years we've gotten pretty decent what we call material cost reduction.
That's really been a combination of a couple of things.
We have had commodity declines over the last few years but we've actually as a company throughout the company done a pretty good job on not just commodity-related price reductions but actually cost-reducing components in our products.
And we've got pretty good cost reduction doing that.
So that's a lot of work between suppliers purchasing our engineering group to take costs beyond inflation and commodities out of the product.
That continues this year.
I think our expectation is there's still quite a bit of room to go there.
That's always an ongoing effort.
Above and beyond that it does rely a little bit on what's going on with commodities but I think there's still a lot of room to run there.
I would just add here a little bit.
We reorganized our procurement our logistics and our lean manufacturing group a while back and we are really seeing the benefits of that.
As Mike said we've seen lower material costs several years but at rates that have been unheard of around here prior to that.
The operating margins the pull-through numbers we've seen even in this down period of sales we've never experienced before in the past either.
And I would give this group and the fact that our operating units are embracing that all of the credit because we're seeing our built-in quality numbers and our quality metrics measured by defects per unit also drop through the floor.
So all of this is really helping us at a time when we need that kind of efficiency and it's working well.
And I think the best is yet to come when sales do pick up and we can put it to work in a growing environment.
But certainly now it's helped us on our decrement pull-through and quite happy about that.
Doug maybe I'll just make one comment.
This is Brad.
Frank Crespo leads that area and I'd go on visits with Frank.
You would probably maybe not be surprised but the tenor of these discussions when we go in with our suppliers is all about how we can collaborate how we can develop a better product solution more value to the customers and how can we take cost out of the process.
And so when we go in I would say to our suppliers in today's environment maybe compared to seven eight nine years ago the discussions are incredibly different.
They're not about what kind of a price decrease can you give me and a discussion and the negotiation around that.
The discussions are all around collaboration.
And I would say that that group's done a great job in the last four five years with improving the collaboration.
And there's a lot of talented suppliers and they're a huge asset to us.
Okay.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Thanks.
Quick follow up? Yeah just on the pricing side.
You folks got better pricing and resource this quarter.
And Doug over the course of your leadership you've delivered pretty well on the PIN (31:40) side.
I'm wondering how much room do you have to deliver modest price increases even as material costs are flat to down.
Do you think you have room there over the next couple of years because of how much the premium has come in versus the competitor set? I really don't see much change coming the next couple of years there unless we see some inflationary pressure.
The entire industry has more than enough capacity.
We've got a strong dollar to contend with with many of our big key competitors.
I'm quite happy with the fact we've been able to more or less beat or meet anyway retail CPI around the world in price realization the last few years.
The cost reduction at this point at one point we talked about cost reduction efficiency putting into market share which we have been doing.
I'd like to think we could continue that.
Our market position over the last few years has trended up nicely and is even the last year up a bit in a very tough environment.
I'd like to see that continue.
So I don't know I think we continue to see more of the same where we've been in terms of price realization.
Thank you.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Thanks Jerry.
Our next question is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hey good morning.
The conversation on the stock is going to increasingly shift toward the set-up into 2016.
So I know you're not giving 2016 guidance but can you help us a bit with where you see margins exiting 2015 in particular E&amp;T? I mean the margins have been stellar there basically 18% haven't really taken much of a hit.
So I'm just curious how do you see those margins as well as CI exiting 2015? Finance Services Division</span></strong> David this is Mike.
Let me start with that.
There are some headwinds in the second half of this year.
And again I'm not going to get into next year but I'll talk about a couple.
One is inventory absorption impacts negative.
This year we're going to end up with a pretty healthy by the time we get to the end of the year we think a reasonably healthy inventory reduction for CAT inventory.
And if you think about it our sales this year versus last year are down from about $55 billion in our outlook down to about $49 billion.
And so there's inventory coming out.
Now without getting too far ahead and talking about next year I'll just say if I look at what the analyst consensus is right now for next year  it's not our forecast but collectively you guys have our sales about roughly flat with that next year.
And if that were the case the degree of inventory coming out which is going to be pretty heavily weighted to the second half of this year that would be less of a drag.
So I think the second half of this year is going to have some negatives in it related to that.
Also there's a lot of first half/second half differences some that are seasonal.
Just for example we tend to build dealer inventory in the first half of the year as we're preparing for the summer selling season particularly for construction.
And then dealers tend to use inventory in the second half of the year and we tend to under-sell demand.
And that will be the case we think again this year.
We expect dealer inventories to come down.
So there are some built-in headwinds in the second half of the year.
So I'm not going to get into a guidance game too much but I don't think it's appropriate to probably take the second half of this year and multiply by two I think because of headwinds like that.
Now all that said next year will definitely be set up as a bit of a mix problem for us.
If you think about this year particularly in the recent piece of oil and gas we came into the year with a pretty decent backlog so much of the sales decline that we're going to have for the year in oil and gas is going to be in the second half of the year.
So and one way to think of it is good first half or reasonable first half for recip oil and gas lower second half.
Unless something changes in the marketplace I think the likelihood is that you'd have a couple of weak halves next year.
I mean the backlog now we're kind of through.
So I think without  and I don't think that's likely a big secret year-over-year full year-over-year you'll be looking at probably some margin weakness because of that.
I think in terms of E&amp;T margins overall they've done a great job.
I mean just if you look at the work that they've done over the past three four years it's just been phenomenal.
I mean we focus a lot and we talk a lot when we have you on the phone about oil and gas but they've taken up margins in almost every part of the business.
Industrial for example they've done a fabulous job on controlling costs and getting margins up there.
So I think it's no doubt with recip oil and gas coming down there will be some pressure on E&amp;T margins in the second half of the year.
And unless the situation with Oil and Gas changes I'm sure those pressures will continue.
I know you would have probably liked a little more of a numerical discussion around 2016 but we'll have that maybe in October.
Well I guess not even 2016 but Mike I was asking directly if you could at least quantify a little bit the margins exiting the year in E&amp;T and CI.
Are you willing to at least say you expect double-digit margins in both CI and E&amp;T both 3Q and 4Q? We're just trying to get a feel for the run rate to set up into 2016.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Well I mean certainly based on where E&amp;T is right now there's no doubt my mind they'll be certainly double digits over the course of the second half and I believe that too for Construction.
Okay.
And then lastly on the backlog.
Obviously it's down 23% year-over-year.
It's down 15% since the start of the year.
How should we think of the backlog expectations the rest of the year given they at least historically show some relationship to how you guide sales? Are we expecting the backlog to improve the rest of the year or still a drawdown? Finance Services Division</span></strong> I think it probably depends upon the business that we're in because they all have some seasonality to them.
For example in Construction we tend to get a lot of orders in late in the year and very early in the year.
We develop a bigger backlog.
Kind of again it's a little bit like dealer inventory.
Dealers are preparing for getting equipment lined up for the selling season.
So that will likely happen I would think again.
So I mean without again getting too specific I would suspect if the seasonal patterns hold that in the second half we'd probably build a little bit of backlog in construction.
In mining the whole book-to-bill has been slightly negative.
I mean it's getting to a point where there's not a lot of draw down coming and I think we should probably be coming to the point where that's not very significant one way or the other.
Until we get a recovery that would be great.
And then in E&amp;T you talked about the backlog coming down this year.
And that goes back to the point that I made a little bit ago.
We started the year with a pretty healthy backlog of recip engines for oil and gas and that's worked down throughout the year.
There might be a little bit more of that to come out.
But I can tell you order rates for the first half of the year have been extremely lean.
So I hope that helps.
Well I guess in aggregate then is the CI uptick seasonally expected to be large enough to offset the E&amp;T drawdown I guess is the end of the day question.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah honestly I don't know what the backlog forecast is.
That isn't something we cover.
And if I did I probably wouldn't.
I mean we've never disclosed a forecast for that and I probably wouldn't start.
But to be honest with you I don't know.
I would be surprised if the change  I would personally be surprised given everything I know if the change was very much one way or the other over the course of the second half.
All right.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
You said that the total revenue guidance is down a $1 billion to $49 billion and it's mostly FX.
Is there any mix shift we should just be cognizant of between Construction Resources and E&amp;T and kind of the expectations for the year? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I think what I would tell you is that probably a disproportionate share of the currency impact is construction.
Mining tends to be in a lot of the world a pretty dollar-denominated business.
Oil and gas kind of tends to be as well not entirely.
So it's not 100% is Construction but it's probably disproportionately Construction.
So earlier in the year we had thought Construction would be down kind of 5% to 10%.
It'll probably be closer to the top end of that.
But outside of that I think no big shifts in what we thought was going to happen.
I said this kind of in my opening comments.
We've actually been I think pretty good at predicting what's going to happen this year I think certainly on the top line and by and large on the bottom line as well.
Agreed.
So I mean I think everyone's cognizant of how tough the macro is.
One of the key kind of tenets of CAT's business model is market share.
I was wondering if you could just talk about in the context of challenging markets how you feel CAT's executing against the other competitors and specifically maybe in North America construction if you're comfortable talking about that EMEA construction and then whatever you might feel comfortable talking about within engines.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I think generally I would say we've done pretty good on share.
It's been a fairly consistent march up year after year for about I think the last four years.
It's not always every product every quarter.
But it's a good generic comment to make.
We've done well over that time period in North America.
We've got a couple things I would say are really helping us with share.
We have excellent Tier 4 products.
I mean we are the fuel economy leader at Tier 4.
We're promoting the heck out of that.
Quality of the Tier 4 products has been very good.
Customers like them.
So that's helped us a lot and Tier 4 is and the European equivalent is essentially in those developed markets and that's very much a comment around North America.
And we've done a pretty decent job.
We've also as Doug mentioned earlier kept price increases pretty modest and that's helped.
And we've been able to do that because we have taken a lot of cost out and we've essentially reinvested that in market share and have done I think a pretty decent job.
I just would like to add here on our Tier 4 final product this is another big year for that.
We're over halfway through final here and in Europe and in all of our models we've seen an increase in fuel economy.
We've seen a drop in defects per unit and those two things going into the marketplace have really helped us offset aggressive competitors both because the dollar and because of capacity.
I really am happy with where our product stands today.
Particularly given our past history and some of these things we're going to introduce a lot of new products at once but we're in really good shape with this going forward and I think the built-in quality the lean metrics around what we measure now and the way in which we manage our factories and design are coming through nicely and we see that.
And that's been a big help to us in a tough cycle here.
Last thing I'll ask and I'll get back in queue.
In terms of what you're seeing on the pricing front from a competitive dynamic particularly North America is it staying rational? Are you seeing any kind of shifts in that regard? And that'll be the last thing I ask.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> I don't have anything in particular that's dramatically different no.
Okay.
Thanks.
Best of luck this quarter guys.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Okay.
Ted thanks.
Our next question is coming from Henry Kirn.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
It's SocGen.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Henry.
Welcome back.
Thank you.
It's good to be back.
You mentioned in the press release accelerated focus on emerging technologies.
Could you talk a little about the expectations for the level of investment required to maybe at a high level the required returns profile and the bigger picture goals there? Finance Services Division</span></strong> What we're really referring to is the ongoing number of investments around connected machines to our factories to our engineers to our suppliers to their owners and to their dealers.
We've had a number of announcements around that.
I expect to have a number more of those.
The revolution is happening around big data and data analytics and we're right in the middle of it with the idea being to connect every single one of our machines and hopefully those that aren't our machines and our customers with us in a very efficient way to raise their productivity.
And I think you'll see continued emphasis on that.
I would expect the returns actually on those to be very attractive as we go.
It's a process because we're starting from  not starting from scratch because we had a lot of that internally but developing that externally we're taking advantage of a lot of that investment that's occurred outside of our industry and is known there.
So really optimistic about it early days and I think we'll really change our customers' and our dealers' world over the next decade.
So this is really the beginning of that basis.
Thank you.
And then now that the Greek situation is at least temporarily resolved can you talk about what your folks on the ground there are seeing? And if there were green shoots how would you expect that to begin to show up in the order book? Finance Services Division</span></strong> I would say in Greece we have such a small position there.
It's such a small market.
Even in the good days it wouldn't ring any bells around here.
I think the bigger issue with Greece is the amount of uncertainty it drives in EAME and beyond that is specifically in South Europe.
Having that tone down and calm down out of the headlines every single day may help.
I think it depends on what the European Central Bank does and the individual governments going forward to have some kind of recovery in their economies.
I would point out our retail numbers yesterday while down in EAME after the United States were the best.
It's still a down market but we're not seeing total catastrophe there like we saw two three four years ago.
I would say stability is probably in the not too distant future.
I don't know when growth will return but it will.
So I think the Greece thing is one of those that needs to get behind us all in order to reestablish some kind of stability in the political environment over there which will lead then to some kind of economic stability and hopefully growth in the not too distant future.
Thank you very much.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Okay.
Next question? Our next question is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning.
JPMorgan.
My first question is just around the backlog being down 23% at this point.
Mike how feasible is it in any way shape or form that revenues could be up next year? Finance Services Division</span></strong> It all depends on what happens in the economy.
In many of our businesses we don't commonly have much of a backlog.
The entire aftermarket business Construction is a pretty short lead-time business.
So I think whether sales are up or not next year isn't necessarily driven by what's in the backlog today.
It will be more a case of where are commodity prices as we start to exit the year and that will be based on where's the global economy going.
So I don't think right now I would draw a direct link between the backlog and the sales forecast.
A lot could change in the next six months good or bad.
I'm not trying to sugarcoat it.
I'm just saying that sales next year are going to be dependent a lot on what happens in the global economy.
We're on the edge right now of what's needed for growth.
We have a pretty decent correlation particularly in the U.S.
when GDP is above 2.5% we tend to grow.
When it's about 2.5% or below and it varies by degree we don't.
So I think a decent recovery in the economy would help a lot.
I know that's a simplistic answer but it's the truth.
Well I mean I think that's fair.
And then my follow-up question would be Doug again with backlog being down 23% I was a little surprised that R&amp;D was flat year-over-year and SG&amp;A only down 3%.
What would it take for you to have to seriously look at those two line items and say you know what we're going to have to cut some of these projects that we're working on or some deeper cuts than just shutting manufacturing plants? Ann we started the year in December January hoping to actually increase our R&amp;D 2015 over 2014.
We have not done that.
In fact we took that back to flat as you alluded to as well as CapEx.
We are constantly monitoring the market long term.
You've heard me say many times in the past we have not had the availability when markets turn up and we lose market share.
We're paranoid about market share around here.
It's what drives us and drives our dealers.
I would say to see a major reduction and I'm not going to define that we'd have to see some kind of a cataclysm downwards in our top line.
And we see that we'll react as we have in the past and shown we can do that.
So that would be the catalyst.
If we see something really nasty coming or happening we'd probably go right at.
Not probably we will go right after it.
Okay.
And would you consider not repurchasing shares in the same environment or is the share repurchase a done deal? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Well the share repurchase that we talked about this morning Ann is what we expect to do for the third quarter.
I mean we've not really talked or placed any kind of forecasts or estimates or anything in the market around what we would do after that but I certainly wouldn't describe the third quarter as a done deal per se but it's absolutely what we intend to do.
What drives the buyback it drives our capital allocation everything else is really a strong balance sheet.
And with the balance sheet today at 33% 34% debt-to-cap with almost $8 billion in cash taking $1.5 billion off in the third quarter still leaves us in a great position going forward if we saw a cataclysm or if we don't.
And that's really how we look at it because we absolutely have to have that strong balance sheet to get us through growth times and times we're not growing like we have.
We've never been positioned at a time like this with that strong of a balance sheet which allows us to return some of that to shareholders.
Now we go down in the top line further we'll have to assess where we are with our capital structure and everything else and all that would play into it.
We'd probably revise it to some degree.
We've got plenty of room and plenty of years in our $10 billion authorization with $4 billion to go to get that done or not and we assess that all the time.
Ann this is Brad.
I'll just make a comment.
We're trying to act very consistent within our business model.
You know we've talked about going back to 2012 when our sales were down $16 billion $17 billion.
What we've wanted to do over this timeframe is to grow our market share to improve our quality.
We've had very little price action relative to that so the quality of our earnings is to deliver 25% decremental to 30% decremental numbers balancing all of these things in terms of what we can do.
With the work we've been able to do in our variable margin we're going to be right around 25% for that period.
We're well below 25% to 30% decremental in the first half of the year.
And so because of that we're very happy to be able to fund our R&amp;D programs and to be in a position of strength to have those when the market does turns around.
As Doug mentioned we've got close to $8 billion of cash.
Our debt-to-cap is low.
We don't have huge CapEx needs at this point in time.
And we're going to fund R&amp;D at close to the levels of 2012 which was a record year.
And we'll do all that and still have a very strong balance sheet heading into next year.
And I appreciate that all in the backdrop of a global macro environment that's very hard to call right now.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah okay.
I'll get back in line.
Thank you.
I appreciate your time.
Our next question is from Vishal Shah.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Deutsche Bank.
Can you talk about your inventory levels? What do you think the right sized inventory levels would be and how does the reduction impact by different segments? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Now Vishal are you talking about our inventory or dealer inventory? Inc.</span></strong> I would say your inventory levels.
I think you said that you're going to reduce inventory levels in the back half of the year.
What is the run rate you expect at the end of the year and where the reduction comes from? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yes.
So I think if you look at our business we a bit like dealers sometimes tend to build some inventory at the beginning of the year as we're ramping up production for the selling season.
And then when we get particularly in the fourth quarter we have a tendency to sell more than we produce and inventory comes down.
So I think a part of what you're going to see in the fourth quarter is just a little bit of a seasonal pattern for us.
That happened last year as well.
We had a pretty sizable inventory reduction in the second half.
I think if you just look at our inventory levels broadly CAT inventory we're working on lean.
We'd like kind of year in and year out to take them down for efficiency.
It would be nice if we had enough increase in volume that it caused inventory to go up from a volume standpoint but all else being equal we're working hard to improve inventory turns and be more efficient.
So I guess all else being equal I would like to see it continue to come down a little bit as we improve processes.
But and I'll make a comment on dealer inventory too.
It wasn't asked directly but I think most of what we're seeing in over the course of this year first half second half it would be more reduction in the second half.
But again I think there is some seasonality in dealer inventory that way.
It'll likely start to build again in the first quarter for the selling season.
And I don't think dealer inventories overall are out of line or problematic or anything of the case like that.
So I think reasonably speaking most of the dealer inventory reduction that was because there was too much per se happened in 2013 and 2014.
Finance Services Division</strong> With that we are at the top of the hour and I just want to thank everybody for joining us today.
We'll sign off and talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your phones line at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and will be open up for the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Finance Services Division</strong> Thank you very much and good morning and welcome everyone to our third quarter conference call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Finance Services.
And we have quite a few people with us today on the call.
Doug Oberhelman our Chairman and CEO; Brad Halverson our Group President and CFO; Jim Umpleby our Group President responsible for Energy &amp; Transportation; Rob Charter our Group President responsible for Dealer Support; and somebody you'll probably be getting to know a lot better Amy Campbell.
She effective November 1 becomes our Director of Investor Relations.
So we're going to do today's conference call a little bit differently than we have in the past.
We're going be going through a slide deck.
And if you don't have that in front of you right now it's available on our website caterpillar.com and it's where the conference call link is for the webcast and it's under Events and Presentations and it's also in the Quarterly Results section.
So I'll go through the forward-looking statements and if you need to get that please do.
So this call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call without the expressed written consent of Caterpillar is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting it in the Investor section of our caterpillar.com website and that will be in the section labeled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that involves risks uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors that either individually or in the aggregate could make actual results differ materially from our projections that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A risk factors of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC in February of this year also in the forward-looking statement language in today's release.
It's also on page two of this morning's slide deck.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in our financial release as well and at the end of our presentation material.
And again all that's been posted at the caterpillar.com website.
Okay.
With that let's get started with the slide deck and if I could ask you to flip to page three.
The page numbers are at the bottom of each page.
So the first page is the agenda to the discussion.
I'll be going over third quarter results the 2015 outlook and the preliminary view of 2016.
That will go fairly quickly then I'll turn it over to Doug Oberhelman and he'll walk through kind of business conditions in our segments and key industries actions we've taken progress we've made and the things we're doing to protect the future of the company.
So with that let's turn to page four.
And I'm going to start off with something again a little different.
If you look to the bottom right-hand corner of the slide  well first at the top of the slide we have sales and revenues profit per share profit per share without restructuring costs.
So $13.5 billion in the third quarter a year ago $11 billion in sales and revenues this third quarter as a decline of about 19% or $2.5 billion.
About 14% of that is volume.
About 3.5% of that was currency.
Profit per share all-in dropped $1.01 from $1.63 to $0.62 and excluding restructuring costs the similar amount down $0.97 from $1.72 to $0.75.
Now down the bottom right-hand corner I have a comment and it's not year-over-year.
The comment is kind of relative to probably the expectations that we had going into the quarter and probably the expectations that you had going into the quarter.
We had two items that we didn't really expect that are of some significance here.
One is lower incentive compensation.
And that's because we lowered the outlook.
Our previous outlook excluding restructuring costs was $5.
The current forecast excluding restructuring is $4.60 and that means that incentive comp is going be lower.
And we made a year-to-date adjustment to that expense in the third quarter.
That was actually favorable for profit about $0.09 a share.
The flip side of that is we had currency translation hedging losses on our non-U.S.
assets and liabilities.
And that was about $135 million negative in the quarter.
Now this is not what runs through our operating profit.
It's not the translation impact on sales and cost.
This is sort of your net monetary position.
You have an asset or liability position in foreign currencies or operations outside the U.S.
We had losses in this quarter of about $135 million.
And a lot of that was from Brazil and China where currencies weakened during the quarter.
We don't forecast that.
We tend not to forecast short-term currency movements and so versus where we were at the end of July when we talked about our full-year forecast that was new news.
So now let's step back a little bit and talk about the change quarter-over-quarter.
Again sales down 19%.
That was mostly lower volume.
The negative currency about 3.5% and we also had a small change in price realization negative about 0.5%.
And it's certainly a tough environment for pricing out there.
Volume down it's very competitive and the strong dollar is not helping that situation.
Now third quarter of last year sales were still pretty strong in our businesses that support oil customers.
And it was also a good quarter a year ago for locomotive sales in our Energy &amp; Transportation segment.
And both of those businesses are down this year.
Energy &amp; Transportation was the biggest contributor to that $2.5 billion decline in sales.
They accounted for about $1.4 billion of it.
Construction was also down and that was really led by Latin America and Asia.
And Latin America Brazil generally in recession difficult economic environment there.
And sales for us certainly reflect that difficulty.
And in Asia the same can be said for China slowing growth quite depressed construction equipment market in China.
Resource Industries which is again principally mining also down a bit but as the numbers there decline percentage changes have less and less impact on the dollars.
So that's a quick review of sales.
Again profit in the quarter excluding restructuring was $0.97 and with it was down $1.01.
And essentially the profit decline was a result of the lower sales volume.
Currency again was a little negative overall.
I talked about the impact below operating profit the negative $0.17 in this quarter.
It was actually a positive next year.
So the year-over-year impact of that below operating profit currency was even more.
That was offset a little bit by currency benefits up in operating profit sales translated lower but it was pretty positive for costs.
Manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A were both lower and that was a partial offset to the lower volume.
So again that's a quick run through of the third quarter.
If I could get you to move onto the next slide slide five at the top it's titled 2015 outlook.
So let's orient the slide.
On the right-hand side of the slide we have the outlook that we had in July with our second quarter financial release.
And at that point in time we were thinking this year was going to be about $49 billion in sales and revenues.
Profit of about $4.70 a share $5 without the restructuring costs.
Now you can see in the box below that a month ago we did update that sales outlook to about $48 billion.
We've kept that today.
Sales and revenues at the top end about $48 billion.
Now it says on the slide here top end of about $48 billion.
So the situation is we have a tendency to round our full year sales forecast to the nearest billion.
And most of the time that's okay when you have quite a bit of runway for the rest of the year.
At this point in the year we only have one quarter to go.
So I think it is good to remind everyone that we do tend to round it to the nearest billion.
And in this particular case we've rounded up to $48 billion from our internal forecast.
And that's by and large about the same as it was when we updated the outlook a month ago.
So if we look at the profit outlook today it's $4.60 excluding restructuring and $4.60 including some fairly substantial restructuring.
The restructuring costs for the year are about  expected to be about $800 million now.
In July with our profit outlook with the second quarter release we were thinking about $250 million.
That big increase is a result of all the actions that we announced on September 24 and I think Doug will talk a little bit more about that in a few minutes.
So if you look at the change from excluding restructuring from $5 down to $4.60 really more than all of that was due to or about all of that was due to the decline in the sales and revenues forecast.
We also had the $0.17 negative that was in the quarter for currency translation.
But partly offsetting that we have lower cost for the rest of the year.
Some because we're I think doing a pretty good job of managing costs out and some of it because incentive compensation for the year is going be a bit lower.
So that's a quick recap of the 2015 outlook.
If I could get you to go to page six and that's the outlook preliminary outlook for sales and revenues for next year.
And this is essentially unchanged from what we said a month ago in our restructuring announcement.
We think 2016 is going to be about 5% below 2015.
Now this would be our fourth consecutive down year and that's never happened to Caterpillar in the history of the company.
Resource Industries again which is primarily mining we're expecting to be down around 10% but again from a very low base.
I can tell you 10% means a lot less today than 10% meant in 2012.
Construction Industries down flat to down 5% from 2015; Energy &amp; Transportation down 5% to 10% and that's mostly not entirely but mostly oil and gas.
I think it's worth mentioning around oil and gas the biggest impact that we've seen has been for reciprocating engines and related to drilling and well servicing.
We had a pretty good healthy large backlog of those kind of products when we came into 2015.
The result of that is our sales in the first half of the year and we've talked about this before were higher than what order rates were at the time because we were working off that backlog.
That's largely behind us now.
We're going to have a very challenged second half of 2015.
So in 2015 we had a good first half for that kind of product a much weaker second half.
Essentially what we have for that kind of product in 2016 is two weak halves first half and second half.
And that's quite a bit of a change year-over-year in Energy &amp; Transportation.
Okay.
If I could get you to move on then to page seven.
This is a little bit of a setup after this spot I'm going to turn it over to Doug.
And it's just a depiction of what's happened to our sales since the peak which was in 2012.
It's been a pretty difficult three years.
We think next year we'll kind of continue that.
Overall we were about $66 billion in sales and revenues in 2012.
Next year we're going to be down probably a little more than $20 billion from that level and that ends up being over 30%.
Now what makes that decline tough and I think our performance more significant is that most of that decline nearly two thirds of it has been in Resource Industries which is primarily mining and back in 2012 was without question our most profitable segment.
Another 10% of that $20 billion or so decline is a result of currency impacts.
Now I should also it's not noted on the chart but in Construction we're also down.
And fundamentally one of the things that's changed is emerging  or not emerging developing countries' construction Asia Latin America has also declined over that period.
So that's a recap and with that I'd like to turn the floor over to Doug Oberhelman.
Okay.
Thank you Mike and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
We're taking a little different approach this quarter with the way in which we go through our business.
Mike's summarized the quarter well I think and it's operationally reasonably solid particularly when you factor back in that translation loss primarily in Brazil.
There are not too many months you have a 22% devaluation in the currency anywhere in the world and that's certainly what happened in Brazil in the third quarter.
What I'd like to do is run down our key industries and kind of talk about where we see them today.
And then a little bit of a reminder of while cyclical why we like them so much over time and we'll just go through that.
So I'm going to start on page eight and talk about mining a little bit.
There's no question that the China-driven commodity supercycle drove a lot of things up in the world the last decade or so.
And now we're living off the backlash of that.
It's kind of amazing to me that even with that the amount of mining activity going on that is ore and overburdened being moved with the exception of coal is still running at a pretty high level around the world.
And that is one of the things that has kind of baffled us in terms of the replacement cycle.
As our trucks and fleet have continued to operate without replacement and frankly with a very extended aftermarket and product support levels as miners are doing what they need to do to reserve cash lower expenses we haven't seen that dramatic of an extension in the life cycles ever.
There's also a big push for productivity which we like an awful lot because it plays to our business model and as a result of that of course all that's piled on to the peak of 2012.
And we're now at levels that go way back.
The other interesting thing in terms of mining trucks at the peak in 2011 and 2012 we were producing 1 500 plus trucks a year at a run rate.
Certainly in 2015 we'll be probably 90%  10% of that 70% or 80% to 90% below that.
And with no replacement  with the replacement cycle being extended the parts demand being deferred a bit we're seeing that really come through in 2015.
I guess if there's a silver lining in the cloud as long as ore and overburden is removed the trucks are running the fleet's moving the excess capacity of mining is being used up at some point that replacement cycle will come back to us.
We won't need a boom and I don't expect a boom like we saw in the 2000s but a replacement cycle would feel pretty good and we'll be ready for that when it happens.
Long-term I think all of you are aware the population growth in the planet the demand for electricity the demand for a lot of things including coal and in fact even the U.S.
Government Commerce &amp; Energy Department's forecast fairly healthy energy growth over the next 20 years 30 years including all aspects of energy supply.
Coal nuclear not so much but certainly gas will be a big player in that as well.
So we'd expect over time this industry to come back.
And of course for surface mines we provide  can provide up to 70% of the rolling stock that goes into a surface mine.
And we've worked a lot on our underground mining that we didn't have prior to a few years ago.
So we're very bullish about this over the long-term and particularly as our business model matures here I think we'll be set up.
The problem of course is this big whiplash we've seen from the bust of the supercycle.
Moving on into oil and gas and I would draw a distinction here as we have been doing lately between oil and gas.
Oil certainly has taken the brunt of the downturn the oil price everybody does.
We've seen CapEx dry up in that market.
Our customers are adjusting.
And we see idle rigs all over the place.
Therein lies the turnaround at some point when supply drops and demand continues to grow.
But in the case of oil that's where we see.
And of course we've lived off a big backlog both in primarily in recip a year ago.
We worked through that.
And as we go into 2016 that's what Mike talked about feeling a full year impact of the oil drop and to some degree gas.
Gas has held up a little bit better.
Gas pipelines have been good.
The expansion of compression has been good and of course a conversion of a lot of coal plants to natural gas has helped that demand.
And while gas prices have come down quite a bit they haven't tanked as we've seen with the coal or oil for that matter.
So this is another really super business for us long-term with our Solar Turbine business which is a key player and provider in compression and elsewhere our recip business and over time as the world sorts out supply and demand we'll enjoy that business again.
It's a great aftermarket business as well aftermarket opportunity.
Moving into Construction and we've got this kind of by region here.
As we go through North America is okay.
And I'm on page 11.
I'm sorry.
I'm on page 10.
I beg your pardon.
I missed Energy &amp; Transportation.
I'll go back there.
Thank you Mike.
Page 10 and specifically talking about rail here.
I just went through oil and gas.
Rail has  rail primarily through Progress Rail or acquisition there in the late 2000s and the acquisition of EMD have really put us on the map internationally in the rail business.
And it's a business we like an awful lot.
It has a lot of characteristics in our larger horsepower bigger ironed products that we're used to dealing with.
And it's turned out to be a  one with a lot of growth and opportunity as well.
We've done an awful lot of restructuring primarily in EMD the last few years and are now quite competitive with the others in that business particularly internationally.
Our 2015 locomotive sales are down.
There's no question that we did not have a Tier 4 ready locomotive at the beginning of 2015.
I would tell you that we planned it that way based on some early discussions with our customers in the rail business.
A year ago it looked like demand was taking off.
Our Tier 4 locomotive will be ready the middle of next year or so.
We have orders today.
The preliminary results are very positive and in fact as we've seen the rail business soften here lately I'm kind of feeling better about our transition to Tier 4 where we'll end up.
So quite happy with that long-term.
It plays to all of our strengths here at Caterpillar with an awful lot of aftermarket opportunity that frankly the EMD predecessors really let atrophy.
So we're spending a lot of time on that.
And our Progress Rail and EMD people are getting after lots of opportunity internationally.
And certainly with a very high quality Tier 4 locomotive that shares a lot of the DNA from our recip business our normal Cat brand business will have a very competitive product there moving on into 2016.
Now I'll go to page 11 and talk a little bit about construction regionally.
North America as we said for next year flat to down a little bit.
This year we've kind of seen it slow down a bit as the year wears on.
Certainly residential is improving their statistics and news the last few days have been even better.
And non-res is building.
What we need frankly is some heavy civil and highway.
I am optimistic that we'll get some kind of a highway bill here between now and the end of the year.
I'm optimistic it will be a multiyear and we'll jump start this a little bit.
Certainly from a low base anything will feel good.
We've seen a number of states around the country enact initiatives whether it's bonds or tax increases to pay for infrastructure.
That will get going this winter and I would think by spring we can see a little uptick in that piece of it but again we're calling kind of flat to down a little in our Construction business for 2016.
Latin America led by Brazil is weak.
I was just in Brazil two weeks ago.
It's a profound slowdown there.
I wouldn't expect to see much of an upturn in  until 2016 but what the Brazilians are talking about what they typically have done in the past to stimulate their economy has been around infrastructure.
So if they get that together we can see that coming out sometime in the next year as well.
Europe Africa Middle East really a split set of stories.
Europe is actually kind of stable and positive.
You've seen that in some of our retail numbers.
We just had a big  we had several of our officers in Europe with a big distributor meeting and the news is not  is no longer totally doom and gloom but there's some stories.
Our numbers don't reflect all of that yet.
But I'd say  and some of you have heard me say this I think that Western Europe anyway including Scandinavia and Southern Europe is probably where the United States was two to three years ago particularly with the QE now I think finally starting to kick in there.
Middle East is all about the oil price and political unrest and we've seen that.
Asia Pacific is backed up for China.
And China has really is working to transform their economy.
Long-term it's going to be great.
It will be the largest construction equipment market in the world.
I like our market position there.
I like our business model there.
It's coming our way but they're finding out the impact of cycles and as we see that as well.
So long-term again population growth.
Lots of infrastructure needs hindered to some degree by a lot of debt load.
But over time that infrastructure will be demanded and needed and will be right in the middle of that as it goes.
Moving to number 12 page 12 I'd like to talk now a little bit about operational progress.
Even in this tough business climate I'm very happy to report to you and this is not news for most of you but we've had a market position increase every year since 2010 and our market position is up significantly around the world in that period of time.
It's due to several things.
I think one the quality of our product has never been better by our metrics around defects per unit.
Our dealers are performing well.
We lost only one dealer in the great recession and they're very strong today as strong as they've ever been.
And the quality of our  or the design of our produc in the Tier 4 offerings we're putting out there are strong.
So even with overcapacity in the industry and even with a very weak set of currencies for many of our competitors even in the last year our market share is up slightly around the world.
And I think that says a lot about what we can do should be doing in the downturn as we're in and then what we can do when things recover.
We're managing costs I think pretty well.
We've talked to you all for years about increment and decrement profit margins.
When we grow from $32 billion in 2009 to $66 billion in 2012 we were right in there with our incremental margins of 25% plus.
As we've seen the top line come down from $66 billion to $48 billion now this year we've been in that decremental margin area of 25% to 30%.
We announced a major restructuring obviously a month ago as we anticipated 2016 to get out in front of that.
And I would say going into 2016 we feel good about continuing on our decremental margin program if sales are down which they appear to be and will be 2016.
I talked about product quality.
Our balance sheet I can't say enough about.
We entered the recession or rather we entered 2009 with a debt-to-cap ratio of almost 60% and kind of normal operating cash on the balance sheet.
Today even after a fairly significant stock buyback the last couple of years a dividend increase of 83% during this period of time our balance sheet is strong at 37.5% debt-to-cap with about double the amount of cash in our balance sheet of $6 billion which sets us up for I think just about anything that comes at us cycle-wise or opportunity-wise in the future.
Three of our four best years in history have been the last few years in cash flow.
I mentioned the dividend the stock buyback.
And I want to emphasize that the dividend is a priority use of cash.
It's particularly the maintenance thereof.
We did not reduce the dividend in the 2008 2009 financial crisis.
We paid a dividend every year for over 20 years and maintaining that is a key use of our cash and a priority for our company.
Just a comment on Cat Financial and our captive finance business.
It's a great business model.
It's been proven through several ups and downs.
Key metrics are in line with long-term averages despite weakness in a few very critical markets.
And it's healthy well managed and risk is very much under control.
Moving to page 14.
We'll continue on this path of action items given the industry weakness.
We in fact have more capacity than we need today but that said the CapEx we've invested the last few years means our plants are modern our machines and tooling are up-to-date.
Our Lean manufacturing is progressing very well inside our plants.
And we're positioned to handle a lot more volume when recovery comes.
CapEx this year and next year will be less than half of what it was in 2012.
We're kind of in a maintenance capital mode and I would expect that to continue for a while as even when volumes pickup.
We've implemented enough substantial restructuring up until now and I think we reported the last few quarters that we've reduced about 10% of our production square footage already through consolidations and closing.
And as painful as it is our workforce has declined more than 35 000 in the last three years.
These have generated substantial cost reduction for us.
Moving on to page 15.
We talked  I just mentioned this September 24 announcement.
Very painful to our people across the world but necessary.
We anticipate between now and 2018 about $1.5 billion of annual cost reduction.
We will commit to you and I commit to you today as we did on September 24 that in 2016 we will see $750 million of cost reduction and we'll report on that specifically every quarter against that goal.
We plan on reducing about 4 000 to 5 000 of our non-production workforce before the end of 2016.
A piece of that this year our team moved quickly once we decided to  we decided that 2015 was not shaping up for a recovery and 2016 would be down.
We've never done it this way before.
Our idea was to come out with a voluntary early retirement program which was very successful follow it with a reduction in workforce and everybody ready to go with full year cost reductions January 1 2016 and we're right on plan to make that happen.
All in all we should be about another 10 000 reduction by the end of 2018.
With about another 20 facilities identified.
And we've already announced a few of those.
We'll have likely a few more by the end of the year.
And as soon as we have a final determination on those we'll be announcing them and you can expect to see them as we get to them.
Now page 16 is an important one and this is really a summary of our Lean manufacturing and what I'm calling Leaning of Everything Journey.
And I'd like to start in the lower right-hand corner with built-in quality defects per machine.
And this goes back to 2010.
We've introduced during this period particularly in 2013 and 2014 and now 2015 we'll have introduced 300 new models with Tier 4 interim and Tier 4 final product improvements.
And you will notice that our quality in terms of defects per machine has improved significantly.
Now you can also see on there that it's kind of plateaued the last year.
Well that's a plateau that far exceeds the targets we put in place back in 2010.
And I would submit these are some of the best in industry quality numbers we've seen.
This is evidence in my opinion and all of us around the benefits of implementing Lean manufacturing in our plant.
This is one of them.
And quality is right up at the front.
And you can see we've had good luck with that.
I'd like to move up to cost.
And in terms of gross margin as a percent of sales and these are right off the P&amp;L you'll see it.
And while you might think that a six-tenths improvement in gross margin isn't all that great I'd like to point out a couple things.
This is a period of time when the mix has shift significantly away from mining to smaller products.
It's also a period where we had quite a bit of higher depreciation expense built in.
So I'm quite happy that we are seeing the cost of goods sold as a result of Lean make its way through here in terms of progress.
And we see our mix return to some mining equipment later on.
We have some very good opportunities for continued improvement.
I'd like to move over to safety lower left.
And this is one that for lots of reasons we're very happy with but it's indicative again of the Lean manufacturing process and including people on the floor that do the work in the process of continuous improvement.
We started this way back in the early 2000s.
We were one of the industrial companies with the highest recordable injury frequency.
We're now at this level we think one of the best.
Why is this important? And you may not as investor appreciate this in terms of dollars and cents but a safe efficient high quality factory means a profitable place and we see that in the cost reduction and then of course our incremental and decremental pull-throughs.
Lastly one area that's continuing to frustrate me and frustrate us greatly is inventory.
And I'll be just a bit defensive here but not too much.
We've seen our top line decrease since 2012 by $20 billion as Mike mentioned.
Our inventory is also down about $4.5 billion but our turns are flat.
It's very difficult to improve efficiencies in plants when so many plants run on interim schedules.
But we've managed to maintain our inventory turnover in that period of time.
I have high expectations that we'll move from what today is about a 2.5 inventory turnover rate up smartly and our goal is 3.5 by 2018.
And I think we've talked to most of you in the past about that when we can get some consistent schedules.
And I don't want  again I don't want to sound overly defensive on that because I think we've done pretty well kind of catching the knife on the way down to reduce our inventories by $4.5 billion but we've got a lot of opportunities still to come here that's upside in terms of inventory conversion and cash and efficiency of asset turnover.
So this to me is a pretty good status of our Lean journey.
We'll continue to talk to you about this in more detail as we go forward.
Finally page 17.
And then I'll get to Q&amp;A but two big initiatives we're working on besides Lean are dealer initiative that we call across the table to drive better market performance across our businesses that  where we distribute product through dealers.
I can tell you we have about 11 or 12 different initiatives.
Everything from e-business to parts warehouse efficiencies to all kinds of things that we're very much on plan.
2016 will be our third year really our third year of implementation.
And we sure like what we see.
The dealers are pretty enthusiastic about it as well.
And I think to end on this on the most exciting piece is really around technology and data analytics.
The Caterpillar of the next few years will be quite different than the Caterpillar of the last few years.
We have a vision here that every one of our 3 million machines and engines and many of our competitive machines and engines owned by our customers are connected have sensors feeding to us.
Their owners our dealer all kinds of data that then we can predict failures.
We can predict hours of use.
We can predict maintenance levels all kinds of things that will really improve our aftermarket and our customer satisfaction.
We've invested in a joint venture called Uptake with a partner that we really like.
That business started around our locomotive business.
That's being taken to market beginning to be taken to market right now.
I would expect to see the same around our construction equipment in the next year or two.
We also have a very important supplier with Trimble who supplies the hardware on our machines that connects us to them.
So this is a very exciting area.
I won't dwell on it too much although I could.
It's one of the most exciting things I've seen in many years around here to change our world going forward and really use technology of the 21st century for our customers for them to make more money and obviously us as well.
So with that I'm going to conclude Michael and you can conduct Q&amp;A.
Finance Services Division</strong> Okay.
So with that we're ready for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
The first question is coming from Andrew Casey.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning and thanks for the new presentation format.
First I know you're forecasting mining to be down again in 2016 but I'm going to take the bait on the comment at the bottom of slide eight that was related to improved resource machine utilization in the last three months.
And I know  I think you have an internal database but it may not stretch back decades.
I'm wondering do you have a sense of the typical lag between what you are seeing in the utilization rate and when parts may start to show up? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Good question Andy.
And honestly I don't know the answer to that.
To your point we haven't been gathering that kind of data that long over cycles before.
And this has been a  mining has really been a tough industry over  well since mid-2012 actually when all the order levels started to decline.
And there's not been much in the way of good news.
I mean we're tracking truck utilization and we're tracking parked fleet.
We really haven't seen much change in parked fleet.
It's leveled out.
Not really got better or worse.
And we started seeing this trend a couple of months ago.
And we've kind of watched it each month directionally.
And it seems like there is  this is hours in a day worked by a machine.
And it's gone up each month for the last three months.
Hopefully that's the beginning of a trend but to your earlier point we don't have a long history of tracking this.
So I would encourage you not to read too much into that.
Yeah I want to just add here that I'm  we're watching everything all this data very closely.
I'm not reading much into that.
The first signal I think we'll see and feel is when we see high hour trucks from our mining customers come in for rebuild at our dealers.
We have not seen that yet.
And that will be the first signal that when that happens that the replacement cycle although that won't be new trucks but the replacement cycle for parts and aftermarket and then the rebuild of those trucks begins.
And that's really I think the most concrete signal we'd see that we'd be past the bottom.
And right now we haven't seen that but believe me we're watching all of these and are very close contact with our mining dealers that interface with our mining customers.
Okay.
Thanks and I guess...
Thanks.
Can we take our next question please? The next question is coming from Ted Grace.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Susquehanna.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Good morning.
Mike I was hoping to maybe take a step back from Andy's question and talk about kind of the 2016 revenue expectations more broadly.
I'm wondering if you could maybe book end the 5% guidance what would be kind of the optimistic scenario.
What would be the more cautious scenario? And then I was just wondering if we could step through maybe some of the segments and understand...
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Sure.
...within Construction what you expect in the developed markets versus developing? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I'll do as much of that as I can.
First off I would say when we say about 5% I mean that's kind of our base case.
It presumes a very modest improvement in kind of global growth.
Nothing that would be significant enough to really drive an upturn.
So I would say our view is that's pretty balanced.
I think if we got some recovery in China or better U.S.
growth or maybe more energy demand that could be  those could be positives.
Some kind of a recession or a mistake by the Fed or the ECB that kind of drove down the economy I guess could be on the downside.
We're also not expecting much in the way of commodity prices.
Kind of by and large  I'm not saying exactly where we are today but by and large around the levels that we're at today on commodities is pretty much what we're thinking around next year.
And that's the same for currencies.
We're not expecting the dollar to get materially stronger or weaker.
So I think our view right now is it's pretty balanced.
I think in construction we have it  let's just say probably reasonably flat to slightly down in most places in the world.
Brazil is very weak.
China is very weak but they were in 2015 as well.
In fact the business is down so far in those two countries in particular that just the size and scope for it to have much significance in terms of a dollar decline next year is a bit diminished.
And I think  so I think Construction not a lot of change from kind of where we've been this year.
I think in terms of mining it's just a really tough environment out there and I think our forecast is reflective of what mining companies are saying about cutting CapEx a bit further.
That said the new equipment sales are so low right now if it declined another  if new equipment sales declined another 5% or 10% the dollar amount of that is  I probably wouldn't use the word de minimis but it's not very much because it's down so far.
And I think that's an industry that  it doesn't tend to move in small increments.
So the upside to that is if it turned around and we started to see some of the things that Doug talked about maybe more rebuilds or some uplift in commodity prices that could be a help.
But for now we're certainly not forecasting any of that.
For Energy &amp; Transportation really the big down next year is in a lot of ways absence of a good first half of 2015 in really the recip side of oil and gas or well servicing and drilling.
We have a pretty low year this year already for rail after the 2014 peak and the  not having a Tier 4 locomotive for this year.
We'll have one next year.
So I wouldn't see massive deterioration in other areas outside of that.
Just as it relates to the Middle East with lower oil prices some other machinery companies have talked about challenges there.
Should we expect that? Do you think that is a risk to that part of the world? And I will jump back in queue after that.
Yeah yeah hi.
This is Jim Umpleby.
We really don't see that as a major risk as Mike mentioned earlier the major declines we've seen have been in well servicing and drilling.
That's primarily a North American story.
So I don't see a major risk there.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah.
And in Construction? Finance Services Division</span></strong> I think kind of the same thing.
Probably some downside risk particularly in places like Saudi Arabia where construction is  they tend to have invested and it has held up.
I'm going to sort of pre-ask or answer another question or ask Jim to answer it.
I know via e-mail we've gotten several questions on Solar.
I think there's a general concern that investors have about our Turbine business.
It's an excellent business.
It's done very well and this morning we talked about it being down next year as a part of Energy &amp; Transportation but less than 10%.
So I think I'll pitch that back to Jim to maybe add a little more color on.
Sure Mike.
As we've said Energy &amp; Transportation is expected to be down between 5% and 10% in 2016 and we've said that the primary driver of that decline is oil and gas.
Again as we've said the primary driver there is reduced sales into drilling and well servicing.
Our Solar business is made up of three major categories oil and gas power generation and customer services.
That oil and gas business can really be separated between oil production which is primarily generator set that we sell offshore and that business is certainly down.
Projects have been delayed and we've seen that translate into lower sales.
On the other hand our gas compression business at Solar is doing quite well.
A lot of that is driven by the very robust activity in large interstate pipelines being built primarily in North America and that's really being fed by a combination of fuel switching to natural gas.
And also the fact that the new LNG export facilities have to be fed.
So again that business is quite strong.
The customer service is part of the business as you all know I think an important part of Solar's business.
While oil companies are starting to squeeze our maintenance budgets turbines are not being taken out of operation.
They're still operating.
That still requires parts and overhaul and field service.
So that business is expected to hold up fairly well as is our power generation business.
Super helpful guys.
Good luck this quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
Can we take our next question please? The next question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Hi.
Thanks for the question.
I guess just sorry back on E&amp;T.
You talked about your sales decline.
I guess when I looked at the profitability of the quarter within E&amp;T I was surprised your margins held up as well because I think there is a broader concern that that business is overearning with where oil and gas was.
So I guess can you Jim help us think about how we think about the profitability in 2006 (sic) [2016] (50:50)? Because I think there is a broader concern out there that what we saw in Resource margins and where it is today that that same thing could happen in E&amp;T? Thanks.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I'm going to start out with that Jamie.
First off in the quarter the big negative for E&amp;T was definitely volume in mix  or volume on sales.
But we also had a fair amount of cost reduction particularly in period costs.
I think if we look at next year in terms of at least operating margin rates and I think this will go kind of to the heart of one of the points that Doug made earlier and that is the restructuring that we're doing.
I mean we're looking at another $750 million of cost reduction next year and that will be spread across all of our segments.
And I think should be certainly a help for margins that's reasonably significant.
I think Energy &amp; Transportation is a pretty profitable business in most all of the underlying sectors not just oil and gas.
Oil and gas is definitely a good business.
And you'll see  in our third quarter of this year's results you're already seeing the major drop now in the third quarter from the recip well servicing and drilling reductions.
Those are in the third quarter numbers already.
There's nothing really weird or unusual that's kind of propping up the third quarter that I know of.
So is it I mean margins in the low double-digit range next year? Is that unreasonable given what you said? Finance Services Division</span></strong> We'll talk more about profit I think maybe when we get to the end of the year.
We still have a lot  a little bit of work to do on our sort of profit planning by segment and playing through all of these restructuring actions by segment.
So I'll defer that question maybe until January when we're ready to talk a little more about profit next year.
All right.
Thank you.
I'll get back in queue.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> All right.
Next question please? The next question is coming from Jerry Revich.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Good morning.
It's Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jerry.
Mike Jim just to dig in on the Solar discussion you have done really well in North America on the pipeline side.
Can you just talk about based on the inquiries that you have how the regional mix of the business could evolve over the next couple of years? So we have been through a pretty good build out in the U.S.
And I know you have some visibility on larger projects in other regions so maybe you could step us through.
Yeah this is Jim again.
Certainly Solar's business is quite diverse geographically.
We're active in all parts of the world.
If you look at the specific elements of their business oil production is an area which has been very dispersed for Solar.
Most of that business is outside the U.S.
On the gas compression side again right now most of that activity is in North America Canada the U.S.
and Mexico.
There is some gas compression activity in other parts of the world but the big meaningful projects are in fact in North America.
And as we look at our backlog and quotation activity it does support our outlook for 2016.
So again that takes into account what's happening geographically in all different parts of the world.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then separate question just on the restructuring program I'm wondering if you can talk about how the manufacturing footprint by region will look once you are through it in whatever broad strokes you are comfortable addressing that.
And Doug you mentioned a focus on improving inventory turns.
Can you just talk about whether the restructuring actions (54:41) facilities helps you move in that direction and if you can lay out any targets for us? Thank you.
Yeah I don't want to comment about locations and specifics yet.
As I said in my review it's a sensitive issue obviously internally with our people.
And we really want to think through those.
I would think that materially the footprint geographically would not change.
There may be a little shuffling in terms of what we make versus what we outsource but you've got to remember that most all of our construction equipment business is the higher volume machines are made in region.
So we try to run the currency zones of yen the currency zone of the dollar and the currency zone of the euro.
And we've had that philosophy for quite some time so we offset cost with sales.
To the extent that that will aid inventory turnover maybe a bit but the target that I will put out there and we've had is that 3.5 inventory turnover out there in 2017 or 2018.
And we if anything want to expedite that move it forward and I have teams in place to move that on.
But it's difficult when we have plants that are closed weeks at a time because of lack of demand.
Thank you.
Next question please.
The next question is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation then pose your question.
Yeah good morning.
JPMorgan.
My question is more around clarification.
You highlighted the fact that you can achieve $750 million in cost reductions going into 2016.
And then you talk a little bit about mix being a negative of $500 million going into next year.
Just conceptually you are not suggesting that the restructuring savings can more than offset the decline in revenue and the decremental profits are you? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Well what we're suggesting is not the impact of volume.
I mean $2.5 billion will have a variable margin decline or 5% will have a decline in margin as a result of volume.
What we're saying is what's coming out is going to be a little richer margin mix than kind of normal.
And that's that $250 million headwind.
That's kind of the difference between average margin of what's coming out and what we think is going to come out.
We will have cost reduction next year.
Just from  the restructuring is not the only thing we're working on.
But we do expect substantial as Doug said $750 million of reduction just from this restructuring action.
But volume will definitely be a negative.
So net-net that steps down in profitability.
Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah I don't think again we're not really talking profit on this call.
But I think it would be a pretty safe bet on a 5% decline in sales with negative mix that that puts a lot of downward pressure on profit.
But our $750 million of cost reduction and the other cost actions that we're working on that I would call kind of more normal they push it in the other direction.
But I think net-net it'll still be down.
And I'd still aim you Ann at the increment/decrement goals that we have.
So if we have a step down in sales obviously our normal decrement down would apply.
And that's our goal for 2016.
And then we have mix and cost reduction the rest of it as Mike has talked about.
But I don't want to lose sight of that because that's our internal planning as well.
Okay.
And then just on those lines what are you baking in for pricing for next year? Finance Services Division</span></strong> Yeah again Ann we're not  I'll make a comment without being too specific.
Again we're not done with the financial plan completely yet.
But I think given what's happened with the strength of the dollar you saw in this quarter we had a little bit of negative price about 0.5% for the company.
And that's gotten a little worse as the years gone on and I think partly what we're seeing is some of the impact of the stronger dollar on the places where it's a little harder to measure but it provides competitive pressure.
I don't see that easing so I would not be overly optimistic about price realization next year.
I also want to clarify something I said a minute ago that was wrong.
You said $500 million on mix impact.
That's right.
I said $250 million back and I was just thinking the difference between the $750 million of restructuring and the $500 million of mix is.
That piece of it is still a net negative  or net positive.
Sorry just wanted to clarify.
I agree with your comment.
We do think mix is going be negative around $500 million.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
I kind of figured that but thank you.
Finance Services Division</strong> All right.
We're slightly over on time.
Our presentation ran a little longer than our historical preamble has been but I think it was good to clarify things.
So with that we will wrap up.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Caterpillar Full Year and 4Q 2015 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mike DeWalt.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you Paul and good morning everyone and welcome to our year-end earnings call.
I'm Mike DeWalt Caterpillar's Vice President of Finance Services.
On the call with me this morning we have our Doug Oberhelman our Chairman and CEO; and Brad Halverson our Group President and CFO.
Now this morning we're going to do the call similar to what we did last October.
We'll be going through a short slide deck before we get to the Q&amp;A.
And if you don't have it yet the slide deck it's available on our website at caterpillar.com and it's with the conference call webcast link.
This call is copyrighted by Caterpillar Inc.
and any use recording or transmission of any portion of the call is strictly prohibited.
If you'd like a copy of today's call transcript we will be posting that in the Investors section of our caterpillar.com website and it will be in the section labelled Results Webcast.
This morning we'll be discussing forward-looking information that certainly involves risks and uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information.
A discussion of some of those factors individually or in the aggregate that could make actual results differ materially from our projections well that can be found in our cautionary statements under Item 1A or which is Risk Factors in our 10-K filed last February and it's in the forward-looking statements language in todays financial release and near the front of this morning's slide deck.
In addition a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can also be found in our financial release and again that's been posted on our website at caterpillar.com.
Okay.
With that let's get started if I could ask you to pull out the slide deck and flip to page three and that's the agenda of our slide deck.
I'll start this morning with a quick review of the fourth quarter and the full year of '15 and the outlook for 2016.
And then I'll hand off to Doug and he'll cover a few of the key points that we were trying to make in this morning's financial release.
So with that let's flip to what would be page four of the bottom of the slide deck.
And this is a fourth quarter 2015 results versus fourth quarter 2004.
And you can see on here that sales and revenues are down $3.2 billion from $14.2 billion to $11 billion that's a 23% drop.
And I'll kind of talk about that two ways; first about $2.7 billion of that was lower volume selling fewer things and most of that was lower end user demand about $400 million of it was related to reductions in dealer inventory.
Price realization was negative in the quarter about $124 million and we did have a stronger dollar versus the fourth quarter of '14 which causes our sales outside the U.S.
to translate into fewer dollars and in this case quarter-over-quarter or negative about $400 million.
So that's the $3.2 billion.
If you look at that by segment the biggest decline was Energy &amp; Transportation it was off $1.8 billion.
About $8.8 billion of that was CI construction and about half of that a little more than half of that was where the dealer inventory impact was most concentrated.
And then about $0.5 billion was Resource Industries and again that's mostly mining.
So the decline was across the board but a bit more concentrated quarter-over-quarter in Energy &amp; Transportation and I think given what's happened to oil prices over the course of the past year that's probably not a big surprise.
Now the profit impact of those changes - or of that decline in sales volume was about $940 million negative.
The next largest item quarter-over-quarter is restructuring costs and they were negative $585 million they went from $97 million in the fourth quarter a year ago to $682 million this year.
And a lot of that increase is a result of the fairly significant actions that we announced last September and are in the middle of implementing right now.
Costs though were favourable about $461 million and that's pretty much all in excluding restructuring versus a year ago so that's good news.
Now taxes I know it's probably a little hard to follow what's happening with taxes.
It was a very low kind of all in tax impact in both quarters.
The rate this year is a little lower than last year and we had $85 million of favourable tax items in the fourth quarter of '14 and $77 million in the fourth quarter of '15.
So a little bit hard to follow but not a massive impact quarter-over-quarter.
If we look at the profit numbers on the table up above all in profit in the fourth quarter a year ago was $1.23.
We actually had a loss of $0.15 in the fourth quarter of '15 and a lot of that was because of the significant restructuring costs.
So the all in change was a decline of the $1.38 a share.
Excluding the restructuring costs in '14 the fourth quarter was $1.35 the fourth quarter of '15 was $0.74 and we were down $0.61.
We continue to report our results both with and without restructuring costs.
We think it's important to help you understand what's going on in the business.
So that's the fourth quarter let's look to page 5 that's the full year.
It was obviously a tough year for us in 2015.
Sales were off $8.2 billion vast majority of that was lower sales volume but the stronger dollar impacted the full year in kind of the same way did the quarter.
In terms of segments; Energy &amp; Transportation was the largest decline at $3.8 billion that was oil rail electric power.
So a fairly widespread within E&amp;T.
Construction Industries was down $2.8 billion and Resource Industries $1.4 billion.
So from a profit standpoint all in we were $5.88 in 2014 all in including restructuring we dropped to $3.50 in 2015 and that's a decline of $2.38 a share more than all of that is the decline in volume.
If you take out restructuring costs we were $6.38 in '14 and $4.64 in '15 down $1.74.
And I think the story for '15 is big sales headwind $8.2 billion but we worked really hard on lowering costs.
We took significant restructuring actions and new restructuring actions began in the third quarter.
Our costs were about $520 million favourable and that's net of about $350 million of unfavorable cost absorptions so let me explain that a little bit.
In 2014 sales were pretty flat with 2013 not a big change.
So inventory didn't change much.
It was about $400 million in '14 so inventory absorption wasn't a big deal in '14.
In '15 inventory declined $2.5 billion so that's $2.1 billion more than it did in 2015 and there's a pretty significant cost impact of that sizable decline in inventory order of magnitude 350 and so without that cost would have been even more favourable.
Share count was positive to profit year-over-year about $0.16 a share and that's - a lot of that is the full year impact of the significant repurchases we did in '14 and a partial year impact of the repurchases that we did in '15.
Overall bottom line all in on tax not much change year-over-year.
So that's the full year and if you take out the restructuring costs I would just mention that our decremental operating profit margins were about 20%.
And we would consider that to be pretty good performance it's better than our 25% to 30% target.
So let's flip to the next page page 6.
Now page 6 is a little discussion on how we did versus our outlook and in this case we're since so much transpired over the year.
We're kind of taking a long look back how did we do versus what we told you we thought we would do a year ago right now in our year end call for '14.
Then how did we come out versus the outlook that we had in place at the end of October the last conference call that we had the third quarter financial release.
So if you look down the numbers in January a year ago we were expecting sales and revenues this year to be $50 billion profit per share to be $4.60 restructuring cost to be only $150 million and then profit per share excluding those restructuring costs to be around $4.75.
Now what we actually had was sales and revenues that were $47 billion and that's in the third column which were $3 billion below where we thought they would be when we started the year.
I think everything that happened with oil prices commodities in general increased weakness in China.
Most of the sales decline that we actually had in '15 we had anticipated that outlook we were down from that about $3 billion.
Profit per share is lower by $1.10 and quite a bit of that is restructuring costs were a lot higher and again that's because we announced pretty substantial new actions in September.
So excluding restructuring costs we were at $4.64 and that's $0.11 a share shy of where our outlook was when we started the year.
I think our view would be on a $3 billion sales decline even given all the puts and takes that's pretty good performance.
Now versus the last outlook that we provided in late October of 2015 we said our outlook was going to be about $48 billion and we kind of clarified that a little further as somewhere in the range of $47 billion and $48 billion.
We were looking at profit per share of $3.70 and that included $800 million of restructuring costs.
Then excluding restructuring we were looking at $4.60.
Well what we actually did was a little worse on sales.
It's been a continuing challenging environment.
Profit per share was lower and that's largely because we had more restructuring costs than we expected at the time.
Excluding restructuring we ended up the year at $4.64 actually a little ahead of our outlook.
Now I've seen a few of this morning's analyst reports and for sure we did not have the tax extenders in our previous outlook.
So that was an unanticipated benefit for us and in several analyst reports I think you picked that up.
The flipside of that is we also had a fairly sizable charge for legal matter in our fourth quarter we didn't expect that either and it really wasn't related to operations if you will in the quarter and those two items about offset each other.
So I would say all in despite lower sales we did a little bit better than our outlook and we're pretty pleased with that.
So let's talk about 2016 a lot going on in 2016.
So let's flip to page 7; first we'll do sales and revenues.
It looks to us like another tough year we don't really; we're not forecasting any real improvement in the overall world economy.
We're not banking on commodities getting better and as a result of that we're looking at $40 billion to $44 billion in sales and revenues a midpoint there is about $42 billion.
Now that is about $3.5 billion below where we were thinking last October when we gave a preliminary outlook.
I think that's probably not too surprising to most of you with continued slide in oil prices to down around $30 a share and I would say continuing concern and worry around emerging markets particularly China.
So as we look at next year and what we think will happen with sales or what we're expecting another down year for Energy &amp; Transportation down 10% to 15%.
Now quite a bit of that decline is around timing so we knew oil prices were coming down last year.
We expected that to weaken party substantially in 2014 and it did.
But most of that reduction was in the second half of the year.
We started 2014 with a pretty sizable backlog and we sold out the backlog for the first half of the year in Energy &amp; Transportation particularly in the reciprocating engines for oil customers.
So if you looked at Energy &amp; Transportation at their first half of '15 they were only down 6% versus the prior year.
Second half of the year was down 27% that is kind of how we thought it would play in it's what we signalled at the beginning of the year stronger first half weaker second half and now we see kind of that level of business continuing on with the recip oil and gas out on into 2015.
It [ph] being down 5% to 10% and Resource Industries down another 15% to 20%.
Now on Resource Industries the bad news is that it looks it's found another 15% to 20% that's really a tough business in mining very few orders.
Many of our customers are in sort of challenged financial conditions.
But what I would say is sales of new equipment in that number are quite low.
You never want to say never about upside and downside risk but there are so little new equipment in there I think it's fair to say the downside risk is somewhat limited.
In terms of profit per share we put in a table here and this is the table that was in our financial release.
There's a lot of moving parts so I thought it would help to walk through it piece by piece.
So if you look at our outlook for 2016 all in profit per share we're looking at $3.50 and that includes restructuring costs and that includes pension changes that we are making.
We're making a change in accounting principle it relates to our defined benefit plans primarily.
It's positive to our results about $0.50 a share and the way you want to think about this is we're moving from an accounting method that smoothes actuarial gains and losses from prior years into current year results.
We're moving from that to a method that's kind of more mark-to-market and will be a closer representation of what our current year costs really are and that's favourable about $425 million in and of itself and that's about $0.50 a share.
We also have another $400 million or so of restructuring costs in our outlook and that's about $0.50.
So all in excluding restructuring costs were at $4 a share so that's the outlook for 2016 on sales and profit.
In terms of profit the negatives are lower sales as we go into 2016 from $47 billion down to the midpoint would be $42 billion so at a midpoint that's a $5 billion profit drop offset by considerable cost reduction.
A lot of that as a result of the restructuring actions that we started to put in place last September.
So with that I'll turn the floor over to Doug Oberhelman.
Okay.
Good morning everyone and I do want to make a few key points as I look back on '15 and forward into '16.
Mike said it was a very tough year but when you think about everything that happened the challenges the chaos in sometime during the year with events around the world a year ago today we were expecting $50 billion in sales we ended up at $47 billion that $3 billion is quite a drop but we really only reduced our profit per share outside of restriction by $0.11.
As Mike there's a lot involved in that up and down but basically I'm pretty pleased with cost management the restructuring actions we took in the fourth quarter actually they were more aggressive than we had planned and announced and we took about $100 million more because of it.
But that will suit us up well for 2016 so our team really did a good job and it's tough to say but we're getting used to cycles here.
Our 2009 volume at $32 billion we doubled the company in three years in 2012 we're down about 30% from that now and that will serve this team very well in the years and decades ahead as everyone [ph] go through these kind of cycles in a short dates.
Secondly operationally 2015 was one of our better years.
One thing and I've talked about this before.
One of the proxies I used for plant management is their safety record and when I go to plants I look at - for that matter I want to go to customers' job sites it's the same thing.
But if there's a safe environment they tell me about it and their numbers are good chances are we're going to see high quality we're going to see engaged employees and we're going to see a profitable plant.
Safety for us hit a record level of - well recordable injury frequency in 2015 at 0.6.
which is really world-class we think for heavy manufacturing.
Our market position fifth year in a row of improvement around the world and virtually across all markets for that matter and most all products.
And I think that goes back to saying something about the quality of our product the quality of our design our Tier 4 implementation as well as our dealer distribution organization which right now is very strong.
Then finally Mike mentioned it but I would point it out again.
Our decremental operating profit of 20% if you really look at that without restructuring I think it's really 17% and while that agreement happened in the fourth quarter but that's that we wanted to do.
So very happy with that and again sets us up for '16 so well.
Our balance sheet is strong we put some of the data in the release this morning.
We saw a lot of free cash flow about $5.2 billion in 2015 another great year.
Certainly we'll see another positive cash flow year this year more than enough to cover our dividend and our CapEx.
I would say that we are scrubbing CapEx very hard and taking a really close look at every line item we'll get that number down below 15 and we're still working through it.
Finally our focus on use of cash as you know has been fairly well stated over the years but at the moment it's our balance sheet our credit rating and protecting our dividend.
With the cash we have on the balance sheet with the leverage we have today which is the best it's ever been at this stage of a cycle going back to many many of our downturns we feel pretty good about that but that's really a high priority for us today is to protect that dividend and that balance sheet.
We did a little conference call in November around Cat Financial.
We really liked that business it's strategic to us we would not have the market position we have without Cat Financial and the loyalty with our customers.
Actually in 2015 they hit a very high market share number for what they financed.
The quality of that asset portfolio is very good past due has actually improved a little bit from 2014.
Just to emphasize that we really at Cat Financial only use that captive finance company to finance Caterpillar product yellow iron or yellow iron inside others products where yellow iron is a big piece of it.
We have not varied from that strategy.
We won't vary from that strategy.
It is so key and crucial to us in delivering our market performance around the world and it's a really well managed company and really helping us through the cycles as well.
Looking into 2016 tough market I would expect bumps in the road all through the year we've taken that outlook down to $42 billion another drop of $5 billion little over 10% reduction.
About 30% off our peak in '12 and I expect to see frankly commodities of all stripes and all kinds and oil for that matter not to move too much.
It can move up or down we'll see what happens but we're really going into this with an eyes wide open realistic view of it.
We're going to end up the year with what we went into within and where we are in commodity markets and other economies as well.
Brazil Russia some of the areas where really challenged we're baking into this outlook continued tough times in a lot of those markets as well.
So I really am hoping that this is a very realistic look.
We've got some restructuring - more restructuring coming to us that will help.
We think we're about right size for right now of course we've got some other restructuring that we'll be announcing as early as tomorrow with another one - another round that will fulfil some of the things we talked about in September.
I also want to talk about inventory a little bit we think we're pretty close and really not that excessive with inventory around the world.
But we probably will see a slight some more here reduction in dealer inventory.
We've actually been producing at factory rates less than retail sales for a while and we as a result seeing dealer inventory drop $1 billion and our own drop $2.5 billion.
So we've really seen a drop here in the last year which again sets up nicely into 2016.
Then a little bit more on restructuring I think we are committed to that walk through number of 25 to 30 up and down.
As I said we're 17 to 20 in 2015.
We announced in September our goal was 4 000 to 5 000 positions eliminated.
By the end of the year in fact we were slightly over 5 000 on the 1st of January and with a few more to go yet early in '16 which should fulfil that program and our cost reduction goals.
Finally and this is the one that's a good news I feel really good about I'm going to talk about it for a minute that's our efforts around digital technology innovation and R&amp;D.
We increased R&amp;D slightly in 2015.
We're going to hold it at about that level as long as we can in 2016 and I would just point out that we also did something similar to this in '09 and '10 at the depths of the recession.
We cut R&amp;D but we didn't cut it to the bone that was the one thing we held onto as long as we could.
Those efforts in research and development that we made at that time on new products have hit the marketplace in our Tier 4 interim and final products being introduced the last of it this year.
We have seen a substantial increase in the quality of the products design of the products and acceptance in the marketplace.
Not to mention fuel economies across the board.
Today we're in the same boat post-year for with lots of powertrain development all kinds of alternative proportion methods coming through which will be coming out of products in '17 '18 and '19.
We want to continue that because we've seen the benefits of that in market share we'll see the benefits of that in the future and we're going to do all we can to hold that.
So well that's a high number and subject to cut talk if we have to and we will.
We're doing all we can to preserve that.
Then around the digital technology space you've seen an awful lot of utterances from us last year the formation of a joint venture with a key partner closer ties with other existing and traditional partners as well.
The digital transformation is incurring a reality and we are going to lead this in our industry.
While it's challenging and our cycle with portfolio if we had a better cycle we'd probably spend more we're doing all we can to extend our leadership in this area.
What we are aiming at is quite a bit different than others.
I would say we're aiming at the internet of Caterpillar things so that when we think about what we're doing with digital technology what we're doing with site preparation and technology machine guidance technology machine health technology it's all about our installed base of the 3 million machines and engines.
Rail construction mining the things we do.
We have no interest in going beyond that because we want to take care of our customers as we have been doing for 90 years.
We have the domain knowledge of what our customers use our machines to do.
We have knowledge of our machines.
Our idea is to make a ready platform lots of sensors across our machines and other brands to make sure that our customer gets the most out of their construction equipment in his or her fleet.
I suspect that in the next year or two five [ph] this will be a tremendous and we'll be talking a lot more to you about it in our investor meetings and so on as we get there.
Just this month we're commercializing our locomotive internet technology that's led all of our segments and it's now ready to go.
We're in the middle stages of taking that to construction equipment we'll have some of that ready mid-year and a lot of it by the end of the year.
But the idea here is really a lot of value creation for customers reducing downtime and lowering owning and operating costs by predicting failures by allowing them to take less passes across a parking lot for example.
Better fuel economies and efficiencies as a result all through this overwhelming amount of data that we can now receive process and feedback to our customers our dealers and even our factories in a way that we've never been able to do it before.
We have a lot to say on this there's been a lot written about it.
I'm really happy where we are and our speed to market on this is un- Caterpillar like in terms of iron development.
I'm quite happy about that that's why we've gone to outside partner.
So Mike I'll turn it back over to you with those comments.
All right.
Thanks Doug.
Paul we're ready to open the floor for our Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is coming from Jerry Revich.
Jerry please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi good morning everyone.
It's Goldman Sachs.
I'm wondering if you could talk about your expectations for solar just flesh that out for us if you could Mike this year? Comment on cadence over the course of a year within the past month we've seen pipeline MLPs cut CapEx and wondering if you could just calibrate us and what you're seeing in the order book? Yeah good question Jerry happy to do that.
So as is almost usual solar had a great fourth of 2015 we expected that and in fact they did.
Backlog for solar was despite that big shipping quarter in the fourth quarter was about the same at year-end as it was at the end of the third quarter so no deterioration in their backlog.
In fact if you look at solar's total backlog it's about the same as it was at the end of '14.
What's happened to their business is the oil piece of it has declined quite a bit the natural gas piece of it is holding up quite nicely.
We kind of signalled that we would have some reduction in solar in third quarter we did the preliminary outlook.
We said they would likely decline but less than 10% and nothing has really changed there.
Then separately Doug the last point that you made the Caterpillar Internet of Things can you talk about your expectations in five years are we looking at a significant revenue and profit pool for your business? What kind of business model should we be thinking about for you folks to monetize all of the valuable fleet that you have in the field and the opportunity to monetize that data.
How should we think about the business model? It's not going to be a software charge-off system at all.
We're going to measure it and the benefit to us will be in aftermarket parts aftermarket service.
In connection to the customer through the products that we sell and service and that's really where we're headed as opposed to a software for free basis pretty simple.
It's just it adjunct to what we're already doing in so many varieties [ph] today with aiming directly at our customers.
Thanks Jerry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question is coming from Robert Wertheimer.
Robert please mention your affiliation and pose your question.
Its Barclays and good morning everybody.
I guess a dual question on price and cost.
You've had a little bit of lower pricing although I think under your leadership Doug you guys have been very very competitive gained a lot of share and not maybe margins with price [ph] so I get that.
But you still had a little bit of a contraction price so was there anything major going on with either currency or is it inventory flush or what's doing that? Are you able to continue to get cost back from your suppliers? Are you sort of ahead of the curve or does that continue to flow through into '17 the materials moves we've already seen? Hey Rob this is Mike I'll start this out.
I'm going to start a little bit with material costs.
We've done actually very well over the last I don't know three four years on material cost.
I think we in combination taken out over $1 billion.
So over that timeframe and last year '15 was a good chunk of that.
So it's been a combination of actually lower commodity prices have helped some.
But all the work we've done on lean resourcing engineered value change our investments in R&amp;D our partnerships with suppliers that helped generated a pretty good chunk of that cost reduction as well.
So if you relate that to our price realization that was a net benefit for us in 2015.
I mean we had continued good material cost reduction and our pricing overall was pretty neutral.
It was favourable in the first half of the year unfavorable in the second half.
As we look ahead to 2016 that will probably shift down a little bit.
I think given where commodity prices are right now we're not expecting as much benefit because we don't see another big leg down.
So the material cost reduction that we have [indiscernible] on the things that we do to get it.
By the same token price realization is tougher and I think in large part or a chunk of what's going on particularly in construction is and we've had a stronger dollar over the course of the past year.
There are translation effects of that that happen immediately.
We're selling in euros in Europe and that changes but the competitive effects in the U.S.
and in countries where say we in Komatsu are competing against each other whether it'd be Latin America or Europe.
I think the impact of the stronger dollar is starting to bite a little bit.
Another thing that's hurt us on price a bit in particularly the fourth quarter and this might be a little bit hard to follow.
But actually where we're selling product matters a bit.
We have different price levels in different parts of the world.
I would tell you if you look at construction in the fourth quarter there was a large decline in Latin America like 49% I think in CI.
We tend to have better price realization there than we do in some other parts of the world.
And so that hurt the overall kind of average price in the quarter as well.
So I guess bottom line stronger dollar I think very competitive environment with volumes lower.
A little bit of negative geography for us the flipside of that is still continued good work on material costs.
Just to add a little philosophy here.
You alluded to what we've tried to do over the last few years and you're exactly right that's raised our market share.
We've had - we've done well with that.
That one will change.
This business is run field population and as long as that field population is building it allows our dealers to really survive in tough times like these and thrive in good times and that's going to continue.
But we have baked a little bit more in as Mike said for price.
We've got the dollar situation we've got excess capacity with competitors all over the place and we think we can juggle that in a way where we can continue to move our market position up while kind of guarding the margin as well but it's a balance.
It's the same balance we've been working on the last five or six years.
Thank you Doug.
Thanks Rob.
Thank you.
And your next question is coming from Joel Tiss.
Please mention your affiliation and pose your question.
I just wonder if you can help us a little bit with some first half second half color especially in E&amp;T you're going to have tough comps obviously in the first half of the year.
Can you give us any idea like revenue decline first half versus second half or anything to help us figure that out? Yeah Joel and I've mentioned and I've said a lot earlier but if we look back at '15 we had a lot more decline in the second half of the year than the first half of the year and that's because the first half of last year was helped by the size of the backlog particularly around drilling and well servicing that's pretty well gone now.
So I think it's safe to say that year-over-year in that decline that we're expecting for Energy &amp; Transportation the 10 to 15 it will probably more than that in the first half and less than that in the second half.
We don't really do the quarterly breakdown but your sentiment what your thinking is actually correct? Year-over-year a lot tougher in the first half than the second half.
I know that wasn't detailed but -- Yeah but basically I get between the lines you're saying that business is expected to be pretty much flat for the year so we can just figure out what that means for you now? No.
Down 10 to 15 but probably down more than that in the first half and probably less than half in the second half.
Any signs of any aftermarket business stabilizing that's usually the early warning signs that were deep enough into a downturn that things are starting to stabilize? Well you know on a percentage and even dollar basis the change and after-market has gone down no doubt about that over the last couple of years.
But the decline is much less than what's happened in new equipment.
The fourth quarter was down again so right white I would say there's no signs that that's really kicking up.
But the longer customers work existing machines and don't replace as long as the output tends to holdup at some point here that will need to happen so far hasn't.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Joel.
Thank you.
And the next question is coming from Ross Gilardi.
Ross please mention your affiliation and pose your question.
Yeah good morning thanks guys.
Bank of America.
So Mike I believe present your solution impose your question in 20 think I said think America.
So Mike I believe you guys normally have your annual impairment test in the fourth quarter.
It doesn't look like you've booked any impairments.
Even though you've had a [indiscernible] competitor just write off 50% of its book value.
So I'm just wondering if you could talk about that.
I mean you're speaking very candidly about all the pressures in the mining business that you've now been feeling for four years in a row.
So can you talk about the rationale for not writing down a big portion of goodwill on the back of his latest test? Yeah I can do that.
So first the current mining business is weak.
There's no doubt about that.
Second what I would tell you is we just in the fourth quarter to your point.
We completed an impairment test with what we believe is a pretty realistic forecast going forward and we had no impairment.
If there's an event that causes us or triggers us to do it again before the next fourth quarter we'll do that.
But I mean we did the math there's no impairment.
But I think one thing you need to remember about this business is it's highly cyclical.
You know where the business is at today at least from our piece of it.
The sales of equipment to that industry.
We're well below a replacement level it has to return and to at least a replacement level over time.
You do an impairment test and that's a long-term view of what's going to happen.
It's not based on what's going to happen next year.
And we've done it consistent with the way we have.
We didn't been have an impairment I don't know what else to say about that.
I'm not on the inside and our competitors accounting department so it's hard for me to comment on what they did.
And then Doug I just had kind of a bigger picture question.
I mean in the last couple of days we have seen Zoomlion bidding for Terex publicly.
And while they might not be a huge direct competitor of Caterpillar's does the prospect of a big Chinese OEM buying a listed U.S.
company potentially set a precedent that concerns Caterpillar? We saw a signing by Putzmeister I don't know three or four years ago and become really a dominant player in - maybe deep down player in concrete pumping.
Crane business yes still a pretty broad.
I would guess we're going to see more Chinese investment in United States and all kinds of things we'll see how this sorts out if it actually closes up.
But it wouldn't surprise me to see some of that.
Yeah I expect that's probably a strategy if I were sitting over there in China I'd be looking at some of this also.
So I would expect to see some of that.
I don't think it's going to be an overwhelming wave of things.
But certainly they're growing and we've always said we'll see one two or three emerging Chinese competitors of some kind and maybe that's a move like that around our industry not certainly not in it.
That we don't really play too much against any more.
Although Terex is a good supplier though the Genie brand to our dealers.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is coming from David Raso.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Evercore ISI.
I was wondering if you can just help us a bit with the cadence of the earnings for '16.
Just given the moving parts around the restructuring savings can you give us some pace on that? Even the accounting change is it simply a linear day one and just run it out per quarter just for some sense of the cadence exiting '16? Yeah David excellent question.
So on the pension that just plays into what the annual cost is and that will be spread evenly essentially over the course of the year.
In terms of the restructuring most of the - at least a short-term benefit that we were expecting for 2016 its a result of heads out and that is as Doug said on target a little ahead of on target.
So the vast majority of that will and I mean what we gave you was a full-year number so the vast majority of that has already happened as of the first in the year.
So that should be pretty good to divide by four probably not quite that.
There's a bit more still to happen but probably not massively of dividing by four because a lot of the actions are effective at the end of the year this year.
Well that's what I'm trying to think about with some of those savings upfront and the pension accounting help upfront.
When you look at the $4 number ex restructuring any help at all on how you think about the cadence and through the year? Yeah if you just look at our last couple of quarters we've been right around $11 billion.
Now the first and second quarter of '15 were higher but again that was before some of the declines that we're expecting like oil and gas.
So I think as we've kind of gone down for oil and gas now that that's out of the backlog.
I think if you look at the kind of sales cadence for next year it probably won't be massively off what a normal distribution is for us.
So probably a little bit lower in the first quarter a little bit higher in the fourth and second quarters and a little bit lower in the third quarter.
From a profit standpoint our first quarter will have a little bit below average sales likely it's a middle of winter not really the selling season.
So probably a little weaker than average so that will impact profit to the downside a little bit.
The upside of that is the first quarter is usually a pretty good of cost quarter so that usually helps the first quarter a little bit.
So we're not actually providing guidance but for the quarter.
But all in all as you do your modelling I would think about probably first quarter down a little bit from average profit probably not massively far off it.
Okay.
And last question Doug if you spoke to commodity prices you're not assuming much recovery - the end-market on much recovery.
But how are you managing for '17 saying say it another way.
If commodities are at the end of this year where they are today thinking through the inventory reduction you're targeting $1 billion at dealers.
Just how should we think about 2017 if commodities are at the end of the year where they are today? I mean take us through your thoughts on replacement demand inventory for the dealer inventory.
I mean we went up $4.5 billion $5 billion coming out of the great recession.
In the last three years we've taken $5 billion out.
So work I can't say the inventory is down a lot over the last six years.
We kind of went up we're back down.
Is taking $1 billion out enough and just again just try to set the stage a little bit how you're managing for '17? Well right now it's all hands on deck for '16 and hopefully we can get that done.
I would say around inventory and inventory turnover as we have been implementing lean in all of our initiatives around our Cat production system.
I feel - that fact that we've taken 30% off the top line and inventory down about the same amount or so just to stay even with that in a falling cycle is pretty darn good.
Once we get stable at a bottom to slightly rising turn whatever that is and a stable production schedule I suspect our inventory turnover is going to be very very acceptable in order to help us.
That's about as far as I would go with that David.
Because I don't know if oil or commodities where they'll be a year from now and I really don't want to think about that other than inventory turnover to efficiency in the plants our variable margins that's what's going to get us through that.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
David it's Brad.
Maybe one comment around how we're approaching this relative to priorities.
So we did talk a lot about our actions up until September but we had taken significant restructuring actions to that point.
But again in June really 2015 we started a process internally that led to our September restructuring effort.
By and large the cost reduction we're talking about in period cost had protected R&amp;D and our digital spend and other priorities so we've seen a significant reduction in a lot of the support areas in terms of consolidation and efficiency.
I bring this up because sometimes we get the question what are you going to do if sales continue to drop? I can tell you that we're continuing to work that plan.
We understand and got committed to our decremental pull-throughs and so if sales do drop we may have to cut those some but we have other restructuring efforts that we're continuing to look at and we'll be prepared and take action on those.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is coming from Jamie Cook.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi good morning.
Credit Suisse.
I guess two questions; one Doug you addressed a lot of I guess your confidence level with the balance sheet and protecting the dividend.
But can you give any color on how you think about sort of cash flow in 2016.
If you look at over the past few years working capital has been a big source.
I guess the concern is that sort of running out.
If earnings are down in '17 that the balance sheet is sort of at risk so your thoughts on that? Then Mike I guess if you - you gave some - a lot of help on the top line I'm just trying to think about any color you're giving on margins by segment.
As I assume resource is still not profitable and in particular E&amp;T how to think about margins as we exit the year because I think that's a concern as we approach '17 with still lot rolling off? Thanks.
That's a lot there.
I'll start with the cash flow.
We'll have reasonably good cash flow in '16 at the outlook levels.
We'll cover our CapEx again we're going to work hard to get that number down we'll cover our dividend and I suspect with positive cash flow above that.
So we ought to be able to maintain our balance sheet about where it is if not strengthen a bit more this year.
Again I'm not going to into '17 too much but the same philosophy would hold in terms of the priorities of maintaining that.
And in fact maybe if we have to get to a point in '16 or '17 to use the strength of the balance sheet to protect the dividend we will.
I've commented before about that and I think '16 at the outlook numbers were we feel pretty good about in terms of cash flow et cetera Mike you can handle the other one.
Yeah on just a little bit on by segment.
We did talk a lot about the sales change and not much about the profit change by segment.
So here is what I would say around that.
So let's just backtrack a little bit and look at 2015.
What happened in 2015 to decrementals.
Construction had an awesome year decrementals and construction were 10% so their sales were down about $2.8 billion their profit was down less than 300.
And that was despite this legal charge that they got into year.
So very good year on managing decrementals.
Resource Industries their decrementals were 36% and I think that was a little over our target range and partly because despite sales going down we spent more there on R&amp;D.
I mean it's a business that we think will be good for the long-term and we needed to spend investment money in R&amp;D there and in fact we did.
Energy &amp; Transportation they had decrementals of 24% which I think given the mix of what was down for them.
If you look at how much of their business was down because of oil and gas which tended to be an above average margin business 24% I think for them is pretty good.
In total for the Company and again this is excluding restructuring we had decrementals of about 20%.
That's kind of what we've got baked into next year.
I won't comment so - I mean overall 20%.
I won't comment so much on ROS by segment.
I mean like resource industries for example they are at or below their breakeven point right now.
So the ROS number I think is probably less meaningful than the decremental.
I think throughout the Company we're working on delivering decent decrementals and a big cost reduction that we have planned for next year both on material cost or variable cost in total and the big restructuring should help all the segments.
So I'm not going to give ROS guidance but I would say that certainly as a Company and I don't think any of our segments would be big outliers here.
We'll be at a better than our kind of our target decrementals.
Thank you.
I'll get back in queue.
Alrighty.
I think we have time for one more.
Thank you.
And the next question is coming from Ann Duignan.
Please announce your affiliation and pose your question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
My first question is just a little bit more big picture.
Given the strength of the dollar and the week emerging market economic activity that we're seeing around or maybe specifically Canada and Latin American.
Is there any risks that we start to see equipment things either used or unused [ph] kind of flowing back into the U.S.
and then thus putting incremental pressure on new equipment sales in the U.S.
Good morning Ann.
Actually our EPA regulations have sort of helped that to some degree because of the requirements of low sulphur fuel on machines that are produced in this country and the EPA emissions level.
So there may be some of that and we're worried about that for a number of years.
I think you're probably also alluding to the great market that we said we had tended to see in times past where there is currencies that are a little bit out of the line.
I think the emissions thing between us and Europe and Japan for the most part and Canada will be involved with that there may be some flow from Canada here.
But Mexico is not in that Latin America I think will probably have some amelioration what we've seen in historical levels of that.
But something we would keep an eye on.
Okay.
Thank you I appreciate that.
Then on the smoothing of the pension plan and going to mark-to-market I mean there's a reason why we smoothed in the first place in order to reduce volatility.
Are you concerned that moving to mark-to-market might end up adding to your earnings volatility through the course of the coming years? Ann this is Mike a couple of things.
Actually I can't remember the year several years ago we made a change to sunset or our kind of main defined benefit plans at the end of 2019.
Along the way we've been on a path to derisk the asset the fund balance.
We've moved to more fixed income rather than equity and that will likely continue.
It's going to sunset again at the end of 2019.
That doesn't completely take out volatility but I think the combination of we stopped adding people to that plan a long time ago.
People in that plan are retiring we're not adding people to it.
It will stop at the end of '19 with shift towards more fixed income probably be what we're thinking it would reduce the volatility.
Somewhat certainly won't take it away wouldn't suggest that at all.
But as more companies have moved to this method I think when they have a year-end adjustment for just like we will at the end of this year.
I think the market has done a decent job of understanding what's going on and that it is - what it is for what it is.
So I don't think it'll - I mean our view anyway is that it wouldn't impact so much how people are viewing us.
If there's a year-end adjustment and we like the change because it better matches what's actually happening from an expense standpoint rather than spreading it over years.
So in the current year for example and I said this before this is not a big unique OTO item that's happening in the year.
It's taking out losses from prior years that were masking operating results in the current year.
That's our view any way.
Okay.
I appreciate.
I know we're out of time.
But just where will we be and where do you think will you be at by the end of '16 on restructuring will you be 100% done or do we have costs in '17 and '18? We'll probably have some cost in '17 and a plan that we announced last September.
I think the last parts of it I think we would expect to wrap up sometime in '18.
Okay.
I appreciate.
Thank you.
Thanks Ann.
And thank you all for joining us.
We'll talk to you again at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for your participation.