Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to John Colglazier.
Please proceed.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone and I'm really glad you could join us today for Anadarko's First Quarter Conference Call.
I will remind you that today's presentation will contain our best and most reasonable estimates and information.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and our presentation slides our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
In addition we'll reference certain non-GAAP measures so be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release and on our website.
And as we do each quarter we have included additional information in our quarterly operations report that is available on our website.
With that let me turn the call over to Jim Hackett our Chairman and CEO who will discuss our first quarter results.
Jim is joined by other members of our executive management team who will be available to answer your questions later in the call.
Jim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
The operational performance of our assets and teams in the first quarter 2011 was excellent.
They continued to demonstrate the quality and depth of the portfolio that's been assembled.
The first quarter set yet another record for sales volumes with the average sales of 690 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We also announced a $1.6 billion joint venture with Korea National Oil company in the Eagleford highlighting the tremendous embedded value of our position in this shale play.
The deepwater exploration progress continued with 3 discoveries and 3 successful appraisal wells announced during the quarter.
We also achieved meaningful improvement in quarter-over-quarter lease operating expenses.
And we announced the acquisition of the Wattenberg Processing Plant the significant benefits of which will be discussed in more detail in a few moments.
Focusing first upon the operational performance for the quarter the record sales volume of 62 million barrels of oil equivalent were at the high end of guidance and liquids made up an increasing portion of these sales volumes at about 42% for the quarter.
Lease Operating Expense also improved by about 13% per BOE compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
These achievements contributed to a 12% sequential improvement in adjusted EBITDAX per BOE.
The record sales volumes included significant increases in production from our shales specifically the Marcellus and liquids-rich Eagleford plays and from our First Oil lifting at the Jubilee field offshore Ghana.
Regarding the Eagleford Shale where sales volumes increased by 30% quarter-over-quarter we secured additional takeaway capacity for both crude oil and natural gas through multiple long-term pipeline and handling agreements.
Capitalizing on the greater than 100% current rates of return in this play we ramped up activity to 10 operated rigs have expanded our infrastructure and service agreements and are well positioned to continue delivering strong growth.
We are also very pleased to welcome KNOC as a partner in the Eagleford Shale after recently closing our joint venture.
Through the partnership KNOC will fund up to 100% of capital costs for the remainder of this year and up to 90% thereafter until the carrier is exhausted which will likely be year-end 2013.
As they do this they warrant 1/3 of Anadarko's interest in the play.
Included in last night's earnings release was news that KNOC also exercised its option to acquire an approximate 25% interest in the associated midstream assets in the Eagleford.
We are eager to work alongside our new partner in our hope to expand this relationship in the future.
Turning to Marcellus Shale.
We've currently operated 8 rigs and continue to expand infrastructure on pace with our development activities.
Sales volumes increased by about 82% over the previous quarter and we recently established record growth sales volumes of almost 450 million cubic feet per day from approximately 95 producing wells.
Our emerging growth plays in the Permian Basin of West Texas also demonstrated significant sales volume due to increases during the quarter.
In the Bone Spring gross sales volumes nearly doubled over the fourth quarter 2010 to almost 16 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day comprised of more than 75% liquids.
In the shallower Avalon Shale some of our recent wells have tested at rates of between 800 and 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day also with a high liquid cut.
Evaluation of the Avalon Shale and the Wolf Camp opportunity is ongoing.
Moving to the Rockies.
The Wattenberg field and greater Denver Julesburg Basin quarter area continues to expand.
The Wattenberg team achieved another new sales volume record during the quarter as it continued to maximize the robust economics of the field and capitalize on its important liquids yield which represents about 75% of the value stream.
Also in the region we continue to test the vast potential of the horizontal Niobrara opportunity where we hold about 1.3 million net acres much of it in economically advantaged by our land-grant ownership.
We're seeing strong results in our operated program in the play and we added an additional horizontal rig during the quarter in order to accelerate these activities.
Given our premier position in the emerging Niobrara opportunity and the continued growth in the Wattenberg field we recently acquired full ownership of the Wattenberg Processing Plant by purchasing BP's 93% stake.
This purchase further aligns our midstream and upstream assets in this core area.
We expect to extract additional value from the plant through modifications and future expansions that will improve run times and significantly increase capacity and liquid recoveries.
We also plan to optimize our fields in order to improve margins increase estimated ultimate recoveries and enhance efficiencies.
The plant combined with our facility at Fort Lupton and Western Gas Partners' recently purchased Platte Valley plant provides us with a significant portion of the processing capacity in the greater DJ Basin.
The Wattenberg plant should also be an excellent candidate for a future acquisition by Western Gas Partners.
Further west in the Greater Natural Buttes area sales volumes increased by about 7% over the fourth quarter.
The field set a new single-day gross production record of 456 million cubic feet equivalent per day with an approximate 30% liquids content.
During the quarter the Greater Natural Buttes team drilled 11 Mesa Verde wells that also were deepened to the Blackhawk interval.
The early results from this program are encouraging as the Blackhawk program provides additional running room and incremental recoveries of more than 700 million cubic feet equivalent per well at an estimated development cost of less than $0.42 per Mcfe.
Also worth noting in Wyoming's Wamsutter field is that we set a weekly gross production record of approximately 13 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the quarter.
We provided additional detail on these and other assets in our first quarter operations report that is available on our website.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we have continued to keep both of our contracted rigs active as we move projects forward while working to acquire drilling permits that will allow us to resume exploration and appraisal activities.
At Caesar/Tonga the project team continues to pursue parallel paths toward a riser solution advancing the development towards First Oil in 2012.
During the quarter we successfully float tested 2 wells and each demonstrated very strong rates of more than 15 000 barrels of oil per day with completion activities underway on the third well.
As we previously announced once the completion is finished we plan to move the rig to West Africa late in the second quarter begin our 2011 exploration and appraisal program in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
At the Lucius field in the Gulf of Mexico we have a rig on location to conduct an extended well tester in the second quarter.
We expect the test to provide us with valuable insight into the reservoir's permeability lateral extent communication and acquifer support that will assist in the design of the facility and top size.
In the meantime our project teams continue to advance development planning and front-end engineering studies at Lucius.
Tuning to our international mega projects.
As you know we achieved a major milestone at quarter one with our first lifting from the Jubilee Field offshore Ghana.
Current production from this world-class field is more than 70 000 barrels of oil per day and the partnership continues to ramp up production towards 120 000 barrels per day of capacity by the third quarter of this year.
Additionally we have experienced no disruptions in Algeria and construction is progressing well at the El Merk project.
The overall project is about 75% complete and we anticipate major facilities completion and significant production rates around the end of 2012.
As you've seen in our press releases our exploration teams delivered another strong quarter with 3 significant deepwater discoveries and 3 successful offshore appraisal wells.
Turning in Ghana and the West Cape Three Points Block where we hold a 31% interest we announced both the Teak-1 and Teak-2 discoveries during the quarter.
Teak-1 encountered more than 240 net feet of oil condensate natural gas pay in Cretaceous-age reservoirs.
The Teak-2 discovery well was drilled between the Teak-1 well location and the Jubilee Unit boundary and encountered 90 feet of oil condensate natural gas pay.
The partnership is evaluating plans to appraise both discoveries later this year.
Also in the West Cape Three Points Block the partnership is currently drilling the Banda prospect to the east of the previously announced Odum discovery.
Once Banda is complete the partnership plans to mobilize the rig to drill to the nearby Macquarie prospect southeast of the Jubilee Unit.
On the adjacent Deepwater Tano Block where we hold an 18% working interest we participated in 3 successful appraisal wells during the quarter in the Tweneboa/Enyenra complex and a 4 successful Tweneboa-4 was announced by the operator subsequent to quarter's end.
The rig is now on location at the Tweneboa-2 well to conduct a drill-stem test.
The Tweneboa/Enyenra complex has the potential to be as large as Jubilee and the partnership is continuing an active appraisal program to advance the complex toward an expected declaration of commerciality later this year.
In February we announced another major discovery in Mozambique in the Rovuma Basin.
Tubarao is the fourth significant natural gas accumulation discovered in this frontier deepwater basin where we hold approximately 2.6 million acres.
Tubarao encountered more than 110 net feet of natural gas pay and opened a new play style which further strengthened our confidence in our geological and geophysical models of the basin.
Anadarko operates Tubarao with a 36.5% working interest.
Further north in the Windjammer Barquentine and Lagosta complex we are continuing to evaluate commercial solutions and advance this future mega project.
We are currently conducting quarrying operations.
And in coming months we expect to begin appraisal activities that include multiple drill-stem tests in the complex.
We are also acquiring new 3D seismic data in the basin and plan to bring in another rig to drill additional exploration wells beginning in the fourth quarter.
As mentioned earlier in this call we plan to mobilize a rig from the Gulf of Mexico to West Africa later this quarter to begin our exploration and appraisal drilling program offshore Sierra Leone and Liberia.
Plans include drilling the Montserrado prospect in Block 15 Offshore Liberia where we are the operator with a 57.5% working interest.
We also plan to utilize the rig to drill the Jupiter prospect offshore Sierra Leone and an appraisal well in our Mercury discovery.
Both of these wells are located in Block 07B-10 which we operate with a 65% working interest.
In the Gulf of Mexico exploration program we have been encouraged by some of the movement we've seen in recent weeks regarding well permits.
We are one of the few companies that has joined both the Helix Well Containment Group and the Marine Well Containment Company and we are optimistic that we will be able to receive the necessary permits to resume our exploration and appraisal drilling programs in the Gulf during the second half of this year as we budgeted.
With regard to BP oil spill of last year we stand by our stated position which continues to be supported by the findings of various independent investigations.
Consistent with past quarters we have again included disclosures regarding this event in our first quarter 10-Q filing with the SEC.
Turning to the financial results for the quarter we reported earnings of $0.43 per diluted share.
As with previous quarters we provided a breakout in the earnings release of certain items affecting comparability without which first quarter net income would have been about $0.29 per share higher resulting in adjusted net income of $0.72 per diluted share.
As I mentioned previously we generated strong discretionary cash flow of nearly $1.7 billion during the first quarter.
This was about $90 million more than our total capital expenditures of $1.6 billion which included consolidation of approximately $317 million in spending at Western Gas Partners our publicly traded Midstream MLP.
We ended the first quarter with approximately $3.5 billion of cash on hand and maintained significant additional liquidity through our undrawn 5-year $5 billion credit facility.
Our full year capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $6.2 billion to $6.6 billion not including the expenditures of Western Gas Partners.
The $600 million increase in this number from February's estimate was discussed at the March Howard Weil investor conference and simply reflects the purchase of the Wattenberg Processing Plant that we discussed earlier in the call.
With the strong first quarter results the company continues its positive momentum as we move closer to achieving the 5-year objectives that we presented in March of 2010.
As we look ahead to the second quarter we are expecting sales volumes to be in a range of 60 to 62 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This will keep us on target to meet our full year goal of 244 to 248 million barrels of oil equivalent.
In summary our shales and emerging liquid-rich growth plays are generating excellent results returns and value.
We have ample running room and continue to extract substantial value from the core operating areas throughout our phased assets.
Jubilee is performing well and our other sanctioned mega projects continue to advance toward first production.
We expect to continue a very active offshore exploration and appraisal program providing significant value upside for our shareholders.
And we are continuing to work to safely resume exploration and appraisal activities in the Gulf of Mexico during the second half of this year.
With that Tom we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions I guess beginning with the Rockies and the liquids going on out there and the growth expected.
Are there sort of any limiting factors in handling the NGL supply growth out of that base in this year or into 2012? Subash this is Chuck.
What we're doing now is from Greater Natural Buttes and Wattenberg which is our 2 large liquid production areas we're selling condensate and oil in through the White Cliffs Pipeline in Wattenberg and with trucks in Greater Natural Buttes our natural gas liquids are headed to both Conway and Mt.
Bellevue.
We have contracts in place to make those movements and feel good about our expansion capacity out there.
Inc.</strong> Okay and Marcellus I guess this rate of growth both from Anadarko as well as industry lots of I think something like 3 bs a day of new takeaway.
How is this gas going to be absorbed in the next couple of years? And do you see sort of an export market in Canada developing? This is Scott Moore from Marketing.
That gas will be consumed in local power generation as well as reduction in imports because our guys [ph] come up from the Southeast and the Midwest.
Inc.</strong> So offsetting other U.S.
gas? Okay.
Right.
Inc.</strong> And a final one.
So this whole lizard issue in the Permian any thoughts on how that plays out? Is this serious this go-around? Or is this a non-event? Subash can you repeat that question? Inc.</strong> Yes I'm sorry.
The endangered species in -- I forget the name of the lizard out there that's making its way through U.S.
Wildlife and Fish Commission (sic) [U.S.
Fish &amp; Wildlife Service].
And it looks like it overlaps Ward County and so -- where you have 3 rigs active.
So curious about that.
Subash what we're doing of course we're monitoring the situation.
And as always we take all the regulation [indiscernible] environmental hazards into account and make our development plans.
Going forward we'll deal with it as we see it.
Inc.</strong> Yes a final one if I could sorry.
The sweet spots in the Marcellus how many rigs do you think you'll run throughout this year and going forward? We'll run around 8 drilling rigs and 1 or 2 spudders and then in the JV area Chesapeake's  running around 15.
And so combined 23 to 25 rigs or thereabouts Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm going to try a couple in West Africa.
I'm not sure there are too many lizards out there but we'll see how we get on.
The Ghana obviously you mentioned the potential declaration of commerciality in West Tano.
Can you talk about -- I believe Kosmos has talked about a potential submission of Mahogany.
Can you just talk about what the current prognosis is for how many developments you ultimately see there? And if you could touch on perhaps the Tweneboa/Enyenra gas versus oil debate as to how that might impact the development concept? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
Doug this is Chuck.
With regard to Ghana on the Tweneboa side we anticipate an FPSO.
It's been mentioned in several of the newspapers and rags.
Tullow is progressing now with really good speed.
We hope to have a decision by year end as to the final development program.
The oil and gas mix is still being evaluated with regard to our appraisal program.
It looks like a very economic development in any regard.
With regard to Mahogany East that's a subsea development that we intend to tie back to Jubilee as space becomes available.
Kosmos is the operator of that.
We evaluated a number of different alternatives and landed on the subsea system.
There's still an outside chance in the event additional development or something made it just substantially bigger that we could do something else.
But right now the partnership's pointed directly at a subsea system.
With regard...
Sorry Chuck.
Should we think then about extending the plateau of the Jubilee development? Is that how should we think about that? That's the way we're seeing it right now.
And then with regard to remainder of it it'll -- we're having a lot of success as you know with our exploration and appraisal program north and east of the platform the FPSO.
At Teak and others we have the oval discovery -- I'm sorry the Odum discovery east of there.
So all that is being put together and evaluated for additional developments pending the result of the appraisal and exploration programs that are ongoing now.
Yes Doug just to remind you we're presently on Banda.
And we'll see what we have there.
Then we're going to move down to Macquarie.
And that looks to be an interesting prospect particularly with the news that came out of the Hess block [ph] recently to the south.
Is Teak potentially a stand-alone development? And if you could maybe speak to the Teak-2 in terms of the implications for maybe slightly changing unitization of the Jubilee field? Well Teak could be a stand-alone development.
We need to get out there and drill the appraisal wells.
So we don't know at this point.
But certainly it has the implications that it could be.
And of course when you put Odum and some of the others that we anticipate coming into it then you've got the makings of a stand-alone.
But that's going to require a lot of drilling and that's what we're focused on this year.
As to the Teak-2 and the unitization I might ask Chuck to deal with that.
Well the unit is put together and have taken expansion.
We have some information that we're certainly in the same zones.
And we're evaluating what the pressure information that will tell us.
But what I suspicion will happen is as we go along and start gas injection and production from Jubilee up in that quadrant will determine whether to put together or not.
Great.
So I've just got a couple of quick follow-ups if I may.
This thing with West Africa very quickly I guess my favorite question the farm the potential farm-down of your 65% working interest.
Any thoughts there before you really start to get after some of those wells? And given that Cote d'Ivoire seems to have settled down a little bit are you planning to get back there? And I'll leave it there.
On the farm down we have concluded the farm-down of 10% of our working interest.
That's all we wanted to lay off.
We signed that last Friday so that's in place and will help on the ongoing activity.
That's specifically in Liberia and Sierra Leone.
And then on Cote d'Ivoire we do have prospects that we would like to get into and drill.
Originally we had planned a 5-well program in West Africa including 2 in Cote d'Ivoire.
We're paying close attention to how the situation's developing in Cote d'Ivoire.
And as things stabilize and we have confidence that our people can work safely in country we'll be looking at when we can drill those wells.
Right now we do not have them at the end of the 3-well program in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just following on Ghana and West Cape Three Points.
The exploration phase ends in July.
Banda and Macquarie Dahoma Updip will they all be drilled before the exploration phase ends? Yes David that's the plan to get all those drilled and then to based on whatever we find roll those into an appraisal phase.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay and then if you think about the undeveloped parts of the block there's an ability to negotiate a new petroleum agreement.
Is there any update on the status for that new petroleum agreement and any idea of prospects or prospectivity on that block? I think by the time we drill finish Banda finish drill Macquarie and up-dip Dahoma that we will pretty much have evaluated what we see is the good prospectivity of the Block.
Then we'll be really focused on the appraisal phase.
We've got Teak-2 appraised.
We already have an appraisal in Odum.
And then any other success that we have here at those 3 exploratory wells will require additional appraisal.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay and then as you think about Deepwater Tano exploration as you bring these projects into development you have until 2013 half of the exploration phase there can you talk about the number of prospects that you think you'll test on the exploratory side of -- at Deepwater Tano over that time frame? Just a rough number would be useful.
We probably have 2 to 3 more exploratory wells to drill over there.
And then based on the appraisal drilling we seem to be finding additional sands at different levels beyond what we're appraising and those need to be further delineated.
So that may drive some additional activity.
But right now we see 2 to 3.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay and then in Mozambique as you think about going to the south and testing potentially any oil concepts can you kind of walk through the risk profile now that you've found an oil source but not reservoir?  Just kind of what do you think about the prospectivity is for oil in Mozambique? Yes David we're shooting at 3D.
Or we just finished shooting at 3D in the southern portion of the Block.
And if you have the maps that we put in our IR reports it's extending the existing 3D to the block boundary.
That's in the processing center now and we should have that third quarter sometime.
That's going to tell us a lot about the prospectivity and the risk.
Right now what we know is there's a petroleum system down there that's generating the liquid hydrocarbons but we did not find the liquid hydrocarbons in quality reservoirs.
So we need to see on the 3D or the quality reservoirs which we do think we can utilize some of the techniques we've developed up north that are very good at identifying good sands and then try to match up the source kitchen and migration routes into those sands.
So that'll give us a real good handle on the risk profile then.
But until we get that 3D and we're working from a very sparse grid of 2D beyond where our existing data set was and so it'll be towards the end of this year before we really can answer that question with any confidence.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Real quickly in the Niobrara.
You guys added an extra rig there heaps of acreage great returns out of the play.
What are kind of limiting factors from accelerating that? And I know you're moving to 4 but where could that ultimately go from a development standpoint? Dave this is Chuck.
If you look at the Niobrara closely what you see is the center of the Niobrara is sitting squarely over Wattenberg.
And we're actively developing the Niobrara in both the horizontal and vertical sense in and around Wattenberg and expanding out to the north with the industry.
And the industry's along with us are taking a lot of effort to evaluate and delineate the potential in Niobrara and we're in the midst of that.
1 or 2 of the 3 rigs we currently have -- or is doing work north of the Wattenberg Field proper.
And what we expect to see happening is based upon results we could see that expanded quite considerably.
But it's going to take great results before we make those decisions and we're doing a lot of evaluation work.
We have a very extensive land position.
I think it's around 1.3 million acres combined.
And so it's going to take us a while to really evaluate what we have.
And it even can move up into the southern Powder River Basin area which we have a nice land position as well.
So it's going to be a while before we can really answer that question directly but we certainly see the potential to grow extensively in the area.
Okay that's helpful.
And then focusing on some stuff you shared with us back a bit it was on efficiency gains the Eagleford Marcellus Bone Springs et cetera.
Are efficiency gains baked into your forward production guidance? And I guess maybe even on top of that is if we look at the increased EURs on a per well basis across most of your land plays are those also baked into -- is there some of that baked into your forward production guidance? Well not really I guess is the answer.
What we do is make a reasonable estimate of what our position looks now.
And then we put a bunch of engineers to work trying find a way to improve that.
And so it's our best estimate.
As we sit here today we're doing -- we're constantly doing experimentation to evaluate the opportunity to gain efficiency either speed or cost.
And as we realize those we put them into our guidance.
Okay and I guess then the follow-on to that would be what have you guys seen in the last quarter in terms of upticks? Or is that exceeding expectations? In the past you've mentioned that you thought you were maybe in later innings in the Eagleford in terms of efficiency gains but early innings in the Marcellus.
Any kind of color you can give us in terms of where we might see step shift changes going forward would be very helpful.
Well I think that still holds true.
We -- if you go back out to the Maverick Eagleford area we've recently drilled a well in 8.4 days which is improving substantially from a historical performance.
In the Marcellus we still have some room to work we think.
We've now got down to -- our average is in the order of 17 to 18 days in the most recent drilling.
So we're very excited about that.
And we think we can improve upon it but we haven't -- we're just going to -- it's a hard row to hoe and we're working on it every day to make it better.
Okay and then just last follow-on question to that.
If efficiency gains are getting better obviously on a recovery on a per well basis or returns on a per well basis that insulates you from service cost increase.
But if efficiencies are getting better you're drilling more wells and aggregate service costs go higher.
Is that something we should be thinking about with respect to CapEx going forward on the year? Could there be a bias higher? We're not planning on that.
Our goal is to at least offset the cost inflation we see with efficiency and then use our capital program for the most economical wells we have.
And so we'll move it around to adjust where we need to.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Can you talk to what you're seeing on New Zealand and how the exploration opportunity there competes relative to other areas in the portfolio? Yes Brian this is Bob.
Yes we really like what we're seeing in New Zealand.
We've got a 3D in the Canterbury Basin over what we call our Carrack and Caravel prospects.
That is have the 2D line that ties up onto the shelf.
And that is important in that that 2D line also ties into a well that was drilled tested about 10 million a day of gas and 2 300 barrels of condensate.
And when you come and look at these prospects we're looking for the same reservoir intervals that were encountered on that shelf wall come through a syncline and then back up on a big 4-way structure.
And when I said big it's like 90 000 acres of 4-way closure.
So it's very significant.
And then because it's about 7 million 8 million acres out there we think we've got tremendous amount of follow-on potential so we shot some 2D.
We're out there shooting now.
I think we just finished the 2D actually acquisition side of it to help define that follow-on potential.
So that's the Canterbury Basin.
And then we have the block in the Deepwater Taranaki.
Of course the Taranaki Basin is an established petroleum system.
Nobody's really tested the Deepwater in very methodical way.
And again our acreage position's very significant up there.
So we acquired 2D last year.
We defined we've mapped that now.
We've defined some prospects up there.
And so our plans moving forward are to drill 2 wells one in the Canterbury one in the Taranaki Basin.
We're out talking about getting rigs and discussing the availability.
It does look like there are rigs available.
The mob of course is going to be a big issue.
And what we're trying to do is line up other operators in New Zealand to help share that mobilization.
So we've got a lot of work to do before we actually sign the rig and get to drilling.
But right now we're targeting towards the end of the year early 2012 if all that comes together.
If not it'd be a year later.
And as to how they compete in our portfolio they compete very well.
The fiscal terms in New Zealand are extremely attractive.
And then as I described the potential we see very good potential there.
Great thank you.
That's very helpful.
And then secondly on West Africa in Jubilee with Phase 1 now on.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about future phases and costs relative to the first Jubilee set? Well we're actively completing all the Phase 1 wells and the production's ramped up.
We're now in excess of 70 000 barrels a day.
So we feel we're doing extremely well.
We still have 4 or 5 additional producers and injectors to complete.
And once that's completed we envision a Phase 1a which is primarily infill wells to fill in this general area that we're developing.
And then after that is done which it should be sometime next year we would potentially expand to the remainder of the field area.
And it's just to knock it out as we see production results and allow the in sort of reservoir speak the production talk to us and lead us where we need to do further development.
On the cost side Chuck you'd expect that anything that's a subsea back is actually going to be as economical or better? Yes actually it would probably be better because all of the infrastructure's in place.
When we put in the subsea system we allowed for additional drilling slots in the subsea manifolds.
And so it's pretty much just not -- drill the wells and put them online.
So there's no additional subsea or topsides hardware necessary.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Dodge with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Just a detail on Jubilee.
Is the price there indexed to Brent? Yes price there is indexed directly to Brent.
Good.
And then on Wattenberg want to make sure the liquid situation -- am I correct you said Wattenberg itself is about 30% was what I heard? I think that was Greater Natural Buttes.
Right.
I think around Wattenberg it's around 40% actually.
40% Wattenberg.
Okay and then on the Wattenberg edge and the undeveloped acreage that you're going to work on do you have any indication as to what the liquids content will be there? We have some indication.
What we're expecting particularly as we go north that it becomes actually more liquids prone as we move up toward the Wyoming border from Wattenberg proper.
And that's just based on early results from the wells we drilled.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could comment on the Macondo well if you see this thing playing out more in the courts or if you see it going to arbitration as maybe BP has indicated.
I think it's just to state what's fairly obvious is we don't think that we owe anything.
But we also realize that our investors would like us to consider some sort of approach that's perhaps a compromise from that.
And so it's a very complicated process with multiple parties in the litigation.
And while we may be interested in settling individual parties at various points on down the road here it's indeterminate until we see some groupings get together to try to get this done.
So I'd say that it's complicated.
We understand where our shareholders are at.
We feel very strongly about our position but we're prepared to come to the table under the right circumstances.
LLC</strong> And would you be required to go through arbitration as a part of this whole process or what's your thought there? I mean that's the remedy in the contract.
But Bobby Reeves is the one that...
Yes this is Bobby.
Ross it's not totally clear.
Certainly there's a dispute resolution procedure in the joint operating agreement.
BP as disclosed in our 10-Q that we filed yesterday have provided a Notice of Dispute.
It has a period of time within which management representatives will get together see if we can resolve the disputes amongst us.
If after that time is expired and the cooling-off period we don't then it's up to the parties whether or not to invoke arbitration.
It's not a clear-cut deal.
We feel good about where we are in the litigation and we're committed to staying there until told otherwise by the court.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Corbett with RBS.
I just had a quick question.
May have eluded me but did you disclose who you farmed out your position in Liberia too?  Have you disclosed that? No we haven't but it was Mitsubishi.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> [Technical Difficulty] And your next question comes from the line of John Malone with Ticonderoga Security.
Just one brief question.
Overall you saw a drop in the lease operating expenses.
How does that play out geographically? Are you seeing any kind of upwards cost pressure in plays like the Permian or the Eagleford? John we see structural cost increases in all of the basins that are very hot based on the shale plays.
However much like our drilling and completion programs we're working very hard with our field organizations to find efficiencies in our operations and improve that lease operating structure.
Effectively we've been benefited by the fact that we have had very few if any significant deepwater workovers in this quarter.
So that's helped the overall cost structure as well.
And your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up Chuck on your Eagleford and Marcellus comments that you're drilling wells in 8.4 and 17 to 18 days.
How long is it taking you to actually drill to complete to actually put on production? David we have -- it's varying frankly across the entire plays because of the infrastructure that's available to us.
In the center of our Maverick development we could put them on very quickly and we've had production inside 40 45 days from spud.
If you're out on the remote areas of the field it can take upwards of twice that.
In the Marcellus it's the same way.
If you're able to drill -- when we drill wells in our developed area with pipeline connections or on pads we can connect them very quickly.
If we drill wells in new and expanding areas it takes the time to get pipelines installed and it can be upwards of 6 months in some areas.
So it varies across the field.
And since there are no further questions I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Hackett for any closing remarks.
We just want to thank everybody for joining us today and we look forward to updating you on our second results this summer and hope you have a great day.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please proceed.
Well thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Anadarko's second quarter conference call.
Today's presentation contains our best and most reasonable estimates and information.
However a number of items could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
You should read our full disclosures on forward-looking statements available in our presentation slides our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
In addition we'll reference certain non-GAAP measures so be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release and on our website.
We encourage you to read the cautionary note to U.S.
investors contained in the presentation slides for this call and as we do each quarter we've included additional information in our quarterly operations report as available on our website.
And we'll be filing our 10-Q for the quarter later this week.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim Hackett our Chairman and CEO who will be joined by other members of our management team later in the call to answer your questions.
Jim? Good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report another solid quarter of operating results and we'll now share the significant achievements and upcoming catalyst with you.
First the highlights.
We achieved record crude oil NGL sales volumes of almost 300 000 barrels of oil per day -- excuse me 300 000 barrels per day which resulted in significantly improved corporate margins and cash flow.
We finalized the Lucius unitization agreement which further enhances the economic efficiency of this future megaproject.
We successfully tested 3 wells at the Caesar/Tonga development with each filling in at rates of about 15 000 barrels of oil per day.
And we closed the purchase of the Wattenberg plant in Colorado which will improve recoveries and enable future expansion in the DJ Basin including growth in the horizontal Niobrara play.
The depth of the portfolio allowed us to direct capital investments toward areas that offer higher liquid yields.
As a result of this focus total liquids sales volumes for the quarter were 13% higher than the second quarter 2010 amounting to an increase of 3.1 million barrels.
The increase in liquids volumes contributed to a 29% increase in adjusted EBITDAX per BOE over the same period last year.
This margin expansion was enhanced by the widening differential between WTI and Brent as more than 70% of our crude production is based on Brent equivalent pricing rather than WTI.
Our record sales -- liquids volumes also contributed more than $1.8 billion in discretionary cash flow for the quarter.
This cash flow covered our capital expenditures in the quarter including a one-time investment of $518 million associated with the Wattenberg plant acquisition while still generating more than $100 million of free cash flow.
Liquids growth was particularly strong in the Rockies.
The Wattenberg field in Colorado delivered a 41% increase in liquids volumes versus the second quarter of 2010 and continues to set production records for the field.
In the DJ Basin we are encouraged by what we are seeing from our horizontal Niobrara program.
We have significant running room with about 900 000 net perspective acres in the Denver-Julesburg area the majority of which is economically advantaged by our fee mineral ownership via the land grant.
We're running 3 rigs that are focused on horizontal Niobrara opportunities in the DJ Basin and we expect to add another rig to test multiple locations further north in the Powder River Basin where we hold an additional 360 000 net perspective acres.
In the Greater Natural Buttes area of Utah we set another fuel production record during the quarter with average sales volumes representing a 16% increase over the second quarter of 2010.
We're currently operating 6 rigs in the area and recently initiated construction on a major pipeline and plant expansion that will increase our liquids processing capacity by about 250 million cubic feet per day.
Additionally last month the U.S.
Department of the Interior recognized and supported our collaborative efforts to address the Greater Natural Buttes expansion project.
This is a significant step forward in the infield development of this area that offers tremendous resource potential with more than 6 000 identified drill sites that will provide sustained production and economic growth for the region.
Moving to our Southern and Appalachian region liquids volumes increased by 24% with oil volumes up 47% relative to the second quarter of 2010.
In the Eagleford Shale we increased gross sales volumes to approximately 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the end of the second quarter compared to 36 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to be very active in the Eagleford with 11 rigs running.
We achieved first production from 33 wells during the quarter and continued to improve drilling efficiencies and recently drilled a total of 20 wells each in less than 10 days.
In our West Texas Permian oil projects liquids sales volumes for the quarter more than doubled over the same quarter in 2010.
We've also continued to improve drilling efficiency by reducing our average drilling cycle times by about 20% or 7 days versus 2010.
Turning to the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania we're currently producing more than 500 million gross cubic feet per day from about 125 wells.
Anadarko operates 7 rigs here and we've safely reduced average drilling cycle times by about 20% relative to last year.
Now as an update on our megaprojects we'll start Offshore Ghana at Jubilee.
The partnership continues to ramp production toward capacity which contributed significantly to our increase in oil volumes during the second quarter.
Current gross production is averaging about 80 000 barrels of oil per day.
In Algeria the El Merk project is nearly 80% complete.
Construction of the central processing facility as an associated infrastructure is progressing and the project remains on track for full facility completion in late 2012.
At Caesar/Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico we recently completed flow tests on 3 wells.
Each demonstrated robust flow rates of approximately 15 000 barrels per day of high-quality 27-degree API gravity oil.
We're progressing 2 parallel riser solutions and expect to achieve first production in 2012.
With unitization and expected sanctioning of Lucius in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we're eager to add it to our future list of megaprojects.
As announced last week we'll operate the unit with a 35% working interest.
Subsequent to the unitization we also signed a production handling agreement whereby natural gas produced from Exxon's Hadrian South deal will be processed through the Lucius facility in return for a throughput fee and reimbursement of all capital associated with the expanded gas capacity.
This agreement will also result in higher natural gas price utilizations for the Lucius partnership to reduce transportation costs.
During the quarter we also completed a successful well test at Lucius.
As designed the well flowed more than 15 000 barrels of oil per day of high-quality 29-degree API gravity oil.
The test reinforced our previous resource estimates and indicated that Lucius can be developed with a minimal number of wells.
The economics of Lucius were already very compelling and the results of the flow test unitization agreement and the production handling agreement have elevated those economics to a higher level making Lucius one of the most economically efficient projects in our portfolio.
We've already begun ordering long-lead-time items including the floating truss spar production facility that will be designed with a capacity of 80 000 barrels of oil per day and 450 million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
We expect to sanction this project later this year and are targeting 2014 for first production.
Our Offshore exploration appraisal program is accelerating significantly.
We're embarking on one of the most active drilling campaigns in the company's history.
Let me highlight the activities off the coast of West Africa.
The drillship has just arrived Offshore Liberia to drill the Montserrado prospect.
Following completion of activities in Montserrado we plan to move the drillship to Sierra Leone to test the Jupiter prospect and drill the first Mercury appraisal well.
We also plan to remain very active in Ghana and Mozambique with additional drilling activities in Cote d'Ivoire Brazil and China.
In addition we expect to receive a permit to drill the Heidelberg appraisal wells soon and look forward to resuming an active program in the Gulf of Mexico.
Turning to the financial results for the quarter.
We reported earnings of $1.08 per diluted share.
As with previous quarters we provided a breakout in the earnings release of certain items affecting comparability without which second quarter net income would have been about $0.06 per share higher.
Although we mentioned this earlier it's worth repeating that adjusted EBITDAX per BOE increased by about 29% versus the prior year quarter and discretionary cash flow is very strong at $1.8 billion generating more than $100 million [Technical Difficulty] Let me try this.
Let's start with the financial results and just about -- it's just a little bit back.
Just to repeat we reported earnings of $1.08 per diluted share.
And as with previous quarters we provided a breakout in the earnings release of certain items affecting comparability without which second quarter net income would have been about $0.06 per share higher.
And although we mentioned this earlier it's worth repeating that adjusted EBITDAX per BOE increased by about 29% versus the prior year quarter and discretionary cash flow was very strong at $1.8 billion generating more than $100 million of free cash flow after a one-time $0.5 billion investment in the Wattenberg plant.
We ended the second quarter with approximately $3.4 billion of cash on hand in addition to the undrawn $5 billion credit facility which has a term through 2015.
We also entered in new hedges for a portion of our 2013 natural gas production through 3-way collars and this appears in the earnings release.
As an update to the BP oil spill we remain confident in our publicly stated position that we have not recorded a contingent liability associated with this event.
We'll provide updated information on this subject in our forthcoming 10-Q.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect sales volumes to be in the range of 58 to 61 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This reflects a risk operational profile that includes assumptions for downtime related to weather and facilities.
In summary we're very pleased with the performance of the portfolio in our quarterly results and we're excited about the numerous significant catalysts in the months ahead.
We look forward to updating you to on our progress in the coming quarters.
And with that Jeff I might ask you to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  It looks like our first question of the day will come from the line of David Heikkinen.
[Technical Difficulty] Let me go ahead and move on to Mr.
Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Question related to Mozambique twofold.
One that's an awful lot of core that you cut on the Windjammer and Lagosta.
What were you targeting? And second on the Camaro if I'm pronouncing that correctly.
Is that targeting oil or gas? Yes.
Bob Daniels here.
On the core we just cored the reservoirs that we had found in the previous discovery wells.
And the idea there is to get really good petrophysical analysis rock properties so that we can put together our overall reservoir model and have a much better understanding about the flow units and fluids.
We're going to get DSTs later in the year to where we have a good idea about pressures communication compartmentalization or not.
And the whole idea is to get that data to a third party that can then do a resource certification for us through 2012.
So that's the idea.
The analysis the lab work on the cores takes the longest.
So we want to get that up front.
And so because we got a very big project here we want to make sure we got all the data that we need up front.
As to the Camaro it's not an oil project or prospect.
That's in the same area the LaBarge and Jammer area.
And we're looking for an appraisal to the Windjammer prospect and also some additional sands that we did encounter in the original well.
So it's an exploratory well from that standpoint and that should be spud the second half of the year here.
And our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> As you look at your exploratory program I wanted to hit the West African ongoing programs.
First Ghana can you talk about thoughts around extension of West Cape Three Points and any other prospects there first? Well again David this is Bob Daniels.
On the West Cape Three Points we've got an active exploration program going there.
We're on a CASA right now which we used to call the Updip Dahoma prospect.
And of course we've got the Mahogany East that we've already drilled and appraised.
We have Teak as the discovery and several other smaller discoveries in there.
And what we're trying to do in the West Cape Three Points block is to see do we have enough resources there that can be aggregated together to have another development.
And of course we have to have the exploration and appraisal work done.
We plan on getting back to Teak later this year for an appraisal well there.
We also have the Cedrela prospect that we'd like to get to.
We had a rig lined up for it and then it had an issue with the previous operator so we're looking at how we're going to get that well drilled.
But there's still additional activity on the West Cape Three Points all focused on do we have enough for another project there? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Where's Cedrela and the rig delay? Did you get an extension to the timing on the license? The operator filed a force majeure and we're going to have wait to see how that all plays out and then [indiscernible] there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then going up West Africa and Liberia and Sierra Leone the other 2 prospects Kosrou and Paon can you talk about those? I know the other 3...
Yes those are the 2 in Cote d'Ivoire.
And originally at the beginning of the year we'd said we were going to drill 3 to 5 exploratory wells in West Africa this year.
And then we dropped to 3 and that was because of the political situation in Cote d'Ivoire.
That's been settled.
We can now operate in Cote d'Ivoire where service companies are moving back in.
Our office is up and operating.
We've come out of force majeure we've contracted a rig actually to drill those 2 wells that will both start with CI-105 probably November-ish time frame.
And then the CI-103 which is the Paon prospect will be followed thereafter immediately.
So we have the first 2 slots on the rig that's coming.
And we do expect at least the first one to spud this year and probably the second one to at least spud this year.
They're good prospects they look very similar to the Jubilee style that we're pursuing same targets with the Cretaceous-age fans coming off this shelf.
And we wanted to drill these wells for a while and now we can.
And our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Real quickly looking at your exploration slide for the Offshore campaign.
I noticed in Gulf of Mexico that Phobos is no longer on that list.
Is there any particular reason for that? And then in the Gulf of Mexico what would you kind of rank as your top prospects for this year? Yes Dave Bob Daniels again.
Phobos is just off the list because of the timing.
We're looking at 2012 spud for that nothing to do with quality of prospect or anything like that.
It's just as we looked at which ones can we move through the system as the regulatory environment that we see we need to get our appraisal work done the wells that we are already working on such as Heidelberg.
And then Spartacus looks like it's going to be an easier process to move very more straightforward.
So we've been pushing that one as an offset to the Lucius discovery.
The kind of syncline separated off to the northeast and we do expect to spud that either very late this year or early next year.
So we have a very good inventory of prospects ahead of us.
Phobos is one of them that if you looked out into 2012 is on the list.
Also we tried to put here is what's going to happen over the next 6 to 9 months.
Great I appreciate that clarification.
And then looking at your efficiency gains in the Eagleford Marcellus Bone Springs specifically can you talk a little bit about what that does as far as accelerating a drilling activity program there? And then how that impacts costs? Obviously it offset some of the costs inflation you're seeing.
But aggregate costs if you are going to be drilling more wells could be going higher.
Just trying to think about how that flows through to CapEx.
Well we're very -- This is Chuck.
We're very excited about how our drilling teams have performed in each one of those assets.
They're doing a spectacular job actually gaining more efficiency in every element of the well construction process.
What we think we're going to do or how it's playing out right now we're drilling more wells with the same rig count in the order of 40% more in several of these plays.
And we're actually getting that many more wells drilled with the same effort given risk planning which gives us a much higher net present value for the production because we get it on quicker.
And it costs less to drill any individual well.
The aggregate CapEx is going up on a program basis in a given year because we are putting more tangibles in the ground.
But our intangible costs are actually coming down.
And so that all makes the economics better.
Okay great I appreciate that.
And then just one last one if I can.
With respect to the Wattenberg plant acquisition that's allowed you guys to increase liquids yields there and have great visibility on your running room for liquids production do you look at making investments pretty substantial investment on the liquids side of things in some of these other fields like the Eagleford or potentially even parts of the Bone Springs to be able to well be able to continue with that kind of similar visibility and forward projections? Dave we're looking at each one of those carefully.
When we have plans to maximize our revenues off each one of those fields.
So additional wells and plants are under consideration in some level of progress right now.
I might mention too Dave on that is we don't see an immediate need to do a big step out with capital on those infrastructure elements in those plays like in Wattenberg.
That was a fairly unique situation where we had some very underwater contracts based on a very old plant arrangement.
And there's plenty of competition in these other areas for new infrastructure.
So I don't see the same kind of magnitude if you will.
And our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Going to try a couple if I may.
Caesar/Tonga given the delays to first oil and the success you've had with the test results is there any change to the development plan there? I seem to recall you were looking about 40 000 barrels a day through Constitution.
But it seems that the field could do a an awful lot better than that.
Can you talk a little bit about? And I've got some follow-ups please.
Doug this is Chuck.
Actually we've drilled and tested all 3 wells now and in excess of 15 000 barrels a day per well.
And what we have between Caesar/Tonga and Constitution is a minimum capacity of 40 000 barrels a day.
So if there's upside opportunity on Constitution we can push the rates up with the wells that we have.
And we also have planned an additional well down the road once we get the facility in subsea system et cetera wind down.
With regard to the riser we're progressing 2 additional solutions both of which have first production in 2012.
And so we're on schedule to make that happen and you should see that coming forward soon.
Okay so no change to the original plan Chuck.
Yes.
Okay.
My follow-up is first of all in Brazil obviously you've laid out the 3 appraisal wells here.
But what's the plan beyond that? I mean with these 3 wells are you done -- will you be done in Brazil in terms of scoping out the scale? In which case what do you see as the running room there? And finally if I could ask you this to talk a little bit about Mercury.
I guess a commentary in the release suggested that you'd be looking at DST there at some point.
Can you just maybe give us an idea of what you're looking for there? What do you think the ultimate scale of that asset could be and perhaps what the plan going forward could be? Because I guess that seems the closest to moving towards development or maybe I'm wrong there.
But now with the -- give us some color there and I'll leave it at that.
Yes Doug.
Bob Daniels.
On Brazil we've got the 3 wells going.
We're on Itaipu right now.
That's the first appraisal well of that discovery.
So whether or not that's going to move us to a sanction point is -- we'll probably will need additional drilling after that.
Wahoo towards the end of the year we'll be drilling the second appraisal well second location really for appraisal.
That could help us define now the previous DST and appraisal work what we have there are much better.
And then Itauna which will spud in September remember that's a shelf discovery post-salt potentially a simpler -- well it's clearly a simpler development potentially a simpler reservoir system.
And we try to design the program there that with very good news at Itauna we may have enough to actually have confidence we can move that one forward.
So that's what the appraisal's focused on.
We'll need something else into Itaipu.
Wahoo can help us a lot get to a decision point.
And then Itauna potentially with good news could be enough.
As to Mercury when we put a DST in there we've talked about it being Mercury as the most likely one.
But we actually have the option to DST in West Africa any of the wells that we want to.
And so we're going to drill the wells and decide then what's the best place to run a DST based on the results.
Are you prepared to give any kind of idea of what you see as a scale of the opportunity there at this point or is it still too early? We can talk about that in all of those.
These are Jubilee style or Tweneboa/Enyenra style which there are subtle differences between the 2 but they're overall the same Cretaceous fan systems coming off.
It's where you are in that overall fan system.
One you're down in the basin floor where you have more low-bake type geometries.
Another you're up a little bit more in the channelized system.
And so the combinations of the 3 we're testing we'll look at both of those.
But we're looking at things that are the Jubilee and Tweneboa style and size.
The scales are very very similar.
When we look at these at least the sand geometries and the sand scale we're looking at very similar size and scale to what we see in Ghana.
So we're looking for multi-hundred-million-barrel type objectives.
Could I just squeeze one more in very quickly? The sequential drop in volume guidance Q2 to Q3 can you just quantify what you're assuming in terms of downtime just in case we don't get kind of hurricane season that maybe you priced in? And I will leave it there.
Doug we always have and will provide sort of a risk operational profile that's inclusive of what our historical weather patterns have been and the downtime associated with those as well as what we anticipate downtime on our facilities around the world for plant maintenance and just normal outages.
And you can see from historical performance that it's particularly like in the last 3 years if you look through the second and -- I'm sorry the third and fourth quarter guidance we hit it very well on a risk basis through time.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Can you spend a little more time on the Wattenberg processing plant purchase? How much more money are you going to put into it? And how accretive it could be and when that accretion could start to show up? This is Chuck.
What we're seeing in Wattenberg just a big picture if you step back far enough the early returns on our horizontal drilling campaign have been outstanding.
And what we've decided to do is make strategic moves together all the value chain we possibly can within Wattenberg inclusive of the plants the gathering system and land.
And through that we are going to put a very comprehensive development plan together which includes the full utilization of all the plant assets we have out there which now include the Wattenberg plant we just acquired from BP the Platte Valley plant we acquired from EnCana and the facilities that we had legacy facilities that we had at Fort Lupton.
So the combination of all of those we think we can use to reduce our land pressures increase our run time and increase our recoveries both on our base production which has historically been in Niobrara and Codell and J Sand wells and take full advantage of our horizontal program in the Niobrara both inside Wattenberg and the greater DJ.
Inc.</strong> And is it fair a financial question I guess to say if I take that purchase out of the capital spending in the quarter that I would add that to your $117 million of free cash flow so that the quarter really was -- adjusted free cash flow of $635 million.
Is it fair to look at it at your company that way? That would appear to be a little early for Anadarko generating free cash flow.
I remember sort of thinking next year would be a free cash flow year.
I know it helped by $100 oil.
But it appears to me free cash flow has arrived in quantity earlier than expected.
No that's exactly the way to look at it.
And obviously that's driven by liquids volumes and our substantial price realizations related to Brent.
Inc.</strong> If I might just take one more and it's a Macondo-related question.
So when does the trial in New Orleans begin? Is there a date for commencement of the trial? This is Bob Reeves Robert.
The multi-district litigation so far Judge Barbier has indicated there will be a multiphase trial with the initial liability phase starting at the end of February of next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
You touched a little bit on the Niobrara.
But I was wondering if you could give some more color with 15 wells now producing.
Your thoughts so far which zone 2 drilled horizontally and are producing any additional color on what you're seeing.
Well as I mentioned earlier the early results look really good.
And I think the uplift in our Wattenberg liquids volumes quarter-over-quarter and  year-over-year are indicative of the type of results that we're getting.
We still think it's a little early in the game to come out and say here's a [indiscernible] because we're exploring a very large area.
As you know we have almost 900 000 acres in the DJ Basin to look at.
And so we're being very methodical about our approach to evaluating that acreage.
And then in addition we're going to start a program up in the Powder River Basin which is another 300 000 barrels so -- 300 000 acres.
So we have a very large area to evaluate.
But again our early returns look really well really good and you're starting to see that result come through on our flow volumes that we report quarter-to-quarter.
And I guess what percent of the wells that you've drilled so far the horizontal wells are focused on the Niobrara zone versus the Frontier zone or other zones? And is there a way you could characterize of that 900 000-acre position as what percent do you feel like you've drilled and have confidence in or have a view that it's repeatable in the absence of natural fractures? Well most all of the wells we've drilled so far have been Niobrara wells.
We are yet to drill -- we've drilled Frontier wells several years ago but are just about to start our campaign up in the Powder River Basin here in the next couple of months.
So the vast majority have been Niobrara.
We've actually tested a couple of other zones with one well.
We're going to continue to evaluate the Codell and the Sussex and others a potential as well in the DJ.
As to what's prospective if you look in the DJ Basin about 200 000 or 300 000 barrels of -- I'm sorry 200 000 or 300 000 acres of our position is in Greater Wattenberg where we have 3 000 or 4 000 producing Niobrara wells.
So we know it's very good in there.
We've drilled infill wells with horizontals and have then -- the early returns they look very good.
And we're out exploring we've drilled about 7 or 8 wells thereabouts along with Industry who's drilled another several dozen wells in the Greater DJ Basin.
And some of those show very good potential for very good economic returns.
Great.
And then lastly following up on the last -- the previous question the previous questioner if Brent prices stay flat or strengthen from here you'd be in a very good position from a free cash flow perspective next year.
How do you look at capital allocation? Does that make you want to hold on to Mozambique versus seeking a partner? Does it make you want to accelerate exploration offshore broadly deploy more rigs onshore U.S.? How do you think about capital allocation? Well Brian in the past we've identified our capital structure keeping our debt to cap in that 25% to 35% range.
And if we start generating free cash flow that would cause us go below that range and obviously we've got a ton of opportunities around the world.
And we would continue to invest in those opportunities because we think they provide excellent rates of return.
And do you see at all any constraints on the infrastructure side to ramping up in onshore U.S.
and how that would compare versus say an exploration ramp-up offshore internationally? Well generally on the onshore assets we're pushing really hard to expand our infrastructure position.
Wattenberg is a great example with the new plants and the pipeline that we have taking crude into Cushing.
We also have expanded substantially in our position into Marcellus.
And so each one of those are available to us.
And as we get incremental infrastructure built out we can add rigs and that's what we've been doing.
And just on the offshore international side as you might appreciate I mean I think we're in a good environment from a rig standpoint.
Return marks are a little tighter on the spot market.
But the spot is available so we can do some things there as well.
Our next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Let me hit a couple going back to Wattenberg.
Would you have made that acquisition with or without the Niobrara i.e.
does the success of the Niobrara factor into the decision to make that acquisition? It certainly had to.
We had early results that looked really good.
And we felt like it was important for us to control our destiny in the field so we could maintain very constant land pressures on our gathering system as well as reap the benefits of improved processing margins and increasing liquid volumes plant liquid volumes with the associated gas in the Niobrara.
So the whole system worked for us to put that together and it was a tremendous value proposition for us.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I'm just going to state the obvious here.
I mean you drilled 40.
You're going to drill 40 wells this year.
You just made a big plant acquisition.
You won't give us well results but it's -- you're obviously encouraged? I mean -- okay I'll move on.
I'll circle back to that some point until I get some production data from you.
Let me jump to Greater Natural Buttes.
It looked like NGLs were down quarter-over-quarter year-over-year.
Is that the cryo plant when does that hit? And is that -- you've run into some process issues up there and should that alleviate those? David what we have is Chipeta Train 2 is a cryo plant and during the quarter we've had excellent results with it.
It's been running great.
During the quarter we had electrical outage on one of our pumps on our generators there so we were down for a few weeks.
And so if you look at instantaneous rates it's equal to the first quarter.
We just had a period of downtime during the second quarter.
That's back up and running now and at full rate and  volume.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then what's the cryo plant? Are you going from 250 to 500? Train 3 will be an additional 250 million cubic feet of cryo gas processing.
LLC</strong> Is that 6 months out? Or when do you expect that to come on? What we're doing -- we hope it's in the order of about 12 months is our expectation 12 to 15 months right in there.
We're just now starting construction and a lot of the infrastructure that we need is already there.
We're building in on the same plant site that Train 2 is on.
It's just a little early days to pin down on a completion date but in the 12- to 15-month time frame.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then whoever wants to take this next one.
There's talk coming out of D.C.
about a potential tax holiday? Obviously you have a significant amount of international assets.
But if something like that were to go through is there any impact financially strategically to your operations? Well obviously it depends upon the nature of what might get passed.
But a tax holiday would be a net positive for us and we would appreciate it and look forward to it obviously.
LLC</strong> But I mean there's no potential anything we'd see in the numbers overnight? No no.
I don't think so.
I mean there's so many different things being discussed it's such a broad question.
But from a holiday standpoint if you're talking about repatriation of funds or anything like that I don't think you should expect that's anything would materially move our numbers.
I think they need to focus on restructuring the corporate tax rate as opposed to tax holidays.
That's our position formally.
Our next question comes from the line of John Malone with Ticonderoga SEC.
Just 2 quick questions.
The first one is on Nigeria.
Can you give a little color on some of the political situation there? Where things stand with Sonatrach? This is Al Walker.
A little bit on that.
We certainly like everybody else have been watching the Middle East and North Africa with a lot of interest since the first of the year.
We and Sonatrach entered into a formal arbitration process in Paris in June.
That concluded.
We continue to have discussions around TPE.
We're certainly open to ideas that could be independent of what that arbitration tribunal might decide later this year with a ruling.
We think our relations with Sonatrach despite all of that are excellent.
At the field level we continue to have really good results.
El Merk is progressing pretty much on track with the expectations now of having things completed in 2012.
And I'd say in general the unrest in North Africa has certainly been a concern.
We don't see any evidence of its impact on approximately 40% of the country's production that we operate and hopeful the issues around TPE will get resolved by year end.
And only thing I'd add to that is as you recall we had probably $7 a share taken out of our stock at the time the TPE was passed.
It would amount to more than that currently.
We don't think there's any equity value in there for a settlement or for a favorable decision.
And so from our perspective it's all upside from here.
Okay.
And just an unrelated question.
Is there been any movement on -- this is just looking farther out but the LNG developments in Mozambique in East Africa are you guys talking to buyers are you talking to EPC contractors is there anything new to look at there? Yes John we're going through all the normal processes of kicking off this LNG project.
We actually have issued pre-FEED contracts to start working through the scope and scale is of this development.
I think what we're most excited about is the results from the drilling and appraisal program.
Our exploration team they found a tremendous resource.
And we're going through the process the balance of this year and early next year to really size that up.
And once we have definition around that just how big it is and it looks fairly substantial once we see how big it is we'll start closing in on what the design parameters are for the plant and then get into the actual process of FEED and sanctioning that project in 2013 time frame.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Magner [ph] with Nazarene [ph] Capital.
There's been a lot of discussion in the marketplace recently about the possibility for a settlement with BP.
I'm not going to ask you to speculate on this for the possibility of that.
But can you just remind us where things stand? What mechanics of the arbitration process are for the companies? The status of your lawsuit against BP the cost upon the multiphase litigation the status of your lawsuit with BP? And then time line with respect to any outstanding investigations or reports or anything else that might affect the process there? Yes.
This is Bobby Reeves.
Let me just mentioned first there's a lot more detail that will be on our 10-Q and putting up to -- as we've done every quarter.
We'll update that disclosure in the 10-Q to be filed later this week.
I will refer you specifically to that for details.
But briefly there was a notice of dispute submitted by BP under the joint operating agreement.
We're in a process of time line as provided under that agreement to consider whether or not resolution is possible.
After a particular time period then either party can move forward with arbitration.
We have not reached that time yet.
And then that would invoke the time line for arbitration which at the earliest would be sometime next year.
With respect to settlement we feel good still about our position that we've talked about for over a year now but at the same time remain open to discussions.
Okay.
And then there's the discussion about how the next 6 to 9 months could be the most active in company's history of the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater exploration front.
You touched on Heidelberg.
You expect a permit there and the thought that Spartacus could move through the process quickly.
Can you just give us any additional detail on your anticipated recovery of permitting? Or any other regulatory developments that you can shed additional light on where things stand? Okay Joe this is Bob Daniels.
Just on the rest of the wells I touched on Heidelberg and Spartacus because those are the ones we operate and we're moving those through the system.
We have the most control over those.
But our partners in other wells are moving and progressing very well through the regulatory environment.
And that would include Coronado and Yucatan over in the Shenandoah mini basin.
Both Chevron and Shell are both moving permits through the system.
Vito which is one of our discoveries that we have an interest in that Shell operates they're moving permits through the system there.
And then we're presently involved with the Kakuna well which is drilling.
We have a carried working interest in that well so they have successfully obtained a permit on that.
So while the process has been slow people are getting greater clarity around what the requirements are and the EPs and APDs are moving through the system.
It just needs to move through the system on a quicker pace.
But we do anticipate quite an active second half of the year in both operated and non-operated wells and continue on into 2012.
Okay.
So just to summarize it's more the process kind of getting the kinks worked out of the process more than any other things that need to fall into place any other major...
That's exactly it.
It's just understanding the new process and then what the requirements are under that and making sure that it's a lot of give and take or back and forth I guess I would say until there's some clarity around each step of the process.
And once you've done it once then it's much easier in the subsequent applications.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Could you all touch on in China the Baiwang prospect? When are we going to spud that based on your best estimate? And remind us of sort of how long it could take to drill that well? Scott Bob Daniels.
Right now our best estimate is it will spud in the fourth quarter of this year the rig is under contract.
We are doing all of the detailed planning for the well.
And they're doing essentially sea trials on the rig to make sure it's all ready to go.
So end of the year late fourth quarter is when we look to spud that well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And how long do you think it would take to get down? Well it's probably about a 60- to 70-day well at this point.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then with the I guess results you all see when you get down there.
I mean how is that news flow going to work? Are you going to sort of be waiting for a senior take the lead there? Or would you be able to put some out independently? Scott I'll say it's just like all of our wells you have to get approvals from both the partners as well as the host government on these internationals so it will be dependent upon as you get the approval stacked up on it.
LLC</strong> Okay then and one last question.
On the Niobrara I know you all had talked about looking for a JV partner potentially.
Has that thought process changed based on what you've seen so far? And I guess coupled with the fact that as the prior questioners appropriately indicated you've got a lot of free cash flow given strength in Brent and what not.
Well this is Al Walker.
I think as it relates to a joint venture opportunity in the Niobrara like we have done with the other shale plays and other things that we've monetized we will look at that when we think the opportunity is right.
That opportunity could present itself in the near term or it may be a little longer.
I just think you have to look at the fact over the last 5 years we've monetized substantially amount -- a substantial amount rather approaching $25 billion in assets.
So we certainly have a track record of doing it the right time and I just think I would lean on that track record more than looking at it perspectively.
All right ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
I'd now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Jim Hackett for closing remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
And I appreciate everybody participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months or talking with you in our next earnings call.
In the meantime we'll continue to work hard to deliver positive results for all of you and hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier and you have the floor sir.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Anadarko's third quarter conference call.
Today's presentation contains our best and most reasonable estimates and information.
However a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements available on our presentation slides our latest 10-K and other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
In addition we'll reference certain non-GAAP measures so be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release and on our website.
We encourage you to read the cautionary note to U.S.
investors contained in the presentation slides for this call and as we do each quarter we've included additional information in our quarterly operations report and 10-Q which are both available on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim Hackett our Chairman and CEO who'll be joined by other members of management to answer questions later in the call.
Jim? Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
The positive operating results of the third quarter in addition to recent news including the expanded recoverable resource base in Mozambique continue to reinforce our confidence in the strength of the company's portfolio.
We recently replaced the significant financial risks associated with the Macondo event behind us allowing our stakeholders to focus upon the tremendous value embedded in Anadarko's assets some of which we will discuss in today's call.
We continued to achieve strong operating results during the quarter.
Total sales volumes were at the high end of guidance of 61 million barrels of oil equivalent and included a 10% increase in liquid sales volumes over the third quarter of 2010.
This increase in higher-margin liquids contributed to free cash flow of $576 million.
Our deepwater exploration and appraisal programs delivered a 75% success rate during the quarter with significant discoveries in appraisals in Ghana and Mozambique.
Our U.S.
onshore shale plays delivered extraordinary growth of more than 160% relative to where we were at this time last year.
And We're looking forward to further expand this opportunity set in the liquids-rich portion of the Utica Shale play in Ohio where we recently began joint activity on our 300 000 gross acres.
We continue to direct much of our near-term capital spending toward liquids-rich areas of our asset base.
We achieved a 10% increase in liquid sales volumes relative to the third quarter of 2010.
These results were highlighted by a 30% year-over-year increase in oil sales volumes from the U.S.
onshore properties.
We also benefited from excellent price realizations as approximately 70% of our crude volumes are based on Brent-equivalent indices.
This generated a $10 per barrel premium to WTI on our oil volumes.
With regard to NGLs the price picture is similarly positive as we realize an increase from 50% of equivalent-index crude to 62% of WTI oil pricing on our NGL volumes.
The Rockies region contributed meaningfully to the company's third quarter growth and surpassed the production milestone of more than 300 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day which is an 11% increase over last year's third quarter.
This growth was highlighted by the Wattenberg field in Colorado which delivered record sales volumes including a 36% increase in liquids volumes over the third quarter of 2010 largely driven by the success of our expanded horizontal drilling program.
During the quarter we drilled 12 horizontal wells targeting the Niobrara/Codell with excellent results.
As one example the Dolph well achieved a 24-hour daily flow rate of more than 1 100 barrels of oil plus almost 2.5 million cubic feet of gas.
Based on the positive results of this program and its projected growth we've been aggressively expanding our midstream processing and gathering infrastructure throughout the basin.
The horizontal Niobrara program holds tremendous potential and is primarily located in an acreage that is economically advantaged due to our ownership of the mineral rights throughout the land grant.
In a couple of weeks we plan to share a more detailed look at this program and the value proposition it offers for our investors.
Moving to the Greater Natural Buttes area of Utah we continued to set daily and monthly production records during the quarter.
Net sales volumes in this period were 36% higher than the third quarter of 2010.
Construction is advancing on schedule for a major plant expansion that will increase our cryogenic processing capacity in this area to about 500 million cubic feet per day resulting in an incremental gross recovery of about 15 000 barrels per day of NGLs.
In the Southern and Appalachian region we continued to rapidly increase production to drive efficiencies in our drilling and completion cycle times.
In the Eagleford Shale we're running 10 rigs and production has grown by more than 120% over the third quarter of 2010.
Our exit rate at the end of the third quarter was approximately 66 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of gross production which is a 47% increase over the exit rate in the prior quarter.
We remain focused on continuing to improve price realizations with enhanced access to Gulf coast markets for our liquids and expanded transportation options for produced natural gas.
These efforts have bolstered our rates of return in the field which already exceeded 100%.
In Pennsylvania we achieved sales volume growth year-over-year of approximately 300% from the Marcellus Shale.
We continued to expand gathering and processing capacity and our exit rate in the third quarter surpassed 600 million cubic feet per day of gross sales volumes which is up more than 30% sequentially from the prior quarter.
Our West Texas Permian oil price nearly tripled in liquids volumes relative to the third quarter of 2010.
During the quarter Anadarko participated in 15 total Bone Spring and Avalon Shale wells as we continued to test our position in these emerging growth plays.
Transitioning to our mega projects our teams have continued to make good progress during the quarter.
The Jubilee Field offshore Ghana was a significant contributor to the company's 27% growth in international oil volumes over the prior year.
All Phase 1 wells have been drilled and current oil production from Jubilee is in excess of 85 000 barrels per day.
The operator's resource estimate of Jubilee remains unchanged although some mechanical issues related to completion techniques will require a sidetrack of one of the producing wells and downhole remediation in certain other wells.
Once these completion issues have been resolved production is expected to ramp toward facility capacity.
Additionally 8 production and injection wells are expected to commence drilling in 2012 as part of the planned Phase 1a program.
In Algeria a construction of the El Merk project is 83% complete and remains on target to begin production of significant oil volumes near the end of 2012.
In the Gulf of Mexico we continue to advance the Caesar/Tonga mega project.
During the quarter a riser solution was selected and we expect to deliver first production by midyear 2012.
During the quarter we also announced a unitization agreement for our operated Lucius development in the Gulf of Mexico.
Construction is underway in the truss spar production facility which will have a capacity of more than 80 000 barrels of oil and 450 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We remain on track to sanction Lucius prior to year end with production expected in 2014.
Plus we expect to continue our exploitation program near Lucius with the anticipated spud of the Spartacus exploration prospect around the first of the year.
In Mozambique we continued to expand one of the company's largest ever hydrocarbon discoveries.
We announced that our first appraisal well of the Windjammer Barquentine and Lagosta complex was successful as the Barquentine-2 well encountered 230 feet of net natural gas pay.
Subsequent to quarter end we also announced the Camaro well that discovered new zones and included a successful appraisal that confirmed connectivity with the Windjammer and Lagosta discoveries while spanning a distance of more than 15 miles.
Based upon our 5 successful penetrations in the complex to date the static pressure connectivity and the numerous cores that have been collected and analyzed we have a high level of confidence that our acreage offshore Mozambique holds in excess of 10 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas.
And we fully expect our current recoverable resource base to increase as we continue the significant exploration and appraisal work ahead of us including the evaluation of 2 newly acquired 3D seismic data sets and expanded prospect opportunities.
To accelerate our program which includes reservoir testing and up to 7 exploration and appraisal wells over the next 12 months we're mobilizing the Deepwater Millennium to become our second drillship working in Mozambique.
The enormous scale of this resource already validated by 5 penetrations covering an area spanning more than 115 square miles led us to increase our initial LNG development plans to include a minimum of 2 "5 million tonne per annum" trains with the flexibility to expand even further.
Once this initial infrastructure is constructed it is expected to provide economies of scale that can generate significant cost savings for each incremental train.
It's an exciting project for the government and people of Mozambique and our partnership.
Our integrated project team is continuing to work with the government to certify reserves and reach a final investment decision in 2013.
In West Africa our exploration and appraisal programs also continue to deliver differentiating success.
In Ghana our partnership announced a light oil discovery at the Akasa-1 prospect in the West Cape Three Points Block.
We're also currently drilling the Teak-3 well in the same block and with continued success this area has the potential to anchor another development on the block.
In the adjacent Deepwater Tano Block a successful appraisal well of Enyenra-3A confirmed a continuous light oil column of almost 1 200 feet.
It indicated static pressure communication with the old discovery well located 4 miles updip and the Enyenra-2A appraisal well to the south.
Also on the block the partnership successfully flow tested 2 wells in the Tweneboa field.
Both tests confirmed expectations and we are now moving towards sanctioning of the Tweneboa/Enyenra complex in 2012.
Anadarko also spudded its first deepwater well in Liberian waters during the quarter as part of a 5-well program in the Liberian and Ivorian Basins.
Once this well Montserrado is complete the company plans to mobilize the rig to Sierra Leone and drill the Jupiter exploration prospect followed by an appraisal of our previous Mercury discovery.
Another rig is also expected to arrive in Cote d'Ivoire during the fourth quarter to drill the Kosrou and Paon prospects.
Turning to Brazil and the Campos Basin we are drilling the Itaipu-2 pre-salt appraisal well now and expect results soon.
We also recently spud the Itauna-2 well which is an appraisal to our previous Itauna post-salt discovery.
Now going to the Gulf of Mexico progress continues with permitting and drilling plans and we plan to participate in 6 wells through the end of the year.
These include appraisals of Heidelberg and Vito; 3 exploration wells Coronado Cheyenne East and Kakuna; and a development well at Nansen.
Looking forward to 2012 we anticipate an active Gulf of Mexico program as well with plans to participate in 6 to 8 exploration and appraisal wells.
We're also securing the necessary rigs to deliver upon this program as evidenced by the recently announced agreement on the ENSCO 8505.
Turning to the financial results for the quarter we reported a net loss of $6.12 per diluted share including the expenses associated with the Macondo settlement.
Absent this expense and certain items that are typically excluded by the investment community our net income would have been a positive $0.66 per diluted share.
It's reconciled on Page 7 of last night's earnings release.
Discretionary cash flow including a special $321 million tax benefit totaled almost $1.9 billion for the quarter which is $576 million higher than our capital expenditures.
Our efforts last year to strengthen the balance sheet and to secure ample liquidity positioned us well to reach the settlement agreement with BP.
As we've stated in our post-settlement news release we plan to initially fund the payment with a combination of cash on hand which amounted to about $3.5 billion at quarter's end and by drawing down funds from our available $5 billion credit facility.
We also expect to receive net proceeds in excess of $163 million from our insurance providers.
We then plan to repay the borrowings under the credit facility with a portion of the proceeds from a possible monetization of our Brazilian subsidiary.
Growing interest has been expressed in our Brazilian properties and we have opened a data room.
We would anticipate closing a potential sale in 2012 provided we receive pricing in terms that meet our objectives.
As we approach the end of the calendar year we feel very good about the company's strong operational record.
With the results achieved to date we are raising the midpoint of our full year production guidance by 500 000 barrels.
The new range is 245 to 248 million barrels of oil equivalent.
With the efficiencies we've driven into our programs we expect to deliver these volumes for less capital than originally projected.
We've reduced the midpoint of our full year capital expectations by approximately $150 million.
The new range excluding expenditures related to Western Gas Partners is $6.1 billion to $6.4 billion.
In summary we've reduced the significant uncertainty for our stakeholders by putting the Macondo dispute with BP behind us.
We're advancing several mega projects that are expected to come onstream in the next year or 2 and we're aggressively capturing value in what might be the largest development in our company's history with the Mozambique LNG project.
We're in the midst of our most active ever offshore exploration and appraisal campaign that includes high potential prospects in West Africa Mozambique Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico.
We're also continuing to ramp up sales volumes throughout our U.S.
onshore liquids-rich resource base and have expanded our opportunities with a significant position in Ohio's Utica Shale.
With that operator let's take questions from the participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim when you look at the success that you've had in East Africa to date can you talk to the opportunity you see in funding additional deepwater gas fields in East Africa and really around the world that can source LNG developments and subject to success your interest in becoming a bigger player in the LNG market beyond Mozambique? Brian thanks for the question.
As you know we have a 7-million-acre position in Kenya that we're very eager to get to especially in light of activities in Mozambique and Tanzania -- or make it more interesting there.
We also have new opportunities that we haven't been able to share with you yet that I think would indicate that there still are additional prospects to pursue around the world.
We are very confident about the future of Mozambique.
And I do think that that is a start of something that we will continue to pursue as a company.
Research Division</strong> And I guess should we expect that you would take a more active role in the LNG market versus bringing in partners? No I think that even the way we set up the original partnership in Mozambique was reflective of the fact that this is a very complicated value chain.
And while we want to capture the majority of the higher rent opportunities we also see value in having partners who have market opportunities available to us whether those partners are in U.S.
joint ventures or they're in the actual partnership in the field itself.
But I think in terms of our active participation in this business which we started to look at and actually participate as you may know back in 2004 and 2005 that's one that we continue to want to become a bigger player.
Research Division</strong> And lastly Jubilee can you talk of the CapEx associated with the sidetrack and downhole remediation and what changes if any this suggests for development costs and the type of development wells you might drill to develop Enyenra? Brian this is Chuck.
What we have going on in Jubilee is we drilled the 9 wells -- producing wells and 8 injectors.
They've all been drilled and completed and what we're doing with one of the wells is sidetracking it to see if we can get around with some apparent completion the mechanical-type problems at the bottom of the hole.
The sidetracks are a fraction of what a new well costs.
I don't have the exact numbers on the top of my head.
But essentially what we're doing is just drilling around the completion and we're going to change the type of screen that we have on the well and see if we get a better completion.
We've experienced additional drawdown as we've started completing these wells and producing these wells.
And that's the remediation option that we have.
We're also going to look at several other wells for different remediation opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And is there an impact that you would say in terms of development cost for Enyenra versus Jubilee? Or would you be kind of developing it differently? I think we'll just use lessons we've learned from Ghana.
It's the first of a basin -- first development in a basin and we've just learned a lot as we produced Phase 1.
As you know when we drilled all of these wells they confirmed we had exactly the types of thicknesses and confirmed this world-class reservoir and it's just a matter of sorting out the mechanical issues in the wells.
Next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In Mozambique obviously you guys are pretty pumped up about that area.
And with I guess Eni's discovery just to the east of you all I mean what does that say to the potential upside? And I mean based on what you know now can you tell if the reservoirs are interconnected? And how does that impact how you go forward with the development of this area? Scott this is Bob Daniels.
The Eni was good news.
Certainly it wasn't a surprise to us.
It was drilled about 300 meters off of our block line and about a mile from the Lagosta-1 discovery well.
Our seismic data actually extends over that location so we were fairly confident they'd find something there and it's good to prove it up and show that we have continuity down into there.
It gives us a lot more confidence on all of the resources out there and our seismic interpretations.
Every well that we've drilled out there we've had very good seismic indications of sand and gas and we've had 100% success with that model.
And that means that not only the Lagosta-Barquentine-Windjammer complex where we're actively appraising but also in the future exploration work to the north where we shot the new 3D.
We see a lot more gas potential out here.
When we talked about our 10 Tcf of recoverable resources that's just an area that we've been appraising.
And with the additional work that's going to go on through the end of this year and into 2012 we think that number has the potential to go up also and that's just on our block.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with respect to sort of Eni's discovery and how you guys work going forward if this -- as this goes to development I mean what kind of relationship is there? What could we expect? Well we've worked with Eni many times before.
We're partners with them in Algeria.
So we have a good working relationship with them.
Of course they have the 1 well.
We've got 5 and we're actively moving the project forward and we anticipate continuing to do that and keeping -- just working on progressing this project.
It's always been built or planned to be expandable and to accommodate any gas that was found in the area whether it was our equity volumes or somebody else's.
And we will continue to work with the partnerships out there and with the government to find the best solution but we are continuing to move it ahead.
And we're not interested in slowing it down because of somebody else's work.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then just one last question.
On the Niobrara it sounds like in the next few weeks you may provide some more information relative to your plans there.
What are you all looking to accomplish by potentially monetization opportunities here? Are you looking to bring in a JV partner similar to what you did with Eagleford in the Marcellus? Or given the size of your position in the Niobrara would you also be interested in just outright selling some? I mean what is sort of the big plan here? This is Al.
Let me try to bifurcate your question a little bit and say that within the Wattenberg field or the Greater Wattenberg field I think it's unlikely you'll see us joint venture that.
As we look at the area outside the Greater Wattenberg field and we understand better the opportunity associated with the Niobrara as well as certain other opportunities with other sand packages as well as shales we may find ourselves at some point to want to move forward with a joint venture there.
But I think as we've done in the past and as we've had questions in the past asked about this I mean I just keep leaning on the fact that over the last 5 years we've monetized over $25 billion in assets and when this one's right if it is right you can assure yourself that we'll move forward and try to do it there as well.
But I think as it relates to the Greater Wattenberg area it's unlikely given that's more of a development for us that you'll see us monetize that on a joint venture.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And is it -- if I'm not mistaken is it 1.25 million acres outside of Wattenberg? Or does that include Wattenberg? That includes Wattenberg.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then what is Wattenberg if you could remind me on that? It's about 350 000 acres.
The next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for me.
The commentary in the operations report regarding Teak should we now be thinking that Teak and I guess the Akasa well are now a firm third development? Can you just give us an update as to what you -- how you should consider that and what likely timing would be in terms of potential sanction? And I've got a quick follow-up please.
Doug this is Bob Daniels.
Regarding Teak and Akasa as I've told people we're really working on the West Cape Three Points Block to see whether we can prove up enough volumes to lead to a sanction point.
And it would probably be the end of next year that we would even get to that point.
We still have a lot of work to do.
We're on Teak-3 presently and expect to have results in not too distant future.
Then we have to appraise Akasa and really figure out what we have there before we can decide do we need a potential development on the West Cape Three Points Block outside of Jubilee? Research Division</strong> Well Bob is there any likelihood there are any updates on getting to the southern prospect through? You had the rig problems early this year.
The operator's in discussions with the government on that and I have not heard an update beyond that the discussions are ongoing.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is completely unrelated.
I don't know if you can answer or not.
But the Algerian situation obviously the arbitration was over in the middle of the year.
Any update would be appreciated.
Doug we're in the same position we were the last time we spoke publicly which is that we're -- the arbitration panel is considering all the submissions that were made in July in testimony and we still expect a decision by year end.
The good news is of course that there's no value in the stock for -- in our view for a potential settlement which has huge value if it's in our favor.
We still have discussions ongoing with the government which would not surprise you.
We still believe our position is strong.
We'd love to come to a commercial settlement.
We'll just have to see if the government can get there.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Can we discuss strong NGL pricing for the third quarter? What kind of drove the uptick versus 2Q? And is greater than 60% of WTI sustainable going forward? This is Scott Moore.
I would say 2 things.
First of all strength in petrochem demand particularly in ethane has improved prices relative to crude.
You also need to remember that Mont Belvieu product prices tend to track waterborne crude more than domestic crude.
So relative to WTI NGLs have been strengthening.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys announced a deal with Enterprise and Enbridge I think a pipeline coming on in 2013.
Should that give you increased exposure to Mont Belvieu longer term? That well that's going to help us move or increase in East Rockies production and the kind of production down to Gulf coast pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And jumping over to the Utica what's your net acreage position? And kind of where is that acreage located within the play whether it's oil liquids window? And what are your plans for 2012 activity at this point? Scott Bob Daniels again.
We got about 300 000 gross acres out there.
We're not done yet.
You can figure about 2/3 of that is our net position.
But as I've said we're continuing to pursue additional opportunities.
We've got a rig on location drilling presently our first horizontal.
We've taken several cores from the Utica over this past year to get our science done.
And next year we're planning on more exploration wells probably one rig through the rest of this year and moving up to 2 rigs earlier in the year to test that acreage position.
We do think it's in the liquids-rich window of the Utica.
That's what we were targeting and we've been out there pursuing acreage for probably 1.5 years putting this position together.
The next question comes from the line of Dave Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question and whoever wants to take this.
Mozambique obviously a big discovery.
Companies are very excited about it.
Wall Street's having a difficult time I think trying to value this and you start thinking about 2015 and gives you some production visibility a big project visibility.
But what -- how would you guys look at the right way to put a -- to try to peg a value to this? Can you give me any help there? David this is Al.
I'm not sure that's an easy question by any means for anyone to answer and probably one that's going to be somewhat subject to some of the commercial terms that we're going to enter into between here and FID.
I think we're pretty optimistic that we'll get the production tied to a very strong oil correlation.
Most LNG projects moving into particularly the Asian market get somewhere between 80% and 90% of a benchmark crude for the gas price.
So I think as we understand better the size of the opportunity there we hope early next year to be in a little better position than we are today to describe exactly what that looks like once we get a few more appraisal wells drilled as well as some testing done with some drillstem tests.
That will give us a much better idea than I can describe for you today some of what the potential value might be.
I'm sure you've seen the Bloomberg article or Reuters that quoted the Cove CEO saying that we've got 40 Tcf on the block related to what we and Cove and others are in.
I don't want to comment on that.
I think that's an aggressive comment that he made I believe at an African conference.
But I think between ourselves and Eni we certainly feel like there's an awful lot of gas there.
And I think probably early next year we'll have a better idea of how to give you some sense for how that works back.
But if you think about just exactly what we're looking at today we're seeing we've got in excess of 10 Tcf.
We have about a 35% working interest.
You can kind of net that back a little bit and convert that to an oil and a price per barrel and I'll let you do the arithmetic to the price per share.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that gives me some framework a better framework.
So I appreciate that.
And Al while I got you the 2012 CapEx any -- I know you haven't given -- maybe you have give an official number that I'm just unaware of but can you give us any range of the best way to think about that? Yes we've obviously got a lot of appraisal work to do in Mozambique and Ghana.
And by the way in Mozambique while we may not be able to specify the value today and wouldn't try to until we get the reserves more finalized before our FID it may only have halo effect for those that can't discount anything more than a year forward.
It's a big big deal for this company and it's going to create a ton of value over time.
So back to capital.
We do think the capital will increase.
The board will consider that in February but it will still be aimed to trying to stay within cash flow with today's strip prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the best way to think about that strip stay within cash flow numbers slight uptick.
Did I hear that right? Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more question.
In the Utica can you talk about what kind of royalty you're paying on -- or 2-part question.
You keep talking about what kind of royalty interest what kind of terms you're getting on leases you're doing today.
And then buried in the offshore report there's that CapEx number and the other in the Southern region the last couple of quarters has ticked up.
Is that Utica spend? And I know it's not all Utica spend but is that Utica spend into the royalty interest piece on lease terms.
This is Bob.
On the Utica royalty interest we really don't comment on that.
I think the best thing I can tell you is that our strategy in the U.S.
onshore has been to get into these plays early to get term on the lease and to get good royalty terms ahead of the rest of the industry.
And we've been successful in this area doing that.
So I think that we're very pleased with the position we've put together the entry cost and the royalty position.
And yes that capital number does relate into the -- some of the land acquisition to put this position together.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question relates to the recent announcement here from Cheniere to export natural gas NGLs out of -- I mean sorry liquefied natural gas to BG.
What are your overall thoughts on the U.S.
exporting natural gas? How viable is that in the future? And what do you think the impact might be on natural gas prices here in the near future? I think it's a reflection of the abundance of this cleaner burning fuel and I think that it ought to be a message to our government and our society that other countries want this cleaner burning fuel and the structural change that we think is inevitable in this country to be accelerated.
That's basically all I can say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think it's going to be economically viable though going forward here? I think it depends on the commercial terms.
To capture the oil economics you've got to be able to commit to long-term reserves and production.
And I think that even on the spot basis today you're seeing a big enough spread where people may find it interesting but I think it's got to still be underpinned by oil differentials.
And that's going to be a decision each company has to make based on where that export facility is and where their reserves and production are relative to that export facility.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally Jim if you can just kind of comment on any additional fines you guys are expecting as a part of the Macondo.
I know you said it's not material but when will we see a little bit more definition on that? This is Bobby Reeves.
I'm not sure that we have a clear timeline on what that might be.
I can tell you that we have confidence that any fines if any would be minimal.
And the reason we think that is because all of the government and private investigations have confirmed that we were not directly involved in the drilling of this well and the court's rulings as well on various motions to dismiss and otherwise have all said that we were not directly involved and could not be held at fault for the drilling of this well.
So as a result the culpability factor under the Clean Water Act we believe will restrict any fines and penalties.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on Brazil.
The data room is that a prelude to exit Brazil? Or is that a partial sale? What are your thoughts? This is Bob Gwin.
The data room is open looking at all the assets in Brazil with theoretical sale of our Brazilian subsidiary.
But certainly we expect that there would be some nonconforming bids and that we'd have to evaluate those and look for the best go-forward path based on the value we see.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But at the right price you'd exit Brazil.
We would at the right price and it's just subject to a whole lot of work that people are doing especially around the 2 appraisal wells that are currently drilling.
We want -- we're not looking for bids until early next year so that we can get the results of those appraisal wells into the data room and into people's analysis.
It's more a reflection of the value that certain areas have in the world and we've done this before in other areas.
We'd love -- we love what we have in Brazil.
We think there's good upside there and we just -- it's a monetization opportunity that may make sense.
It looks like our next question comes from the line of Robert Christian (sic) [Christensen] with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Yes could you be a little more definitional if you will on Jubilee and the number of wells that need remediation? And what was I guess suboptimal in the completion on those wells? Robert this is Chuck.
I think that's best left to the operator to give you that granularity on the exact well count and what the issue is.
I think what we said earlier is we've seen some completion issues and mechanical issues associated with those completions and with regard to the drawdown on the wells.
So the operator has been very careful not to pull them too hard.
I think the great news is again that we see a world-class discovery.
The reserves look fine.
Production although a little less than expected at full capacity the FPSO is still running at 85 000 barrels a day and at current prices that's getting bent -- Brent plus a little exceptional economics on that project.
And we're excited particularly with the number of discoveries that we're seeing around that field that we can use all the lessons learned and the infrastructure that we've created to create tremendous value for our company.
Inc.</strong> What about the capital that's required on this remediation? You didn't directly answer the first question there.
It's a sidetrack.
It's a sidetrack of an existing well and the sidetrack is a short sidetrack just to get around the completion.
It's the first one we've done so I don't have an exact capital number.
Again you can rely on the operator for that type of information.
Inc.</strong> Yes but then the capital related to the remediation of some wells.
You didn't address that Chuck.
I guess you want us to go to the operator.
Yes Robert.
That's exactly right.
Inc.</strong> What is the current depth of Montserrado as we speak? Robert this is Bob.
We don't give the current depths but we're getting close and we're going to have a lot of news flow coming up with Montserrado fairly imminent.
Itaipu in Brazil we should have results fairly soon Teak-3 in Ghana and then also Barquentine-3 over in Mozambique.
So you can see a lot of news flow over the next couple of weeks out of us.
The next question comes from the line of Phil Corbett with RBS.
Just 2 questions.
Firstly if I may just follow up the previous question on Jubilee.
Chuck are you saying that it's unlikely the field would get up to the 120 000 barrels a day plateau or peak rate out of the FPSO without remediation of the wells? And secondly how comfortable are you in the financing position of some of your junior partners in your Mozambique licenses to carry that through I guess over the next couple of years? Phil to answer your first question we have all 9 wells now producing and we're roughly 85 000 barrels a day.
And what we've seen as I mentioned earlier is some greater-than-anticipated drawdown on several of the wells.
So they've been rate restricted so as not to damage the completions.
As we've looked at this the operator and the partnership has concluded that it's in the best interest of our development is to go and see if we can remediate some of this drawdown.
There's a lot of theories on what the actual cause of it is but nonetheless it's restricting our completions.
And when shutting the wells they go back to original pressures so it's not depletion.
It's not anything to do with the reservoir performance.
It's all associated with the completion practices.
And so that can be remediated and it's a matter of finding the right recipe to get it remediated.
And that's what we're after and that's what we're attempting to do.
In addition as has always been the plan we're into Phase 1a which is additional 8 wells to add additional producers and injectors to optimize the field development and make sure that we have full support for each and every producer with both water injection and gas injection.
The plan is being executed just as it was anticipated.
The initial rates are a little below our expectations but they're still averaging almost 10 000 barrels a day per well.
So we have some extremely good wells and we're just going through the growing pains of the first development in the new basin.
Can I just quickly follow up on that? Is it fair to say that once the remediation of those completions takes place that you would expect the 120 000 barrels a day to be reached? We're hopeful of that.
We don't know what the outcome is going to be.
It's something we're just now attempting.
We have to keep that in mind.
And again we have the opportunity to add wells to keep pushing that thing up.
Our next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Most things have been asked but I was just curious with Caesar/Tonga.
What is a Steel Lazy Wave Riser system? And how does it differ from what you were going to use before? John a Steel Lazy Riser system is a -- it's a large steel riser that has an S-wave in it with the buoyancy down near the seabed.
If you look into our operation...
That's what you have in the picture right? Yes.
That's exactly what it is and so it's supporting that riser near the touchdown to eliminate the fatigue issues associated with putting hard steel on the bottom.
What we'd originally intended was a flexible riser and with the new technology at these pressures and we were unable to sustain a test so we went to this hard steel option.
And I think it's -- we're in the process of mobilizing to get her installed early next year and on production by midyear.
[Operator Instructions] Up next we have Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to Ross' question on Macondo.
I just want to make sure I understood this.
What's the potential impact to you of the multidistrict litigation that begins in February of next year? Yes this is Bobby Reeves again.
I think the best way to get all the thoughts in there is for you to go look at Footnote 2 in our 10-Q that was filed yesterday.
It really gives a complete picture of that.
The easy thing to understand is we resolved our disputes with BP and BP has agreed to indemnify us for Oil Pollution Act issues for third party damages and related claims as well as any natural resource damages.
So by far the vast majority of any potential claims against Anadarko we have settled with BP and they have agreed to indemnify us for.
And of course remember we have corporate guarantees from BP Corp.
North America and failing that BP p.l.c.
to back up those indemnities.
So I think with that I'll turn it back to you to take a look at the 10-Q and if there's any questions our team can answer it.
But I think that's a real good picture there.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll do that.
And then second one sort of on a different path.
I was curious to your plans for the 45% of Western Gas that you own.
Is this something that you expect to monetize over time? Is it a passive investment? Or is it -- do you view it as a financing source for dropping down assets? No.
This is Bob Gwin again.
We're comfortable with the ownership position where we are currently.
We would always expect to hold at least 33% of Western Gas and you've seen us take units in Western Gas in various of their equity offerings over time because we think it's a good investment.
So our equity stake has come down since IPO but then it's gone back up at times.
And I think you should expect us to continue to own somewhere in the range of 33% to 50% over time dependent upon how much equity we want to buy in certain of these future offerings.
It looks like there are no questions.
Go ahead Mr.
Hackett if you'd like for closing ranks.
Thank you and thanks to everybody for participating today.
We look forward to sharing additional detail about our horizontal Niobrara  program as well as the results of 4 of our deepwater exploration and appraisal wells in the next few weeks.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Larry and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier.
Please proceed.
Well thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2011 Conference Call.
We also look forward to hosting to you at our investor conference here in The Woodlands on March 13 where we will provide a more in-depth look at the growth and value-creation opportunities our portfolio can deliver as well as discuss our 2012 capital program and guidance.
I need to remind you that today's presentation will contain our best and most reasonable estimates and information.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements in our presentation slides our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
In addition we'll reference certain non-GAAP measures so be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release and on our website.
We encourage you to read the cautionary note to U.S.
investors contained in the presentation slides for this call.
And we've included additional information in our quarterly operations report on our website.
In just a moment I'll turn the call over to Jim Hackett our Chairman and CEO who will discuss our 2011 results.
Jim is joined by other members of our executive team who'll be available to answer questions later in the call.
With that let me turn it over to Jim.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Anadarko had a strong finish to an excellent operational year leading to record volumes strong cash flows and industry-leading exploration success.
In 2011 we delivered sales volumes at the high end while holding capital expenditures at the low end of guidance.
We continue to drive improvements in drilling efficiencies across our U.S.
onshore operating areas and this contributed to record sales volumes of 248 million barrels of oil equivalent while spending less than anticipated in -- cash capital and achieving the best safety performance in the company's history.
In addition we are well on our way toward meeting our objective of 3 billion barrels of oil equivalent of proved reserves by year-end 2014.
We replaced 159% of our produced reserves at competitive cost this past year and ended the year with approximately 2.54 billion barrels of oil equivalent of proved reserves which is a 5% increase over year-end 2010 and was accomplished almost entirely through the drill bed.
Our record sales were driven by a 10% year-over-year increase in liquids volumes which averaged more than 290 000 barrels per day.
During the fourth quarter approximately 70% of our crude oil volumes received waterborne pricing resulting in an overall oil price realization of $11 per barrel above WTI.
We also benefited from NGL volumes receiving 59% of WTI pricing through our ability to access Mont Belvieu in the premium Gulf Coast markets.
These results demonstrate that our liquids-focused capital allocations are working.
At year-end 2011 liquids comprised 43% of our total sales volumes delivering an incremental 70 000 barrels per day or a 31% increase since 2008 when we began targeting liquids-rich areas of our portfolio.
We plan to continue this capital allocation approach that will drive us toward higher liquids production in the years ahead.
Our fourth quarter results provide an excellent illustration of significant liquids-growth achieved in several of our core operating areas.
For instance in the Wattenberg field which we'll talk more about momentarily we achieved a 24% overall sales volume increase over the fourth quarter 2010 with liquids from the field increasing at twice that rate adding almost 13 000 barrels per day.
Comparing year-over-year gross exit rates in the Eagleford Shale we achieved an increase of approximately 50 000 barrels per day from our TEN rig program representing 185% growth.
We remain one of the largest producers in this highly economic area with a gross production exit rate of approximately 77 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and with liquids comprising approximately 65% of the production stream.
Collectively shales have become a material contributor to our portfolio.
In 2011 our shale plays delivered a year-over-year sales volume increase of almost 200%.
Shale volumes now account for slightly more than 10% of our total company sales volumes up from less than 1% 2 years ago.
Shales also represent about 5% of Anadarko's total proved reserves.
In addition to growth we've realized in the shale plays to date we're very excited about our horizontal Wattenberg opportunity in Colorado.
It's not easy to find a 1 billion barrel field so to have this kind of opportunity in your own backyard is especially unique.
In November we announced a potential of 500 million to 1.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent of liquids-rich net resources which is accessed by applying horizontal drilling technology to the Niobrara and Codell formations that are underlying our 350 000 net acre position in the Wattenberg field.
The Wattenberg horizontal program has all of the key components of a major resource play.
Its exceptional economics are driven by estimated ultimate recoveries of between 300 000 and 600 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
High-quality liquids-rich reservoirs very competitive development and drilling costs currently estimated around $4.5 million per well a premier land and mineral position operation of an access to existing infrastructure and extensive knowledge of the subsurface as a result of years of activity in the area.
As the largest producer in Wattenberg and in anticipation of the significant growth offered by the new Wattenberg horizontal program we took strategic steps to enhance the alignment of our upstream and midstream assets in the region by purchasing the Wattenberg plant early in 2011.
This acquisition combined with existing infrastructure and the Western Gas Partner affiliates' purchase of the Platte Valley plant provides us with substantial operating processing capacity in the Wattenberg field and Greater Denver-Julesburg basin.
In the fourth quarter Wattenberg averaged approximately 76 000 barrels of oil a day equivalent with a growing liquids composition.
We look forward to updating you on Anadarko's Wattenberg horizontal activities and plans for 2012 and beyond at our investor conference next month.
Adding to our liquids growth profile in 2012 and beyond we made significant progress in our mega projects all of which are oil focused.
In the Gulf of Mexico we are currently installing the production risers at Caesar/Tonga and we continue to expect first oil sales by mid-2012.
We also unitized and sanctioned the deepwater Lucius project in 2011.
Fabrication on the 80 000 barrels of oil per day spar is underway and all major contracts have been awarded.
We plan to bring this capital-efficient project to first production in 2014.
The 130 000 barrel per day El Merk project in Algeria is on target and we expect meaningful oil volumes by the end of next year.
The project is now about 88% complete and our contractors continue to make excellent progress.
In Ghana our partnership is advancing the TEN complex which status for Tweneboa Enyenra and Ntomme toward a planned development that is expected to be completed later this year.
During the exploration our worldwide deepwater exploration and appraisal drilling programs continue to create differentiating value as we achieved an 80% success rate for wells completed in 2011.
This success included de-risking the TEN complex offshore Ghana that I just mentioned as well as adjacent discoveries at Teak and Akasa.
We also made our first post-moratorium discovery in the Gulf of Mexico at the Cheyenne East prospect.
The well is already being tied back to Independence Hub with first production expected by the end of this quarter.
We plan to return to pre-moratorium exploration levels in the Gulf this year as we expect to participate in at least 6 deepwater wells.
The most significant highlight of our 2011 exploration program was tripling the recoverable resource estimate offshore Mozambique to a range of 15 to 30-plus Tcf.
Our 2011 activities included 4 successful wells and further confirmation of the connectivity and scope of this massive natural gas accumulation which is shaping up to be one of the most significant natural gas discoveries in the last decade.
We recently brought a second drillship to the block to conduct testing while the other vessel continues appraising and exploration activities.
In parallel we're working with our partners in the government of Mozambique to advance the development of an initial 2-train onshore liquefaction facility.
We continue to target third-party reserve certification and a final investment decision around year-end 2013 with first production anticipated in 2018.
As I mentioned earlier we replaced 159% of our reserves in 2011 and ended the year with approximately 2.54 billion barrels of oil equivalent of proved reserves.
We added 377 million barrels of oil equivalent or proved reserves from the drill bit and incurred costs of around $5.6 billion.
Proved developed reserves now comprise about 71% of our year-end total proved reserves which is even stronger than the 69% we reported for year-end 2010.
Turning to the fourth quarter financial results we included a table in yesterday's earnings release regarding certain items affecting comparability without which net income would have been $0.85 per share approximately.
The largest of these items which are typically excluded by the investment activity in published estimates is a $1.5 billion or noncash impairment primarily related to our CBM properties in the Powder River.
Impairment was triggered by low natural gas prices which reduces the post-2006 acquisition's assigned carrying value of the assets.
It has no impact on proved reserves.
Another item is a noncash charge of $250 million related to the Tronox adversary proceeding.
We are confident about our case and are preparing for trial.
We're currently engaged in the mediation process and this noncash charge reflects the current estimate for reaching resolution.
The value of our high liquids volumes generated exceptional discretionary cash flow for the year of approximately $7.2 billion equating to $29 per barrel of oil equivalent which is a 26% improvement over 2010.
We generated approximately $625 million of free cash flow during 2011 even taking into consideration $880 million of investments associated with 2 strategic midstream infrastructure acquisitions in Colorado.
In addition as you are aware we resolved the dispute with BP over the 2010 Deepwater Horizon event removing significant uncertainties for our stakeholders and returning everyone's focus to the growth and value-creation opportunities in Anadarko's portfolio.
We financed the settlement using $1.5 billion of cash on hand and $2.5 billion from our revolving credit facility.
We ended the year with approximately $2.7 billion of cash on hand which included the receipt of insurance proceeds related to the Deepwater Horizon events and $419 million of contingent proceeds from the 2008 Peregrino sale in Brazil.
We remain committed to reducing our net debt to cap level back to within our target range of 25% to 35% over the coming year and we expect to accomplish this primarily through asset sales and performance.
As I stated at the beginning of the call we had a strong finish to an excellent operational year.
Recapping the fourth quarter we delivered strong liquids growth enhanced price realizations and midstream margins low operating costs improved DD&amp;A from low-cost reserve additions capital efficiency and continued exploration and appraisal success.
The results of 2011 built greater momentum around our predictable and repeatable performance with unmatched exploration upside for our investors.
We believe we are well positioned to continue that success into the next decade.
We hope to see all of you in our March 13 investor conference where we'll discuss our forward plan in more detail.
With that operator if you would now open up for questions I'd appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If I could kick off with an exploration question and then I have a follow-up Jim on Algeria please.
Jupiter is still drilling.
My recollection is that this was similar in structure to 1 or 2 of the other wells that you've drilled out there so far.
But it seems to be going on for quite a long time and I'm just wondering if there's a particular prognosis that one of the guys can give us there.
And related the implications of the Itauna result on the Brazilian sale process.
And I have a follow-up on Algeria please.
It's Bob.
Regarding the Jupiter well yes it's taken a little bit longer than weve typically drilled out there and that's just typical operations.
We had some things we had to do on the rig at one point in time.
We're getting close to the end and we'll have information on that when we get the well down and completely evaluated.
And then of course we're going to move from there over to our Mercury appraisal well.
And so we've still got a lot of work to there in Sierra Leone.
Meanwhile we're drilling in Cote d'Ivoire on our coast drill wells so similar play type and looking for more success out there.
Regarding Itauna the Itauna well was not the bulk of the value there in -- the Itauna discovery's not the bulk of the value on our Brazilian assets.
The 2 pre-salt discoveries are where the bulk of the value is.
The Itauna well we P&amp;A-ed it.
We had some hydrocarbons in the lower zone.
The main objective for the appraisal section was wet and so we're going to roll that new data into our interpretations there on 29 and see what it tells us.
But really the bulk of the value's always been in the pre-salt.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I understand the sensitivities around Algeria Jim but I'm guessing we'd all kind of expected some news from the arbitration panel by year end.
I'm just wondering if you can give us an update if whether or not you still believe you have a good -- you're in a good position there? And if so when we're likely to hear something? And I'll leave it there.
Absolutely Doug and I understand that.
We would've loved to have had a resolution of that here for you today but it's not a court of law where we have a specific time for the decision.
It's an arbitration panel and so we still feel it's imminent.
We will update you obviously immediately once we have some results on that.
And I think it's upside for our investors if we're successful.
Our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was curious Jim if you thought this was the year that you see Gulf of Mexico volumes either stabilizing? And if it's possible that even this year -- later this year that you see Gulf beginning to reverse? Yes.
I do think that within the next 2 to 3 years for the industry as a whole end up being back to pre-moratorium levels with much longer -- with meaningfully longer lead times between actually trying to get a well ready to be drilled and getting it permitted.
But I think those will all stack up to where it will be back to previous activity levels.
In our particular case as I mentioned from an exploration perspective we're definitely going to be back to pre-moratorium levels as a company this year from a development and develocat standpoint that maybe a little slower still for us as well.
But I do think the signs are very positive and we're taking advantage of that with the drilling activity we see for this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Jim you say pre-moratorium levels.
Is that in terms of activity or in terms of net volumes? No it's in terms of drilling activity.
As you know Independence Hub is on a decline so we're overcoming that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And do you think the net volumes achieved a sort of a sort of flat line at some point this year? Well if you look out -- the industry suffered a very significant decline in production during this moratorium followed by the pre-moratorium.
And I'm not sure that the industry as a whole could catch back up to the pre-moratorium levels but just because of the significance of decline.
I think in Anadarko's case with the placing Caesar/Tonga on production we should see a very nice bump toward midyear this year and that'll make up a fair share of the loss that we've had during this moratorium period.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a final one.
Jim I think you mentioned the 25% 35% debt ratio target asset sales and execution.
So on the asset sales I suspect Brazil is the most significant part of that.
Are there -- is there anything else proposed for sale? Yes this is Bob Gwin.
We've just begun marketing our Indonesian assets.
That's something that we'll be working on here in the coming months.
In addition although it's relatively small little less than a couple of hundred million dollars we've recently signed a couple of PSAs for the -- some sale of some gas properties in South Texas.
There's always things that we're doing within the portfolio that don't rise to really what I call level of materiality but in the aggregate they add up over the course of the year that we continue to work on.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Allman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jim in terms of the Tronox litigation could you describe why you're confident about your position? I might have Bobby Reeves do that if you don't mind.
Joe good morning.
Look this is a case that has some very unusual claims and we believe it's pretty simple as to what the law provides.
And we're confident that the testimony when presented to the court will go in our favor.
We're involved in reviewing the expert testimony through depositions right now.
We still have a lot to go before trial with some motion practice and what have you.
But we're confident about our case.
But as Jim said anytime you have a complicated case like that it makes sense for the parties to look at potential resolution and that's what we're doing in mediation.
And that's what this chart relates to.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a separate topic.
I was struck by looking at your operations report at the growth in natural gas in a couple of areas in particular East Texas Haynesville and Pinedale.
So could you describe what's really driving the growth in those 2 areas? Joe in East Texas we're in a unique position in Panola Anderson County areas where our Cotton Valley and Haynesville production has some liquids associated with -- primarily in our Cotton Valley production.
We're starting to drill horizontal wells seeing very good results in our old properties like the Southeast Carthage and Central Carthage JV.
So we've just taken on a horizontal program with 5 or 6 rigs to knock out those opportunities and have good economics.
They're reasonably liquids rich and we have good contracts in the areas we got good net backs and the combination of all that adds good economics to our system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you targeting the -- what [indiscernible] there in the Cotton Valley? It's just the Cotton Valley section that we're working through.
And again Joe it's liquids-oriented.
We don't plan to add rigs per dry gas drilling.
We might be going the other direction in fact.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim that was actually a perfect segue for my questions.
As you think about going the other direction with low natural gas prices the only area that you were really drilling dry gas was the Marcellus.
You've had a couple of -- your completing in the Utica.
Can you talk about that region in general as far as activity levels for 2012 and what that means from a capital spending as well? David this is Chuck.
We really haven't finalized our 2012 activity yet.
But our company op activity's been around 7 rigs in the Marcellus so -- and Chesapeake's drilling 12 to 13 rigs in our JV area.
They -- as you've seen in the press they've mentioned they're moving down on their rig count.
We're using our rigs -- we're going back and forth to the Utica to drill wells with those rigs.
And if we have a better liquids-rich opportunity for those rigs we'll take advantage of it.
And the economics we still see in the Marcellus are good.
We're in a very high-delivery high-value area.
And we'll need an opportunity to substitute amount.
Within the event we can come across that opportunity we will.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just generally speaking as you think about 2012 production and CapEx can you give it just a red box higher or lower than 2011? I think what we can say on the CapEx piece of it is just that we are still committed to staying within cash flow.
As you look at the current strip prices Dave we should be underneath that.
And we'll give you more details around that when we get to the March investor conference.
Our next question comes from the line of David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Let me go back to Mr.
Heikkinen's question real quick.
In the last couple of years your production growth has been at single-digit 5% to 6% kind of guidance.
Is that -- can you -- to take David's term can you red box it any more than that? I mean is that generally what we should be looking for? David this is Al.
I think you can expect that's a reasonable assumption.
I think we project at 7% to 9% compound at over a 5-year period.
But in any given year we may be below that 7% to 9%.
You've seen 6% in some recent years for us.
As you think about CapEx for us next year just to come back to Jim's comment in addition to saying that we think in the current strip we're going to be cash flow positive you can expect that capital number to be below 7%.
So as we think about growth as it relates to our spend next year we've got a lot of things of which production growth would be a part of the equation.
But I don't think we're married to having to deliver 7% to 9% growth in any given year if we in fact don't see good wellhead economics.
And in the current world where we've got $3 or less gas we're not going to pursue production growth where we don't think we have good wellhead economics.
LLC Research Division</strong> No.
I appreciate that that's helpful.
And then whoever wants to take this.
Asset sales you mentioned potentially looking at other things to divest what any -- can you give us any indications there what should we be looking at? This is Bob David.
Really at this stage we can't -- we will expect to get bids in -- here on Brazil.
Now that the appraisal wells have been drilled we'll expect bids here in the coming weeks.
And if any of them are attractive obviously we expect to pursue a sale there.
And if they're not as you know we managed the portfolio fairly aggressively understand where we can make the most money and where assets fit into our multiyear growth plans for production and reserves.
And we continually evaluate that and we'll continue to do so.
I think by the investor conference we'll have some clarity around Brazil certainly and it will enable us to speak in a little more definitive terms about direction for the balance of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more.
And I don't believe it was any of you -- but somebody made -- from Anadarko made some comments about -- I think it came on the international side but made comments about the CFTC and potential margin requirement and the impact that will have on producers given that there's a decision apparently coming in the next couple of weeks.
Can you  can anybody there address that? And kind of your stance on that? What impact do you think it'll have on the industry? This is Scott Moore.
Our comments are more just hypothetical for any producer.
If you have to collateralize your derivatives position that cash flow's got to come out somewhere.
And so that's a concern of the industry.
That regulators are trying to protect consumers taking capital off producers' pockets it isn't really going to help consumers.
We've been weighing in on that politically through several different associations and we'll continue to try to do that.
We'll see where it ends up.
But we feel good about the relative cash flow CapEx dynamic for our company as we mentioned for this year.
And I presume for future years that we don't have to live outside of cash flow and therefore some of this is a bit of a -- we've done hedging tactically not long term.
And if we didn't have as much of that accessible to us it wouldn't be the worst thing in the world.
But we still think it's important for the commodities side of the business to be active for the industry and so we'll continue to fight for the right answers there.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Magner of Macquarie Capital.
Just a few follow-up questions.
In the Wattenberg field the 11 horizontal wells are online.
Can you give us a breakdown of how many of those are Codell versus Niobrara wells? And any comments on how the performance between those 2 Horizons varies? Yes.
In the original 11 wells I think 9 of them were Niobrara wells and 2 of them are Codell wells.
The performance we've seen between the 2 reservoirs are very similar they're outstanding.
That's part of the reason why your starting to see our growth in liquids anywhere up 10% year-over-year and fair share that's coming from Wattenberg.
If you look quarter-to-quarter we continue to see growth in Wattenberg.
We're now approaching 80 000 barrels a day in production from the field which roughly half of it's -- well half of it's liquids.
And the target lines that we're picking in both the Codell and Niobrara we're starting to hone in on the various parts of the field.
It has better production characteristics from each and then targeting that interval.
And then speaking about that area outside of the Wattenberg how does your sort of testing program -- how the results of that looking in southeastern Wyoming and just north of the Wattenberg in Colorado? Any recent results to speak to? Well we continue our program.
We slowed it down.
We're now running 2 rigs between the Powder River basin and the Greater DJ.
And we've had mixed results originally.
They're improving with time.
We're now focused more on the Niobrara Codell section in the Greater DJ and working a number of horizons in the Powder River Basin including the Sussex the Shannon the Mowry and other intervals.
We have the great advantage of having that large mineral position in the Greater DJ which gives us access to more data and as well as having offset information from other industry players.
So we're just soaking it all in and putting together our plans for execution in the future.
Okay.
And then going back to a couple of the recent questions.
Over time if you are able to live within cash flow you mentioned that you'd like to get to the 25% to 35% debt-to-cap range this year.
What would your priorities be for free cash flow over time? Well I mean obviously we are currently rated BBB- from a credit perspective.
If we were towards the lower end of that 25% range we'd probably I would expect to be a stronger credit quality.
And we've got lots of places to go and invest capital.
It's our strategic approach to live within cash flow because we think it's appropriate to have that discipline.
But with all the exploration success that we've had over time there's lots of growth potential in this company to the extent we had additional free cash flow I think you could expect us to push on that accelerator a little bit and drive toward marginally higher growth rates still staying true to that capital structure.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the Gulf of Mexico so Independence Hub's running around 4.25 right now gross.
Is that about where it's at right now? And with Cheyenne East where does that get gross production back up to? Well it was running 4.25 in the fourth quarter.
It's actually currently running more on a 3.75 range with 1 additional well we'd watered out during the course of the fourth quarter.
And what we see with Cheyenne East is taking us back up to that 4.25 range.
The well was drilled last year.
It's now being completed and will be put online before the end of this quarter and you should see our volumes climb back up accordingly.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are you doing other drilling on Cheyenne East? Or does gas prices sort of impact your thoughts of trying to grow that back to sort of max capacity? We don't -- at these gas prices we certainly don't see further investment in Independence Hub.
We have a lot of opportunity out there.
There's a number of prospects that we can take advantage of but it will take higher gas prices in these.
Frankly we'll want to use our rig resources and assets to expand our oil portfolio in the Gulf of Mexico including Heidelberg Shenandoah Spartacus those types of prospects.
And those are all coming this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And into the Niobrara Wattenberg area you seem to have provided an inordinate amount of emphasis operational update as well as your prepared comments.
I mean are you guys kind of leading into potentially looking at finding a JV partner some sort of monetization here? Just kind of the thoughts around the emphasis on that area.
I think the emphasis is associated with great performance feel there is just fantastic force -- we continue to grow like we talked about earlier.
And the wells that we have in that area have performed very well with EURs from 300 000 to 600 000 barrels for less than $5 million wells.
And so the economics are fantastic.
I don't see us doing a JV in Wattenberg proper for quite some time as we accelerate our production profile out there.
And it's better than 50% liquids in all areas and 70% in the areas we're focusing on.
So I think you'll see us continue to invest in that and continue  to drill our volumes as we indicated in our release several months ago.
It's got short-dated cash cycling and we've de-risked it so it's not an ideal candidate in any case even for investors.
I think the areas outside of that where you would look harder.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And is that something that I mean should be a 2012 type of event? It sounds like you scaled on the drilling outside of the Wattenberg proper but we're do you go from here? It's scaled around the proper from Wattenberg.
We just moved our rigs into the field where the economics have been fantastic.
Our next question comes from the line of David Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly following up on the Niobrara a little bit and just generally your liquids growth.
If you kind of keep that trajectory of 10% liquids growth year-over-year can you talk a little bit about what your bigger picture is for the liquids pricing environment in the States? And then obviously you have the infrastructure in Wattenberg to deliver the growth.
Can you talk a little bit about what the Eagleford and Permian look like for you guys on liquid's levered growth? We as far as the liquids pricing environment have been experiencing obviously very strong recent pricing relative to WTI.
That's been in part due to the fact that your downstream markets connect to global waterborne Brent pricing as well as extremely strong petrochemical demand.
And we think on a go-forward long-term basis that U.S.
petrochemical consumption will remain very strong and that global oil pricing will remain strong.
So we like that aspect of the market for us.
And we continue to make infrastructure improvements in South Texas et cetera.
And the objective is as Scott mentioned is to get as much to places we like to market from whether or not we control that infrastructure.
And we've done a lot of work in that area making sure that we are able to keep pace with our production growth.
And I think it's worked pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe digging in into Bone Springs a little bit can you talk to us a little bit about the well cost and well designs that generated the IPs that you released in your ops update? Sure.
The Bone Spring play courses out the Permian Basin -- Western Permian Basin.
We currently have 4 operated rigs and 4 non-operated rigs on average running in that area.
Our current production now is approaching 22 000 barrels on a gross basis of oil and about an equivalent amount of gas.
Our well designs are into the Bone Spring's the horizontal wells 5 000-foot laterals.
They've been running us between $6 million and $7 million apiece and we've been looking at EURs in and around 400 000 barrels equivalent from the wells.
Most of which of course is oil.
And it's very rich gas so we have a good NGL stream coming off of gas.
And the economics are strong and we've been frac-ing with 12 to 15 stages on average and we're just having great results.
Our execution has been good.
Our well cost have been coming down.
Our drill times have been coming down.
Our cycle times on our completions have been coming down.
And so we're just now starting to get into what I would refer to as a manufacturing mode and we're doing additional pad drilling and density drilling in various sections.
So our economics are actually improving.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just one question on Mozambique.
In the past you guys talked about finding a partner to build and market the LNG there.
What's the latest thoughts given kind of your resource potential and the size of the play at this point? This is Al.
I think you can continue to expect that's part of the algorithm for us.
The timing of it could in fact as I've indicated in the past be post FID.
On the other hand I'm not opposed to and we're not opposed to seeing something pre-FID if we something real attractive.
So I would say just so that one's on a coming attraction basis the trailer looks pretty good and I'd stick around for the movie.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on Ghana.
Can you talk to where you see the production trajectory heading first over the course of this year as some of the Phase 1 sidetracks you referenced come on and then where you see production relative to the 120 000 barrel the capacity ones when it comes on which I guess would be essentially at full by the end of this year? Yes Brian.
This is Chuck.
I think the information Tullow's put out is along our expectations.
What they intend to do is sidetrack 3 additional wells that were drilled in Phase I.
The first of which was the J7.
Production permit looks good it's strong.
We're ramping it up.
It's over 5 000 barrels a day and they're going very slow with the ramp up doing lots of reservoir testing trying to figure out what we're -- what's actually happening in the reservoir with regard to the plugging of the gravel pack screens.
I think all of the testing the date both pressure and production testing and reservoir modeling and the fact that we're seeing no pressure depletion of any significance anywhere in the field in fact we're seeing pressure build and a good share of the field is evidence that this is a mechanical problem associated with our screens.
The sidetrack should take that into account and repair that problem by just essentially opening up the screens so these small fines can flow through.
I mean we'll catch them on the FPSO.
And then later in the year we're starting Phase 1a drilling and that's 5 producers and 3 injectors.
The combination of all that work should build back volume.
And what we're going to have to do during the interim is within the field is as we drill on a drill center shut in some production around that drill center to accommodate our drilling plans.
So what we weren't seeing is a steady climb -- but 70 000 to 90 000 barrels per day in 2012 and then pushing upwards from that in 2013 once the work is completed.
And I think that's a reasonable expectation particularly given the success of our J7 sidetrack and sorting out this field problem.
I presume you got from that that the reservoir still looks really good.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then in some of the earlier questions you kind of talked around -- well Independence Hub need gas prices to be higher.
And Marcellus Shale will be great if gas prices were higher.
Can -- when you think about capital allocation can you talk to what gas price it would take given all the opportunities you have in your portfolio for you to allocate more capital to some of the dryer gas drilling in the Marcellus and the Haynesville and Independence Hub or other parts of your on-shore portfolio? Higher.
Brian this is Al.
I think as you can probably appreciate it's vary basin-specific.
It's play-specific the types of things we need to see in gas price for drilling a deepwater well in the Gulf of Mexico to produce through Independence Hub would be very different for the same economic equation in the Marcellus.
And also gas price discoveries we're continuing to see that basis is changing in the Marcellus from where it used to be relative to Henry Hub.
So I think we're monitoring those pretty darn closely.
I think today like many of our industry peers and certainly you've heard us talk in the past we are moving more towards oily and liquids-rich opportunities in order to be able to survive a sub-$3 gas world.
It's not attractive and I'd challenge very many places to be able to explain how you get positive wellhead economics at sub-$3.
So the answer is just simply higher it's going to be better but is very basin- very play-specific.
And I think in our case given the portfolio that we've got and the ability to move capital around and not be dependent upon 1 or 2 types of plays or being overly dependent upon natural gas as a hydrocarbon product you can see in our results that we've been trying where we can to move to more liquids and more oil opportunities.
And I think you should just expect that will continue to occur.
And hopefully at some point industry will start to see some balance between supply and demand and see a move back up to curve.
And Brian this is Jim.
There's a lot of flexibility there to go back to gas if we need to.
But I might remind you we started this process in '09.
We haven't really changed since then.
And prices have been far in excess of $4 a decatherm during that period.
And so our view as Al mentioned is the relative oil economics are still so attractive that you still need to have gas come up a fair degree before we'd start reallocating capital to gas.
That's unlike some of our peers perhaps because of the flexibility that's inherent in the portfolio.
But we have a lot of flexibility to go back to that when and if the -- if cash flow support it we think the economics do.
Our next question comes from the line of John Malone of Global Hunters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups on Africa.
Can you give us some idea on timing on the 2 wells you've got on Cote d'Ivoire which you're targeting there? And also it looks pretty clear that the TEN complex in Ghana is probably going to get an FPSO dedicated to it.
What's the timing on West Cape Three Points? And when do you think you'll make a decision on a standalone development there? This is Bob.
I'll start with the Cote d'Ivoire drilling and then I'll ask Chuck to take over on the sanctioning.
On the Cote d'Ivoire drilling we're drilling a Kosrou right now.
And the target there is the same as what we've been looking for in the West African margin.
It's a Jubilee look-alike sands Cretaceous-age fan systems.
We think that we've got some good prospects there in Cote d'Ivoire with Kosrou and then followed on by Paon.
So we'll see what we find in there.
Id say that timing on Kosrou is that -- it's got a couple of months to go.
I mean we're just getting underway.
We've top set both of them and now we're back on Kosrou getting ready to really start the drilling.
And I'd expect maybe end of the quarter results on it and then moving into Pond.
We also announced last week -- or signed last week 2 additional blocks in Cote d'Ivoire adjacent to our CL 105 block (sic) [CI 105] that we're going to be the operator of.
So we do think there's a lot of potential in Cote d'Ivoire and we're setting ourselves up for success with the additional acreage acquisition.
With the TEN complex we've got a lot of activity going out there.
And that's all driven towards getting enough information for the sanction.
And as Chuck mentioned that's supposed to happen this year.
And I'll let them go on to what he sees in the West Cape Three Points.
We have quite a bit of activity there from an exploratory appraisal standpoint.
Both the Akasa and Teak areas need some additional appraisal work.
But Chuck let you on with the sanctioning.
I'll just go back for a second to the TEN complex.
We're expecting fee [ph] to be completed in the third quarter as Tullow has indicated.
I think we'll make a proposal to the government of Ghana and the actual sanction be dependent upon when they approve that plan of development.
We're hopeful it will be this year.
And if you skip over the West Cape Three Points we're evaluating really 2 outcomes: one is a standalone development between Teak Akasa Mahogany East putting all that together in one large facility probably another FPSO which we are evaluating in a fleet process today.
And the other option would of course be tying each individual field back to Jubilee and staged fashion.
And the economics of those are being evaluated and all that's underway.
We hope to conclude that work again by the end of this year propose it to the government of Ghana GNPC and have a decision sometime either late this year or next year depending upon when their approval process concludes.
Okay.
And just a quick detail too.
Can you confirm you said there's 3 sidetracks to Jubilee? Is that 3 in addition to J7? Or is it J7 and another pair? It's J7 and 3 more.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 quick questions.
One's a follow-up.
I didn't hear the answer on Pinedale/Jonah why those volumes seem to up 60% year-on-year for the fourth quarter? Yes Bob this is Colglazier.
Pinedale/Jonahs a field we have a less than a 10% interest in so we're really at the mercy of when we receive information from the operator.
So it's just -- as we get the info in and this happened to be a good quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other would be on the Haynesville.
I take it that given you've got 5 rigs in East Texas Haynesville chasing liquids you've got no rigs in the Haynesville.
So you guys have a nice little laboratory of what Haynesville production looks like when you stop.
Can you talk about decline rates out there that you've experienced? Not really.
We're early in a program out there.
We've drilled very few Haynesville wells.
We didnt participate in the big rush a few years ago when -- if we look at the dry gas Haynesville we see it as being breakeven and best right now.
And we don't have a lot of information you might ask those that have large Haynesville position.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Hall of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow up on the question around liquids earlier in terms of U.S.
liquids.
I'm just curious if there's any let's say basin-specific kind of commentary you might make around any potential kind of tightness this year? Any bottlenecks you're seeing on the processing side at least on a relative basis? And if you see any potential for varying kind of differentials on a liquids basis this year and any of the pieces of the U.S.
portfolio? I think the key for us is making sure that our liquids reach Belvieu pricing.
And about 70% of our liquids are sold directly in that price and other 10% are sold in local markets would have to be better.
So congestion would only impact us for 20% out of Conway which is why we partnered with Enterprise on the Texas Express project to help debottleneck that part of the grid.
I think in general we're pretty careful to pay attention and make sure that our downstream takeaway matches our processing agreements and are comfortable with our position.
Our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on the reserves' big year for PDP adds.
Curious if there were any standout projects that made it into the PDP column? Anything specific? Yes Subash.
And we don't really share the field-by-field level detail on that.
We may give a little bit more on a country level when we do our 10-K but other than that we'll just not talk about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then final one the Indonesian asset sale any sort of number we can use as a framework for expected proceeds? No not at this stage.
It's too preliminary.
You guys have seen the results around the assets we've announced with the discovery and some of the other activity.
And as we move into data room process we'll start to get some greater clarity as to how the market sees the value of the asset.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Ross Payne of Wells Fargo.
I guess Ross isn't there operator.
Are there any more questions? No sir.
With no further questions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim Hackett for closing remarks.
Great thank you.
Appreciate everybody being on the call today.
We look forward to seeing you at our investor conference in March and hope you have a good day.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Anadarko Petroleum Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier.
Please proceed sir.
Well thank you Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Anadarko's first quarter conference call.
I'll remind you that today's presentation contains our best and most reasonable estimates and information.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
You should read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements in our presentation slides our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
In addition we'll reference certain non-GAAP measures so be sure to see the reconciliations in our earnings release and on our website.
And as we do each quarter we've included additional information in our quarterly operations report that is available on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim Hackett our Chairman and CEO who will discuss our first quarter results here in a second.
Jim is joined by other members of the executive management team who will be available to answer questions later in the call.
Jim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
We'll keep our prepared remarks brief this morning since it was only a few weeks ago when we hosted our investor conference here in the Woodlands.
During the conference we shared an in-depth look at our portfolio and it's embedded value-creation opportunities.
So this morning we'll focus on some of the major achievements during the quarter which include that we reported record daily sales volumes delivered first oil at Caesar/Tonga generated strong discretionary in free cash flow experienced continued success in our exploration program demonstrated outstanding flow rates with drillstem test in Ghana and Mozambique and finalized a mutually beneficial resolution of the Algerian tax dispute.
Focusing first upon Anadarko's operational performance we achieved record daily sales volumes of 704 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during the quarter.
With liquids volumes surpassing 300 000 barrels per day for the first time it's worth noting that approximately 75% of these record liquids volumes were comprised of oil.
Underpinning the increase in liquids volumes were both our U.S.
onshore growth plays and the start up of the Caesar/Tonga mega project in the Gulf of Mexico.
At our March investor conference we highlighted 5 major U.S.
onshore liquids-rich growth plays: Wattenberg Eagleford Permian East Texas Horizontal and Greater Natural Buttes.
During the quarter we increased liquids production in these areas by approximately 27 000 barrels of oil per day representing a 50% increase year-over-year.
This liquids growth was primarily driven by the Wattenberg and Eagleford assets each of which continues to demonstrate excellent returns on capital.
The Wattenberg field sales volumes averaged more than 80 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the quarter while delivering a 12 000-barrel per day increase in liquids volumes compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We are continuing to accelerate our horizontal drilling activity in this play as we expect to add additional rigs over the coming months.
Moving to South Texas we're currently running 10 rigs in the liquids-rich Eagleford Shale.
During the first quarter we achieved 55% year-over-year growth in our net liquid sales volumes in this play.
Keep in mind this production growth and our returns on capital are even stronger considering the $1.6 billion joint venture we executed between last year and this year with KNOC.
In Ohio we're encouraged by the early results of our 3 producing wells in Utica Shale where the most recent well has delivered more than a 13 000 barrels of light gravity oil through the first 30 days.
We're continuing an active 2012 program in Ohio as we work to further evaluate a larger area in the prospective liquids-rich window covering approximately 390 000 gross acres.
In responding to the current weak natural gas price environment we are planning rig reductions in the Marcellus Shale and Greater Natural Buttes assets and are evaluating opportunities to direct some of those rigs to areas like the Wattenberg Field that offer exceptional liquids-related returns.
As production continues to increase in these major growth plays we are simultaneously ensuring our ability to extract maximum value through expanded infrastructure and access to premium markets.
This includes our announced participation of the front range in Texas Express pipelines that will carry NGLs from the Rockies and West Texas to Mont Belvieu.
It also includes our operated Chipeta Train III cryogenic expansion in Greater Natural Buttes which will increase our net NGL sales volumes by more than 7 000 barrels per day as well as construction of the Brasada Lancaster and Bone Spring natural gas processing plants and securing numerous processing and takeaway arrangements in other geographic areas.
Turning to the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we brought Caesar/Tonga on line during the quarter and safely and rapidly ramped up production from 3 wells to more than 45 000 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The partnership plans to drill and complete a fourth well later this year there.
In sanctioning the Lucius project in the Gulf of Mexico late last year we've made good progress fabricating the whole of the spar and constructing the topsides of the facility.
Later this year we're planning to initiate development drilling in the Lucius field and are on pace for first production during the second half of 2014.
We recently spud Spartacus a Gulf of Mexico exploration prospect that is targeting sub-salt Pliocene sands similar to those encountered at Lucius.
In addition the Vito prospect is currently drilling below salt to further appraise this middle-Miocene discovery.
During the quarter we announced the successful appraisal well in the Heidelberg field coupled with the successful down-dip sidetrack announced in April has provided additional confidence in the 200 million-barrel-plus resource estimates here.
Moving to our international projects offshore Mozambique we announced successful appraisal wells at Lagosta-2 and Lagosta-3 during the quarter and a successful drillstem test at Barquentine-2 which flowed at equipment-constrained rates of 100 million cubic feet per day.
Since that time we've successfully conducted another DST at Barquentine-1 that tested a deeper Oligocene sand formation and also flowed at facility-constrained rates of approximately 100 million cubic feet per day.
These flow tests demonstrated strong connectivity and productivity within the reservoirs.
These are characteristics which should lead to fewer subsea wells and therefore significant cost savings in project development.
The successful Barquentine-4 well completed our appraisal drilling program in the Prosperidade area and we have restarted our exploration program which will include drilling in the Golfinho Atum and Orca prospects in the North before moving to the southern portion of the block for up to 2 exploration wells there.
Offshore Ghana and Ntomme-2A and Enyenra-4A appraisal wells both encountered oil which significantly enhanced the value of the TEN the Tweneboa Enyenra and Ntomme complex and expanded its areal extent.
We also conducted successful drillstem tests at multiple zones at the Owo discovery well which floated combined equipment-constrained rates exceeding 20 000 barrels of oil per day.
Partnership is continuing an active program at the Deepwater Tano Block and working to submit a plan of development for the TEN complex this year.
Further West offshore Sierra Leone as previously reported Anadarko and its partners encountered hydrocarbon pay at the Jupiter-1 prospect.
And in April the company announced that the appraisal well at Mercury-2 encountered water-bearing reservoirs.
As expected we're incorporating the data from both wells into our models as we evaluate further drilling plans in offshore Sierra Leone.
In Cte d'Ivoire we are currently drilling the pond prospect and we'll report on the results for the second quarter conference call.
Turning to the financial results for the quarter we reported earnings of $4.28 per diluted share and have provided a breakout in the earnings release of items affecting comparability the most notable of which are the $1.8 billion related to resolution of the Algerian tax dispute and a noncash charge of $275 million associated with Tronox adversary proceeding.
Excluding the items affecting comparability first quarter net income would have been about $0.92 per diluted share.
While we remain confident in the merits of our position regarding Tronox we also recognize there's value in removing uncertainty for our shareholders.
Therefore we continue attempts to resolve this issue.
And as a result we have recorded a loss contingency of $525 million associated with the adversarial proceedings.
If a settlement is not reached we are prepared to go to trial in mid-May and will vigorously defend our interest.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call we generated strong cash flow discretionary cash flow of more than $1.9 billion during the first quarter.
Free cash flow totaled more than $130 million which includes the impact of $98 million in consolidated capital expenditures by Western Gas Partners our midstream MLP.
As a result of these strong results we ended the quarter with approximately $3 billion of cash on hand.
During the quarter Moody's Investors Service returned our senior unsecured rating to investment grade to Baa3 with a stable outlook.
Also we retired $131 million of debt during the quarter and reduced our net debt-to-capital ratio to 38% compared to 41% at year end 2011.
We see a clear path to our targeted net debt-to-capital range of 25% to 35% by the end of the year with anticipated strong operating cash flows and income generation including significant value from the Algerian tax resolution.
In March we announced an agreement with Sonatrach that resolved the issues surrounding the implementation of Algeria's 2006 exceptional profits tax.
The resolution preserves our long-standing relationship with Sonatrach and also returned significant value to Anadarko.
There are 2 parts to this resolution.
The first part provides for a benefit of approximately $1.8 billion to be received over a period of 12 months and this was fully recognized in our earnings during the quarter.
In terms of cash we expect to receive about $1 billion of this amount during 2012 and the remainder in the first half of 2013.
The second aspect of the resolution is an amendment to the production sharing agreement which will provide additional sales volumes estimated to be 1.6 million barrels in 2012 alone and an additional 5 million barrels during 2013.
The impacts of the resolution have been included in the updated guidance attached to our earnings release as well as in the Algerian guidance model on our website.
Also we recently closed under the divestiture of our South Texas dry gas assets mentioned at the investor conference and we soon expect to close a sale of our Pompano asset located in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We also finalized the joint venture agreement where we assigned 23% of our working interest in our enhanced oil recovery development at the Salt Creek field in Wyoming in exchange for our JV partner funding to $400 million of future development cost.
This transition was identified during the investor conference as well.
As we were evaluating bids for our Brazil assets we received notice of a potential unitization of our Itaipu Field with already producing Petrobras-operated Whale Park pre-salt complex formerly referred to as Jubarte.
Accordingly we do not expect to announce anything related to the potential divestiture of our Brazil subsidiary in the near future.
To reflect the increased sales associated with the amended PSA in Algeria as well as strong operational performance we have increased our 2012 sales volumes guidance range by 2 million barrels to 258 million to 262 million barrels of oil equivalent with no corresponding increase to the 2012 capital investment program.
Additional updates to guidance are attached to last night's earnings release.
We believe the results of the first quarter reflect our commitment to delivering capital efficient growth and good returns on capital.
Adapting quality to Anadarko's portfolio continues to provide this flexibility to successfully manage through the current market environment and deliver differentiating value to our shareholders.
With that Jeff we're happy to take everyone's questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim whoever wants to take this but can you guys -- can you just step back and give us a snapshot at Tronox? You understand the case I realize you're in legal proceedings.
But whatever you can tell us as far as background and then I'll just leave it open and see whatever you could share with us would be helpful.
Sure.
I'd ask Bobby Reeves to do that.
Good morning David.
Look there's been a lot of misleading media and other reports out there about the Tronox case.
And I should prep this with what I'm about to say by urging you to look at our 10-K and 10-Q disclosures.
But let me see if I can give you a little color about this.
The plaintiffs in the Tronox matter is a litigation trust that resulted from the Tronox bankruptcy.
And they're alleging a fraudulent conveyance theory under the bankruptcy code.
And to break that down a little bit they're alleging the Kerr-McGee either through an internal corporate reorganization back in 2002 or the subsequent IPO of Tronox what was originally their chemical business in 2005 somehow attempted to harm creditors environmental creditors in this case.
We really believe that Kerr-McGee's corporate reorganization an internal corporate reorganization to separate the E&amp;P and chemical businesses in 2002 was conducted for totally legitimate business purposes and was not in any way done with an attempt to harm creditors.
I think everybody will also agree that Kerr-McGee made very detailed public disclosures prior to the Tronox and the IPO in 2005 as part of the securities filings and that allowed the market to really value the company.
That resulted in a spinoff of a very solvent adequately capitalized chemical company to its contingent environmental and toxic tort liabilities were well known and well-disclosed to lenders investors and the public.
Taking all that we really believe that Tronox's financial problems were not the result of any sort of fraudulent transfer but rather simply the result of the economic and housing crisis.
Yes that in turn led to the reduced demand for the company's principal product which at that time was paint pigments.
If you don't have housing being built you don't need paint pigments.
Pretty simple in our opinion.
Those events were totally unforeseeable at the time of the IPO in 2005 and the spinoff of Tronox from Kerr-McGee.
Now if for some reason the plaintiffs are successful on their theories damages could vary depending upon the theory of liability.
For example if the plaintiffs were successful in arguing that the -- somehow the internal corporate reorganization in 2002 was a fraudulent conveyance then they're damages might be measured in some way by up to the value of the oil and gas assets that were transferred.
If they were successful though in somehow claiming that the fraudulent conveyance occurred at the time of the IPO in 2005 then the damages might be measured by the value of what Kerr-McGee got as part of the IPO which was roughly $800 million.
Lots of discretion in our opinion by the judge as -- if he sees liability here which we don't believe is appropriate but if he does how he could award damages and avoid some of the punitive-like numbers you're hearing in the press.
It's worth also talking about David that the plaintiffs have repeatedly claimed that this is a case about the value of environmental liabilities and toxic tort liabilities.
If that's true then it would be something you need to look at what the plaintiffs' own experts have said are the estimates of those liability at the time of the Tronox IPO in 2005 at somewhere between $1.9 billion and $2 billion not the $15 billion or more that's being claimed in the media.
And as you would expect our experts have a completely different of those values.
A dramatically lower in our opinion much more realistic.
I think as Jim said earlier we remain optimistic about our chances of prevailing in the lawsuit.
We're going to vigorously defend it but all litigation has its risk so we'll continue to look for any reasonable settlement opportunity to remove uncertainties for our shareholders.
Trial starts in May and we look very forward to telling Kerr-McGee's side of the story to counter all of the sensational media reports.
It will be the first time that our side of the story is actually told.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bobby just following up so I mean can you put some parameters on as what you think your liability is? I'd love to David.
I think that probably be inappropriate.
I think I've given you enough color there that is more than anything.
Certainly we've taken a charge at this time of $525 million and that's our best estimate at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I had to ask.
It's my job to ask.
Let me ask one other question outside of that and then I'll jump off.
Going back to Algeria Jim the 2 million barrels this year do you guys having a feel for -- or could you give us a feel for what that impact is going to be for 2013? Similar-type number bigger-type number as far as production volumes? Production -- David this is Bob Gwin.
Production volumes around 5 million barrels is what we're anticipating the impact would be.
Jim mentioned the 2 parts here that's from the revision of the PSA.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions as well fellows if you don't mind.
Just a quick follow up on Algeria.
The guidance on the tax leaving aside the settlement volumes it looks like the tax rate is coming down.
But because we've got a full year and only a couple of quarters I'm not really sure what the run rate is.
Can you tell us what your cash tax run rate will be on Algeria going forward for settlement? Yes Doug this is Colglazier.
I think the simplest way to do it is to go to our website where we put a pretty robust disclosure on the impacts of the amendment to the production sharing agreement.
It's on the IR tab under presentations off to the right.
It's the physical location of it.
But to answer your question specifically we'll get the additional 1.6 million barrels as profit oil this year another 5 million barrels next year and then you can continue that and decline that with production going forward.
On top of that the implied TPE production tax rate if you will will decrease.
And this will happen in the third quarter because we're still working through some inventory in the second.
But in the third quarter that will drop from 30% which is what it's been previously down to about 18% on a go-forward basis.
And then sends it -- I don't want to get in to how tax is treated but the effective tax rate for Algeria therefore will decline to somewhere between 45% and 50% from the approximate 60% that it is today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That was the number I was looking for John.
Just 2 further quick ones hopefully.
Caesar/Tonga now is on stream.
Can you just remind us what the rationale was between the scale of the production and the size of the resource? Because I understand Constitution is the kind of receiving facility so to speak.
But what's the prognosis for the production platform and would you expect to be able to increase the capacity like Constitution over time? And I have one final follow-up please.
Doug this is Chuck.
We currently have 45 000 barrels a day equivalent online which was our peak expectation for the 3 wells.
We intend to drill an additional well this year.
And what we've done is we've put our production capacity on Constitution topside.
And as Constitution declines that gives us an opportunity to increase our throughput on Caesar with time.
And so we'll play the balancing game there with future wells and ultimately displace Constitution Ticonderoga volumes with the Caesar/Tonga volumes over time.
And the timing of that is uncertain right now but that's coming down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My final one and I hate to bring this one up.
But strategically Mozambique -- I mean we have seen some very substantial value recognized now and confirmed with Cove Energy.
And if you look at some -- the long-dated nature of some of the potential LNG volumes there I'm just curious as to what your thoughts are on whether or not you believe you will also get full recognition by retaining that as an operated project with a very long-dated production profile and I'll leave it at that.
Doug this is Jim.
As you might expect with the value that's being created there and you rightfully referred to in terms of the Cove process is that we have been approached by a number of companies about their interest in helping us if you will in Mozambique.
And while we don't talk about specific transactions that's always available to us.
The thing that's very exciting here is that we've got some really great exploration wells still to drill.
So that in terms of capturing value we're still away from the maximum value period.
And it's not escaped us that as you get more long-dated in terms of the reserve life that our investors as with all of our NAV would like some of that collapsed forward.
So we will clearly keep that in mind.
But for right now we're just thrilled about a validation stamp being put on this in terms of what this is worth and very excited about the 5 exploration wells we still have to drill this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On Jubilee in Ghana you'd highlighted in your ops review the 5 wells that are part of 1A and the sidetracks with the more optimal completions on the phase 1 wells.
Can you just give us an update on the timing of the ramp up that you believe when you would expect full facility capacity and then how many 1A wells plus sidetracks that that would entail? Brian this is Chuck.
When the Jubilee started -- the outlook for Jubilee started to look up.
We're now producing 70 000 barrels a day and we're excited about the EBITDA that we're seeing out there that's over $100 a barrel.
So it's really looking good again.
And what we're seeing is -- with the success of the sidetrack that we've had in a couple of asset jobs that we see our way towards the peak production that was expected previously.
We intend to start drilling our phase 1 wells shortly.
And they will have a different completion on the one that's taken into account the learnings of the original completions plus the sidetrack.
And we look forward to seeing the production ramp up through 2013.
And we'll get a lot of good value out of it with the great returns that we're having on our project.
Research Division</strong> And we should expect that to be gradual beginning in the second quarter just based on the 70 000 versus the 67 000 that was your average for Q1? It's going to ramp up a bit in time we drill a few and then complete a few drill a few and complete.
So it's going to be a bit lumpy as we move up.
And then we're going to be doing asset jobs in addition to that to try to recover some of the rates that we've lost from the original completions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then shifting to the Marcellus Shale production was up nicely quarter-on-quarter.
You previously taken up I think at your Analyst Day your EUR to 8 Bcf.
Can you just characterize your backlog there? And then if we look at the increase in production how much you would characterize to bringing on backlog versus what you might attribute to improving well performance? Brian this is Chuck again.
I'm not sure I could actually give you a percentage of both.
But we've had a number of wells both operated and non-operated that have been waiting on midstream tie-ins and completions.
And that activity is still going on today particularly our non-opposition in the Chesapeake AMI where we've had a considerable number of wells that have been waiting on just some key infrastructure tie-ins.
And that's now occurring and has really built the volumes.
Out of the Marcellus we still have a pretty good backlog in the order of 100-plus wells that could be tied in.
And we're -- the thing that we're doing there is really slowing down the rig activity both non-op and operated given the wellhead economics that we're seeing and the prices that we're realizing out there.
But the machine has been built and it's working and it's delivering some outstanding wells.
And we're just looking forward to better realizations at the wellhead.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow up question to the prior question on the Marcellus.
So if you -- as you guys take rig count down in the Marcellus should it be our expectation then that production will continue to grow given the backlog behind pipe production? Our expectation Brian is for it to continue to grow not substantially.
It's more of an offset to our hub declines as we see the midstream as well as the completions of temporarily abandoned wells come on.
So it's a growth pattern just because the wells are so strong they have such shallow declines high IPs [ph] and just long plateaus.
So the underlying asset will continue to ease up.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then in the Marcellus what is the minimum rig that you guys need or want to run at this point given the leasing commitment? It's probably in the order of 10.
We have leasehold commitments particularly in our non-operated side at Chesapeake we'll continue to operate on.
And then we'll be going steadily down to around 4 5 rigs toward the end of the year and that should cover us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Algeria maybe this just wasn't clear to me but the -- what is the sensitivity of the projected cash flows from the additional profit barrels with changing commodity prices? So would your -- my question is would your cash flows change if crude prices were higher or lower than your expectation? Brian it's Al Walker.
I think the short answer to that question is yes.
But it doesn't make that particular production unique.
They're -- the Sahara Blend is a premium to the Brent so you're getting further premium to WTI.
And so as you look at Algeria going forward I think you just need to appreciate that we have a very attractive commodity that's being produced at a premium price to Brent and that therefore it does have some volatility if we see Brent in this particular benchmark here back up or move back towards WTI.
But I don't think it's unique in the sense that Algeria is something that -- a place that produces in a way that anything else in our portfolio might not produce the same way.
As an example in China in the first quarter you saw us have realizations at the wellhead there approaching $130 a barrel.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you differently.
I was talking more just on the additional profit barrels.
So I guess say if crude prices drop would you get more a barrel? Brian let me ask you this.
Are you referring to the settlement barrels for which we are recovering $1.8 billion? Are you talking about the amendment to the production sharing agreement where we have a lower TPE going forward? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm talking about mainly the additional recoverable barrel the first part of that.
Okay.
That $1.8 billion John described that well that's a value barrel.
So when we recover $1.8 billion whatever the price environment we'll deliver barrels related to recovery of that amount.
So the barrels really don't matter as much as recovering that the dollar amount of $1.8 billion.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's what I was looking for.
Because it was my understanding that you're going to still recover it sort of in a barrel fashion but thanks for the clarification.
That's correct.
And it will come through future listings over the next 12 months.
And John has given you good guidance I think on what we anticipate that to be this year or next.
And as we -- whatever the price environment is once we get to that $1.8 billion then those liftings for the settlement barrels will go away and we're only dealing with the TPE barrels to be produced going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Another shale question.
In the East Texas -- well actually not shales maybe.
But East Texas the horizontal program what is the gas oil or liquids gas mix in the wells? Subash this is Chuck.
The -- there's 2 different plays.
One is the Cotton Valley the other is the Haynesville.
They have very similar characteristics.
The -- they make some condensate in the order of 10 to 20 barrels of 1 million.
And then the big uplift that we have is NGL volumes from both and they range from 50 to 100 barrels per million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
So I guess should we see the dry gas component the associated gas component of East Texas rise as you drill this program out? Or will that -- or will it be offset by natural declines in the dry gas component? Well I think you're talking about the residual gas after processing.
And you should see it rise slightly with time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of the Gulf of Mexico and completions you talked about Caesar/Tonga.
I guess that's to sort of key production flat.
Are there any other completions expected in the Gulf this year? We had an additional completion on our Nansen project number 14.
That came on at about 1 500 barrels a day and around 40 million cubic feet a day which is really heavy liquids once we've separate those out.
And then we have a rig program in Marco Polo that is dominated by oil rig completions.
And we're also doing work at the Caesar -- at the I'm sorry Constitution and Ticonderoga from re-completes and stimulations of those wells.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Constitution and Ticonderoga got you.
And just 2 more if I could.
The -- in Mozambique there's -- the oil area I guess -- will you participate in that license round? Or is your primary focus at this point just going to be the gas that you've identified so far? Subash this is Bob Daniels.
We're paying attention to all the licensing rounds up and down the East African coast Tanzania Kenya and Mozambique.
And if something looks interesting to us we'll weigh it against what's in our portfolio.
Regarding the oil we think that we still have good potential on the southern portion of our block.
And we'll be testing that later in the year with our Barracuda and Black Pearl prospects which will be on the either side of the Ironclad well that we drilled earlier in the exploration campaign.
So we still think we have potential for liquids down in the south and just excited to get those tested later this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you know the timing of the license round where you have your test on beforehand? I don't know the exact timing of when Mozambique is having a license round but I would anticipate we're going to be ahead of it because we haven't heard a lot about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And one final one if I could on Tronox again.
The -- so if I heard correctly I think there was a -- in characterizing liability there was a $1.5 billion to $2 billion number you might have quoted as the actual environmental liability that was cited by the plaintiffs.
And my question was if I heard that correctly how much of that has previously been paid out by Tronox? This is Bobby again.
Let me clarify what you heard was plaintiffs' expert reports on value of the environmental contingencies at the time of the Tronox IPO.
There -- that's not necessarily the damages that are claimed but I think it's a good measure for what's really being fought over here as compared to the punitive amounts that are being carried about in the media.
I don't have readily available what's been paid  in environmental liabilities.
There -- the Tronox litigation trust did receive several hundred million as part of the bankruptcy reorganization.
And that included some cash and real estate as well.
So there were some dollars that they received as part of the Tronox bankruptcy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that second settlement the settlement you've done in the second case I think with the debt holders security holders of Tronox it looks like it's absolutely a different path than this settlement.
But I was curious if there was any sort of relationship here that could be drawn from the other settlement in a different court.
No I don't believe so.
I think those are totally different claims.
Certainly in relation to the bankruptcy of Tronox as you would imagine this sort of class action that would come after such event the amounts were not material and were totally offset by insurance.
So not a big deal there.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the Gulf of Mexico you all tied in Cheyene East here recently.
So when you look at the Independence Hub I mean what should we expect in terms of like production progression here over the next couple of years? And correct me if I'm wrong but you aren't really drilling anymore gas wells at this point? This is Chuck again.
We're not currently drilling anymore gas wells around IHUB.
The project has done great.
It's made over Tcf.
It paid out very quickly and we continue to use that asset base for cash flow as you would expect.
We had a very quick tie-in opportunity that we started several years ago in Cheyenne East.
And the ball was rolling and the commitments were made so we went ahead and finished it off.
What I see happening out there that the hub is currently making around 400 million a day.
And we're going to see the natural declines of those wells.
Many of the wells are big wells 15-plus million a day wells.
And as they water out you see these large declines in a very quick time.
And the hub has a life of 2 or 3 years left on the original production and some of the wells like Cheyenne East that we just drilled probably has a 4 5 year life that you'll see just the steady natural declines take place.
And we have a lot of additional opportunities out there should gas prices recover but until then we won't be drilling any additional wells.
And all that is reflected in our guidance which Chuck just spoke to.
LLC Research Division</strong> So when you look at like a new drill out there I mean what gas price makes that economic? Obviously the hub itself is there.
And remind me of the well cost is it like $50 million to $60 million per well? Yes it's in that order of magnitude.
If you add completions it's a little bit more than that.
And so you need some really good gas prices for 30 to 40 Bcf type completions.
And today they're just not there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And one other question just in general on guidance.
Obviously you get about 1.6 million barrels from Algeria.
And then you beat the quarter by the midpoint about 2 Bs [ph].
And so it's about 3.6 Bs [ph] -- or I'm sorry 3.6 MMBOE of your potential upside to your prior guidance but you raised it by 2.
Is some of that related to kind of conservatism given what may happen on the natural gas side? Well Scott there's 2 things really.
The first thing you need to consider is the fact that we're selling properties like South Texas.
We did the EUR JV.
So that will cut into our production that we've seen.
At the same time our shales and other assets are growing so you have that benefit.
Caesar/Tonga will be online for a full quarter.
What we haven't done is really put in a lot -- put the gas volumes through to the future guidance because we continue to believe that these kind of a wellhead prices you'll see some curtailments through time.
You'll see people go back in and resurrect production if it was to have an issue.
So we've been fairly conservative with our gas guidance just with the anticipation of a poor wellhead realizations will result in lower production.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to clarify one point you mentioned there.
So the recent asset sales you had that was not already in the prior guidance? Is that correct? Scott it's Bob Gwin.
It was -- we provided that at the investor conference the total those 3.
The EUR the Pompano and the South Texas as Jim mentioned was about 3 million barrels of 2011 production.
And so those assets are either closed or in the process of closing.
So some production from those assets was included in the first quarter but it's fully baked and has been baked into the annual guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On Algeria Mozambique lot's of my primary questions are answered.
But I guess first just kind of question on true up [ph] cost really appear to be easing.
Now you're op reports updates showed significantly lower completion costs on some of your onshore U.S.
plays.
I'm surprised one in the Haynesville.
But are you seeing kind of a cost comments in kind of other oily plays in Eagleford Wattenberg? Well in the areas where you have rig growth like Wattenberg and Maverick and probably up in the Bakken you're still seeing price pressures.
And the assets where we have like the Bone Springs Avalon Haynesville and our other GNB that type of asset the -- we have some opportunity to reduce those costs.
We're taking advantage of those opportunities and we reflected those in the operating reports.
I think you'll see continued pressure downward pressure in those type of assets.
I think there'll be regional differences in the really high plays where resources both completion and other assets like trucks et cetera are very scarce right now and the demand is high so the prices are up there with them.
But we're going to continue to work our areas.
And I think we've established ourselves sort of the 800-pound gorilla in many cases in these plays and our pace is what dictates the pace of the basin and therefore we have some pricing range.
And the completion and drilling efficiencies more than make up for these cost pressures that we see even in the hot areas which is handy.
So we're beating down the cost in other areas.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
I appreciate that.
Just a brief follow up on Tronox not to kind of beat a dead horse in here.
Your statements are very helpful but the loss contingency up in the last quarter I just presumed that reflects current renegotiations of the plaintiffs.
And kind of like exploration this is some risk aversion of potential outcome based upon state-of-the-art discussions? Let me see if I can cast it.
First of all I think we've done the right thing in the accounting guidelines and said exactly how we have to do that.
It is the result of continued attempts to resolve the matter.
But the matter is not resolved.
Research Division</strong> And the trial date mid-May do you expect a 2-month-ish trial if you go down that route? I think it could be longer.
With a busy bankruptcy judge in New York we may be limited to 2 or 3 days a week.
So this could stretch on into August.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe just one last question.
Wattenberg also operationally great here.
But I mean could you discuss any material constraints to growth or any bottlenecks related to either takeaway or processing capacity here at least in 2012? Well it's a great asset a growing asset and we've -- we really pushed up the volumes.
Jim mentioned I believe it's over 80 000 barrels a day of volumes now.
There's several things that we've undertaken to make sure we eliminate any constraints that we see or that are foreseeable which include additional plant processing plant called our Lancaster plant that Jim mentioned.
We've also subscribed to some NGL takeaway capacity down to get product all the way down to Mont Belvieu which would be beneficial for us.
And aside from that we're essentially just stepping up the rigs in concert with any constraints that we see with regard to land clearances or right-of-way clearances or permitting.
And as those are overtaken we continue to ramp up rigs.
We originally anticipated ramping up to 7 rigs about year end and we're already there.
And so the process is working good the machines start to spin well and you're seeing our volumes ramp up accordingly.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly over in the Utica.
When you look at sort of the production composition or mix does that create any anxieties with respect to ability to get production online and delivered over time due to high BTU content or liquids content? Or is that all been planned for ahead of time? Dave this is Chuck again.
Actually the things we're seeing is predominantly oil related.
It's a liquid-rich environment but most of this is actually oil.
We do have liquids in our gas and our midstream team is working through solutions to handle it.
The volumes are not so great that we can't readily handle this and deliver to markets.
And there is a -- there's an opportunity to use a current infrastructure to handle the volumes that we have.
And so we're feeling very comfortable about the gas side of this and of course we can handle the oil easily and get it trucked to market.
So we don't really foresee a big problem.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's a helpful clarification.
And then with respect to your comments earlier about being a little conservative with gas guidance and the performance you guys have seen today can you talk a little bit about is that potential gas that could be curtailed? Is that more driven with production growth from associated gas or production that's tied to traditional natural gas wells? It's natural gas wells dry gas wells.
We're anticipating additional curtailments in some of the Northern Rockies production CBM and those type of areas as well as the Marcellus in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one clarification.
I mean with your guidance it shows that kind of gas production is certainly tapered.
Is there a point as you redirect activity towards more liquids-rich areas but that have decent associated gas content that we'll actually see an increase in gas production on a corporate level just to do associated gas production? This is Al.
Let me try to answer that.
Probably one of the biggest variables we face as we provide guidance is what the outside operating properties are going to do.
And I think as you think about looking at us we're pretty conservative on what we assume others will actually do.
And consequently as we move quarter-to-quarter we ourselves are sometimes surprised by what our outside operator properties will do.
And so consequently our ability to true that up as we go through the year to some extent is where that variable is coming from.
And that's not as easy as you might imagine for us to predict this for own-operated properties.
Our next question comes from the line of John Malone with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick international questions.
On Golfinho when do you expect to spud at Mozambique? What's the timing of it? And then this being I believe distinct from Prosperidade so what's your idea of resources in that part the northern part of area 1 resource potential? Yes John this is Bob Daniels.
Golfinho is actually spud.
And so we figured it will be about a 60-day well something like that.
With the last couple of wells out here though we've been really drilling them fast.
I think our drilling group has just done a phenomenal job of understanding what they have to do to get these wells down.
It is -- the objective of Golfinho is the same sand system that we see over at the Prosperidade complex up to the north and west of it.
We see a potential that it could be an extension of that.
But we also see a potential that it could be its own accumulation.
And so that's what we need to get out there and test and see if we get -- if we have hydrocarbon there and then also what the pressures are and whether there may be a relationship between the 2.
That will be followed up with Atum which is very similar testing in other sand system up in the north and west of the Prosperidade complex and then followed by Orca which will be testing a lower sand package that we've seen some hydrocarbons in the Prosperidade complex beneath the thrust sheets.
So we've got a very good exploratory program going to the north and it should be back to back Golfinho Atum Orca.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to clarify that.
You're not seeing anything on the size that they would indicate? Do you think it's possible that this could be 50 miles away but still an extension of the bigger complex that you found so far in Golfinho? That is a possibility.
I don't think it's the most likely outcome but it is a possibility.
When you look at the -- all the data that we have in there and you look at the continuity of the sand packages these are very very significant sand packages and seem to be very laterally continuous which we've proved from our DSTs out there.
So there is a possibility of that but we think that the higher likelihood is that it's an independent accumulation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Brazil can you elaborate a little bit as to what the government is doing with the unitization what is it going to take to get that sales process moving again? Yes this is Bob again.
On Brazil we got a couple of wells that we've drilled and that we're going to drill this year.
We've got another Wahoo well to drill and a couple up in the Espirito Santo basin.
And the Itaipu is the area that they're talking about unitization.
We've got a couple of wells in it.
We're looking at drilling 1/3 and potentially a DST on that.
And that is potentially in communication with their Whale Park area to the north and west of it which is on production in the pre-salt.
And so I'll let Bob Gwin talk about the implications of that.
The unitization discussions obviously are being handled by the operators so we defer to them on questions around the unitization.
From our perspective unitization could change expectations around the asset with regard to capital or cash flow production.
Obviously the timing of each of those things those have effects potentially we don't know.
But potentially material effects on the valuation of the asset.
And accordingly we need to do the analysis and let the process run its course before we're able to assess how it might affect our views on valuation or the timing of our process.
Obviously not only do we need to do such analysis but potential purchasers would need to do that as well work it into their cases as they we would expect would then rebid.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research Group.
I'd like to ask a little bit more about the Utica.
And I know it's early days on wells 30 days on your best well out there.
But how is the pressure holding up there? Is -- or it seems to me we're seeing declines start to slow in that well good thing.
Bob this is Bob Daniels.
We like what we're seeing to date but it's very very early.
We've got a couple -- 3 wells on production now the best one was the third of that group.
We think that we're going to have to evaluate longer-term to see -- to answer the question that you're asking as to how we're going to hold up.
And then we also think that at some point because of the liquids high liquids content that we have out here that we may have to put artificial lift on these and really see what they can deliver.
Because of course the first 2 had fairly low gas content relative to some of the others in the area very high oil content.
And so to really get a good sense of what they will deliver ultimately we may have to have artificial lift and just watch them for a while.
Of course we've got a rig out there.
We're continuing to drill.
We've got our fourth well that we're completing the fifth is being drilled.
And we will continue with that program typical of what we do in these shales is pilot programs around our acreage position and put them online and evaluate the results before we decide where to kick off the development program if it's called for.
So you kind of answered my question because I didn't see enough gas for gas lift.
I mean are you -- is the gas-oil ratio the right ratio for potential gas oil lift? Is it sufficient enough at this point? Well the first 2 wells had about 1 000 GOR.
It's what we're seeing to date.
And that would not be enough at this point as we move farther to the south and east you get higher gas content and more energy from the gas.
What we're really looking at is what are the economics of the oil versus liquids-rich gas versus the dry gas.
And that's what we're paying attention to is to how these wells are going to perform and then what it means in the way of returns to us.
Has there been any change after 3 wells now a fourth in your completion design? Are you doing them all the same at the moment? When would you vary up that? Yes we try to learn from everyone of them.
The first well was our shortest lateral.
We've increased the length of our laterals.
And then we've been tweaking the numbers and types of frac stages we've been putting on in each one of those seeing how they respond.
The most recent well will be our longest lateral.
The fifth well that we've drilled.
So we're just testing all the different ideas out there as we move geographically to see where the best areas are and then what the best way to get the hydrocarbons out of the rock is.
One final when you say geographically I can't really follow the dots on the map.
But how much area has been defined by the 5 dots on the map of the 394 000 acres you have? That's a very smaller -- actually the first 2 are on the same pad.
The third well was a step up down to the south and east a little bit about 3 or 4 miles.
And then the fourth well is a little bit farther to the southwest.
We haven't even stepped up to the north some significant distance.
So that will come very shortly as we get past the winter time where we're kind of restricted on where we could build locations and move equipment.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I was just curious if we could get an update on the Macondo environmental issues still outstanding.
Ross this is Bobby Reeves.
You remember that as part of our settlement with BP there are certain indemnities that are covered by our agreement there.
The only thing that's outstanding is any fines and penalties.
Certainly any natural resource damages that's BP's responsibility.
But with respect to Clean Water Act fines there's really been no activity there.
We still believe we have the right case there that we're not culpable.
And since it's a fault-based type of statutory regime any fines or penalties that could be assessed against us should not be material.
There's no trial date set on this.
This could be around for a while.
It may not be resolved for some time.
Our next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question regarding the East Texas production I know at the Analyst Day you had mentioned or actually listed in your literature that you're at about 35 000 barrels equivalent a day net.
If you could provide an update as to where you stand on that production figure now that would be great.
And a follow-up to that is realizing that the area in the East Texas horizontal was localized and you're drilling structural highs do you see a potential to -- are you still seeing any potential to nudge off the number of drill sites there? Or are you in a situation now that the development teams feel like you kind of tapped out in that regard? This is Al Walker.
Let me try to address the question on what we're doing in East Texas.
I think that's an area where a lot of our acreage today is HBP.
But as we understand the play better we're actually going out and picking up some additional leases.
So I'm afraid for this call we really don't want to give you a lot of additional data beyond what we gave you in March.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I actually had 2 questions first.
Touching on the Wattenberg I think an earlier person asked about how the logistics are going there.
I was wondering if you could talk about the other side of that which would be the results you're getting out of there.
And I know that you guys gave us a lot of detail in March but also that there's kind of new things being turned over there all the time.
So I was wondering if you could give us an update on what you're seeing kind of from the reservoir and the different horizons there.
Charles we're continuing to see just outstanding results from Wattenberg.
Our productions climbed up that's how the 80 000 barrels happened.
It's over 10 000 barrels a day up from -- when we came out with the Wattenberg discussion 6 months or so ago.
So it's increasing very quickly.
We're drilling both Niobrara and Codell wells and they're both performing extraordinarily well.
And I think the coolest thing to me is we're seeing great results across the field area the field area proper from east to west to north to south and our neighbors are having great results.
So you're -- this thing is working.
It's working in a big way and we're pushing up the volumes.
And they have good economics they have great wellhead realizations.
And we can do it at very low cost so it would -- the equation is about as good as it gets.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then shifting to the Gulf of Mexico.
The -- I think you said the Spartacus is spud.
And I saw the lease on the cartoon that's just going to the Pliocene.
So I was wondering when -- what's your expectation on how many days it's going to take to drill and when should we kind of expect to see something there in the way of results? Yes Charles Bob Daniels again.
They -- it has spud and making good progress on it.
These are not overly complicated wells.
And so I would think within 60 days we should have results on that well and can -- and talk about it.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And will Phobos be an immediate follow-up with the same rig or is that later? No it won't be.
In Phobos it would be a much more complicated well and that we have dual objectives there with the Plio-Pleistocene like Lucius and then we have a lower tertiary objective.
So it's going to be a much more complicated well and a longer time period.
It'll be later in the year before we spud that.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And it might be a 2013 result then to get to the Wilcox? Very possible.
I want to thank everyone on the call and we look forward to visiting with you at the latest at the second quarter earnings call and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Anadarko's Second Quarter Conference Call.
I'll remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures so we encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements on our presentation slides located on our website and see the reconciliation for the non-GAAP measures in our earnings release as well as on our web.
Our executive leadership is here today and they are ready to answer questions later in the call following the prepared remarks.
And with that I'll turn the call over to our President and CEO Al Walker.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
It's a pleasure to discuss with you yet another strong operating quarter.
The company produced several significant accomplishments which speaks to the power of the portfolio we've accumulated.
As a reminder we provided a comprehensive summary of Anadarko's global E&amp;P activities in our quarterly operations report which is available on our website.
There are 4 accomplishments we would like to bring to your attention this morning.
First record sales volumes of almost 750 000 barrel equivalents a day which included a 20 000-barrel per day increase in higher-margin oil sales volumes over the first quarter of this year.
Second significant free cash flow totaling $142 million.
When including the collection of the first installment of the Algerian tax resolution this amount increases to $255 million.
Three industry-leading deepwater exploration and appraisal success continues at Anadarko.
We announced our second world-class natural gas accumulation offshore Mozambique with discoveries at Golfinho and Atum.
This new complex is estimated to hold 10 to 30 Tcf of recoverable resources and is fully contained on our block.
We also have new opportunities in deepwater Cte d'Ivoire with our oil discovery.
We also in addition to that have appraisal success in the Gulf of Mexico with results at Vito led the partnership to increased estimated recoverable resources of the field.
And four our continued commitment to value acceleration.
We announced 2 joint venture carried interest agreements valued at about $1 billion in the aggregate for our Salt Creek Enhanced Oil Recovery project in Wyoming and our deepwater Lucius development in the Gulf of Mexico.
These transactions significantly enhanced project returns in a tax-efficient manner and enable us to reinvest the avoided capital into shorter-cycle high-return opportunities.
You can anticipate we'll continue to look for ways to employ this approach elsewhere in the portfolio.
These 4 accomplishments and the consistent high level of operating performance support our confidence in our portfolio and the ability of Anadarko's people to continue delivering differentiating results today and in the years to come.
As we've done for some time we will continue to manage capital allocation to ensure investments are directed to the highest return projects possible while maintaining our commitment to operate within cash flow.
Even though we are operating in very volatile commodity price environments we are committed to this approach.
Consistent with our philosophy we reduced our operated rig count in the Marcellus and are reducing rigs in the Greater Natural Buttes while redirecting this activity to the core of our Wattenberg Field.
The Wattenberg horizontal program is delivering the highest returns in our U.S.
onshore portfolio with the rates of return exceeding 100% at today's prices while also to continue to leverage the competitive advantages of our midstream assets which support the pace of our drilling activities and maximize the value of our sales volumes.
We locked up about 62 000 barrels per day of firm fractionation capacity at Mont Belvieu back in 2002 and have acquired additional fractionation capacity.
With these actions plus our existing firm transportation and ongoing facilities expansions we've created a significant advantage enabling us to move our products to sell at very competitive prices.
As included in last night's news release we also took steps to further protect our 2013 cash flows by trading out of our existing 3-way collars and into 900 million cubic feet per day of fixed rate swaps at a price of about $4 per MMBtu.
Our cash position is strong with $2.8 billion of cash on hand and this is after reducing the outstanding balance of our revolving credit facility by $800 million during the quarter.
We also want to briefly touch on the Tronox Adversary Proceeding which I know many of you have been following in the media.
We remain confident and believe when the trial resumes next week the testimony of our witnesses will continue to support the merits of our case.
As was reported we participated in various efforts to resolve the case but have not yet been able to reach anything mutually acceptable to both parties.
Though we are limited in our ability to discuss the case we'll continue to provide updated disclosure regarding the proceeding and any adjustments to the financial statements attached to last night's news release will be in our second quarter 10-Q.
As you know earlier this year we successful -- we were successful in reaching an amicable resolution to our tax dispute with Sonatrach and Algeria.
Entering the second quarter we received $113 million which is the first collection of what will be a total recruitment of about $1 billion this year plus an additional $700 million or so in the first half of 2013.
In reaching resolution on this matter we've been able to turn our attention to new opportunities both with Sonatrach and the state.
We constructed a deep high-quality portfolio with tremendous embedded value that's designed to deliver predictable repeatable results giving us the confidence to increase the midpoint of our full year 2012 sales volume guidance by 3 million barrels without this increasing any capital requirement to do so.
In the months ahead we anticipate a number of notable catalysts that we expect to do the following: increase production in the U.S.
onshore liquid-rich plays; continue a very active global deepwater exploration and appraisal program; submit a plan of development for the TEN complex offshore Ghana; and achieve first production at the El Merk project towards the end of this year.
There's a lot to be excited about and we're focused on driving value in the years and the months ahead.
With that we look forward to answering your questions this morning.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Tameron from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Quick question for you.
Can we talk a little bit about -- you talked Al about accelerating value.
Can you talk more about other potential transactions that -- I'll just leave it at that let you have any color you want to on that case talk about potential transactions.
Well David I think it's understandable that you and others are probably interested in what we may or may not do in Mozambique.
The cold process has been one we've watched closely.
And as you might imagine we've been approached by a lot of people seeking interest in what might be a farm-down opportunity there.
But I can only tell you that I think our history kind of speaks for itself.
We've been willing and I think a pretty good architect of design around how to do things in a tax-efficient way.
And I suspect Mozambique and other things in our portfolio will continue to be at the top of the list for things for us to consider.
You wouldn't be surprised that we do get a lot of inbound interest on Mozambique and a lot of people that are not in the play today would like to be in the play.
So my guess is once we find the right deal that we think makes sense for us and our shareholders we'll be inclined to pursue something if we in fact can find that.
Other things in our portfolio -- I think what we did at Lucius here recently is a great example of things we've done in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico that we may find ourselves doing again not just in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico but elsewhere.
So I'd like to think that we've got a pretty good track record around this issue and it's one that you should expect as I said in the prepared comments that we'll continue to look for ways in our portfolio to put to use.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then one more question just specific question as for the guidance going forward.
Do you care to share with us your -- what your downtime assumption is as far as volume and third quarter guidance for hurricanes et cetera for any Gulf of Mexico disruptions? I'll let Chuck hit that.
As you know we're pretty conservative around how we look at weather particularly at this time of year.
In some years we're spot on with it.
In some years we're a little light and a little heavy.
It just depends on weather activity.
But we do have that factored in.
And David I'd just say that we put the weather in the third and the fourth quarter.
That corresponds to our hurricane season as you know.
And I think the thing that you ought to see in our guidance is that we're experiencing what I'd consider explosive growth in virtually every one of our significant U.S.
onshore plays and we're also seeing the benefit in the Algerian tax fee resolution like Al mentioned earlier.
And it's just the great spot to be in.
We're seeing records at Wattenberg records in the Maverick production Eagle Ford production.
And we have -- and our Permian basin is also popping on records.
And almost every one of those is essentially doubled from about this time last year.
So we're seeing that growth.
We're seeing the growing pains associated with that growth.
And you'll see us have to do the tie-ins and the infrastructure expansions that are associated with those and we bake those into our third and fourth quarter guidance.
The reality is we're hopeful that we don't get any hurricanes and we'll realize that incremental volume or we're able to execute on infrastructures expansions even faster than we planned.
We'll see how all that goes as we move through the third and fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It doesn't sound like you want to quantify that downtime assumption in there as far as volume.
I'm trying...
We've [indiscernible] them fast.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Drew Venker.
You guys split from your usual practice of filing a Q at the same time as your report that you alluded [ph] to again this morning.
Is there any readthrough as to the potential for the settlement or an update on the settlement regarding your -- or your estimated liability? Well I think you're right.
Your observation is correct.
It is a little bit of a departure.
And I think what I might do if you don't mind I'm going to let Bobby Reeves our General Counsel answer that.
As Al stated earlier we're really confident in the merits of the case in the Tronox Adversary Proceeding but we continue to seek a resolution there.
Just like I talked about on the last quarterly conference call there's lots of reasons we believe we're -- we have the right side of the equation in the merits of the case.
There's no trial this week due to a previously scheduling order issued by the judge but we start again next week.
We believe our witnesses will continue to show the merits of our case and demonstrate that Tronox was adequately capitalized at the time of IPO and that Kerr-McGee was not in any way responsible for their subsequent financial troubles or bankruptcy.
All that being said while we remain optimistic about the case we are also continuing to seek a reasonable resolution.
And we will be filing our 10-Q timely on or before August 9.
But we do believe that it was important to try to get the best clarity in the 10-Q about the case.
So we will be updating our disclosure as of that time and also any adjustments to the financial statements that were attached to the press release last night.
Research Division</strong> All right that makes sense.
And I guess in the past you guys have talked about selling down part of your Mozambique discoveries.
I guess so is anything changed there? Would you be open to selling your entire stake? Or would you expect to retain at least some interest? I think the best way I can answer that is we always look at whatever we think maximize the shareholder value.
And I really believe that to be sort of the guiding light for how we look at either farm-downs or divestitures.
I do think if you look at the track record we've had more of a history of monetizations through farm-downs as well as promotes.
And that more likely than not would be our preference whether it's Mozambique or other places that we see ourselves wanting to continue to be a part of the operations.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk to the CapEx trajectory that you expect for the second half of this year relative to the $3.6 billion or so that was spent in the first half and what's driving any changes from that trajectory? And then it may be too early but any early look on how you're thinking about 2013 in the context of your growth plans in the various farmouts that you've executed or are contemplating? Well as you can imagine particularly given the comments I made in the prepared remarks staying within cash flow is sort of a guiding principle for us.
But with that I'll let Bob Gwin our CFO answer the question specifically.
Brian for 2012 the second half is roughly equivalent to the first half if you adjust that first half number for about $220 million of Western Gas Partners expenditures that were included in our consolidated results for the first half of the year.
As for 2013 we fully expect to spend within cash flow again.
And beyond that we're not really providing guidance in terms of how it might grow between here and next year.
We expect to announce it very early next year along with a broader corporate update like we did this past year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then resource-wise you talked in your operational update about strong well results at drilling the Geneseo formation in above the Marcellus.
Can you add a little bit more color on kind of what you saw there relative to what you would see out of a Marcellus well a.
And then b your plan for drilling additional wells and what aerial extent you think could apply there? Brian this is Chuck.
We actually have a single well that was producing.
It's -- the earlier results from that are extremely good.
We're making $6 million to $7 million a day from the well.
It looks strong.
We have a large area in what we call the Sproul [ph] Forest.
And it looks to contain most of our Geneseo prospectivity.
It's early days.
It's dry gas.
We'll put it in our portfolio and work it in.
I think the advantage it has it's a little shallower a little cheaper to develop.
But we're not pushing that right now just because of the price realization on gas in that area.
Research Division</strong> And what gas price would you get more excited within the context of your portfolio about drilling either a combination of more Marcellus or Geneseo well? I'd say between 4 and 5.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett from Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple questions on China and the status of Liwan deepwater drilling there.
And what are your -- what's your game plan for Brazil going forward? Well if I could I'm going to let Bob Daniels handle the first part of that question as it relates to the drilling of 43/11 and I'll have Bob Gwin answer the question about where we are with Brazil in terms of the activities there that we've historically discussed in terms of being a divestiture.
Bob? Yes Bob this is Bob Yes Bob this is Bob Daniels.
Regarding 43/11 we do have a rig under contract.
Originally we had it scheduled to spud about now.
And it happens to be typhoon season over there.
They decided that given the depth of the water and distance from shore and everything else that they would like to drill that later in the year.
So they farmed the rig out to another party for several wells and will come back probably about November and spud the 43/11 well.
And then this is Bob Gwin on Brazil.
BP as operator is working with Petrobras on the unitization potential for one of our blocks down there.
And so we're continuing to assess what unitization could mean for us and how it would affect value.
And so therefore we're currently in a holding pattern with regard to any divestiture.
Although it still of course would remain on our list of expected divestitures in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Only couple of things for me please.
On the volume guidance can I just explore this a little bit because it looks like Caesar/Tonga had a pretty stellar second quarter at least start up.
My understanding was you'd originally talked about 40 000 barrels a day of capacity on Constitution and that looks like that's moving higher.
So can you talk a little bit about what we can expect for the trend there on the plateau volume rate? And if you wouldn't mind glaring [ph] that into why the liquids volume guidance was -- appears to be down so much in the second half I'd appreciate some color.
Doug this is Chuck.
Caesar/Tonga is doing phenomenal.
We have 3 wells out there.
It hit its peak very quickly.
We ran right on up to capacity.
It varies a little bit day-to-day with regard to how Constitution/Ticonderoga are doing on the platform.
We do -- there's a lot of acid work and just general maintenance-type work that we do on Caesar/Tonga.
So whenever we have some incremental capacity we can shove some more Caesar/Tonga through the facility so that gives us a little variability.
But the wells are doing phenomenal.
We still expect them to stay on peak for quite some time and we're actually going to drill a fourth well here in the third late third quarter early fourth quarter and then it'll be complete and come online early next year thereabouts.
And that will give us some even incremental capacity.
And we're looking at expansion of the capacity on Constitution.
We'll see some natural expansion just as Constitution and Ticonderoga decline with time and we'll do our best to fill that in.
With regard to the guidance again the future oil guidance is dictated by our assumptions associated with weather.
And you've seen all the reports.
It's an active season.
And so we've taken into account that in our -- the forward guidance.
The other thing that plays into that we're seeing our normal standard summertime maintenance in China and Alaska.
And then we have as I mentioned earlier we have a lot of work going on in the fields at Wattenberg and Maverick.
We're tying in a lot of oil infrastructure.
And with that comes some downtime and we're baking that into account.
And there's no reflection on how the fields are doing because they're going up and they're growing tremendously as you can see in the ops reports.
So it's just a -- it's where all these things come together.
And the bottom line is our fields are doing fantastic and we're seeing the growth and we're also seeing the growing pains and that comes a little downtime with it.
But I would not be overly concerned about oil volumes.
It's just a matter of timing and we just to get it -- get through this growing pain and move on.
And you'll see outstanding results from all of those fields.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
My follow-up is really I guess this one's for Al.
So I apologize in advance Al.
The balance between tax efficient I guess monetization the way you've done in the last 6 months with the 2 deals that you did.
For some reason the market doesn't really seem to be rewarding you for that.
And I'm just curious as to how you see your priority between trying to actually get value back into the stock for something like Mozambique because I guess what we're kind of hearing on the charter is that this could be another kind of farm-down with no real material release of value.
So if you could just walk us through how you're thinking about prioritizing your -- what is clearly an embarrassment of riches but that doesn't seem to be getting through to the stock price.
Well it's a very understandable question and you're not a bad person for asking it so I'm not put off by it.
As it relates to Tronox I think that has created an unfortunate cloud.
A lot of misunderstandings about the case have unfortunately found their way into the share price.
I think when you realize that we find ourselves in a situation where we're continuing to pursue what we think is the right answer for the shareholder in court at the same time balancing that with what we think could be a reasonable settlement if one could be achieved.
There's not much more we can do to be a fiduciary for shareholder value than to pursue those sort of independently of each other but be mindful that each are -- have their own ways in which they create value for letting the operating story come out.
I think from a management perspective we're pretty proud of our operating results for a long time and 2012 was just another chapter in a pretty good book.
As you look at Mozambique I think we look at it as probably one of the biggest success stories of our company's history.
From again using the book analogy we're pretty early into the reading of the book.
And how we might extract value and a farm-down there is sort of in the category of to-be-determined.
We don't have today a deal for me to be able to describe to you for you or others who in turn determine whether or not you think we've created value in the way we've structured it.
So I think as we looked at the things that we have done in recent memory I do think they add a lot of value.
They bring forward the value in a tax efficient manner.
And over time I believe that will work its way into the share price.
It's unfortunate we've had events recently such as Tronox and previously before that Macondo that have really not allowed the industry-leading operating story to get the full light of day.
So I think from our perspective Doug we'll continue to look for ways to create that value through using structures that we think are tax efficient what we do think unlocks value and gives the market a good indicator of the value of an asset or a play that we might be in.
And we'll continue to hopefully find that resolution one way or the other so that the operating story is not clouded by things that don't have anything to do day-to-day with how we explore for and drill oil and gas wells.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could I dip into Mozambique a little bit again? When you look at the area like Golfinho and Prosperidade I mean what do you see as the next step into us seeing which area could likely get some more momentum in terms of development for an LNG project? And what role does I guess Mozambique government play into help making that final decision? Well I'm going to let -- I'm going to ask Bob Daniels to address your question.
I do think to answer it in part myself you do have a country and you do have a government here that's working really hard to try to create for their people the right situation.
The opportunities for a better way of life and enrichment through better education for the population is going to be through things like the discovery of natural gas in the deepwater off Mozambique.
So I think we have a committed government to try to do the right things to help industry create greater wealth.
As it relates to the block there's still a lot the block has we believe to offer.
And why don't I turn that part of the question to Bob.
Yes.
Scott thank you.
The question on Prosperidade versus Golfinho/Atum and which one has the most momentum both of these have tremendous momentum.
These are amazing discoveries.
We've talked about both of them being on block 10 to 30 Tcf recoverable net to our partnership.
So I mean these are just amazing natural gas complexes and both of them could be the first LNG developments we put in.
Right now Prosperidade is a little bit further ahead technically because we -- it was discovered first.
We've done more work on it.
But the Golfinho/Atum complex is catching up rapidly.
We've got the first appraisal well down at Golfinho.
We're on the second one.
We've got 2 more planned after that.
We're going to then start doing some DSTs up there.
We're doing the exact same sort of thing that we did to the south of Prosperidade which is to find the resource better so that we can get certified reserves and make the decision.
I guess the thing to recognize is that the Golfinho/Atum complex is all on our block where as Prosperidade does spill off of our block onto the adjacent Eni operator block where they have appraised it.
So we'll continue to work with Eni.
We'll continue to work with the government and see how we can move both of these complexes forward.
But beyond that when you look at Mozambique Area 1 we've got some very exciting prospects to the south.
We're-- we plan to start drilling late this year at Black Pearl and test some of the ideas that potentially could have some liquids associated with it based on the Ironclad well that we drilled several years ago down there.
So we've got a lot more to do but both of these have tremendous momentum and the LNG planning and development is moving ahead very rapidly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it's kind of hard to imagine that I guess both areas would get into shallow LNG development.
Correct me if I'm wrong there but it just seems a little bit much all at once.
And I guess from your perspective when you take a look at when do you think the next the sort of meaningful event will happen in terms of getting us a better visibility on which area has that leg up.
Is it -- ultimately it seems like it's going to come from the government.
Is that a fair statement? Not necessarily from the government.
I think that the appraisal work at Golfinho/Atum when we're done with that will give us a lot of information as to which ones have better development and then also the status of the unitization how that progresses.
And that's something we don't control.
We've got several parties involved in it.
So we're going to have -- but we do want to continue with those discussions.
So all of those are moving along in parallel and we'll see how they all play out.
But we think we've got 2 world-class accumulations here and we're aggressively pursuing both of them at this time.
We will have to make a call as to what will be the first ultimately.
Bob I might add to that if I could and that is that we -- our plan is to get both complexes to the point of having certified reserves at the same time so that we are prepared in order to move forward with either of these in the first 2 trains.
I think that's one of the mechanical things in front of us that we can control without being able to say we can in fact control the unitization negotiations and discussions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bob I think you said that the call is to be made at some point.
When do you think that call has to be made which one goes first? I think I'll answer there with when we have the certified reserves and see where we are on the unitization but we know we've got both of them capable of moving ahead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean do you expect that to be sometime by the end of this year or is that going to bleed into '13? I think with the Golfinho/Atum it might spill a little bit into '13 but not very far into it.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the free cash flow comments that you made earlier and kind of the substantial war chest you're building up with free cash flow versus your CapEx spending going forward how do we think about the potential for acquisitions and specifically maybe looking at the area of mutual interest in the Permian? And are you looking at any packages there? Well Dave let me take a quick moment to address that and I'll then let Bob Gwin do it as well.
I think today we're not really an aggressive acquirer of assets simply because the portfolio we've got is really one  we're pretty darn happy with.
And our ability to add value through the drill bit through the exploration activities with Bob Daniels is probably our best value added for the dollar invested.
It might be more likely that we might want to see ourselves taking greater working interest in some wells or drilling a few more wells and spending capital that way than we would necessarily through acquisitions.
It doesn't mean that acquisitions at some point might not be of interest to us particularly at the right price.
But that might be a better question for Bob Gwin to address than me.
But I think today the exploration model that we have is probably for us the best value added for the composition of the portfolio we've got.
And the only thing I'd add to it is that of course there's lots of properties out there and we look at lots of them.
We look at numerous opportunities around the world both in terms of in our exploration area as well as in places to see if an acquisition could dislodge something in our existing portfolio and help our future results.
But as Al pointed out we are very pleased with the portfolio.
We're very pleased with the forward model.
And so as you would expect it becomes pretty difficult to find ourselves in a competitive bidding situation where the economics makes sense for us to pursue it.
But we keep looking at it obviously because the free cash flow gives us some flexibility gives us some optionality.
Bob Daniels' success and his team's success with the drillbit gives us a lot of optionality.
And so we are constantly trying to figure out how we use that optionality available to us to drive better results in a more capital-efficient basis.
Yes Dave last time we probably made any sort of acquisition of size was in the Eagleford with the TXCO situation where they were in bankruptcy and they were a distressed seller.
So it's probably in a scenario of more like that that you may see us be a little more aggressive than we would be otherwise.
I think in that particular case we bought TXCO for around $1 000 an acre.
And depending upon how you value the promote associated with KNOC we did it somewhere between $15 000 and $19 000 an acre.
So if we see those sort of economics work again in our favor Dave I think you might consider letting us load the gun.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that color.
And then switching over to the Marcellus just for a moment.
You had the rig count down.
Your production was up.
You kind of telegraphed that that might be something that would happen last quarter.
Can you talk a little bit more about how we think about that going forward and whether that was driven more by a series of drilled uncompleted wells being completed or by the efficiency gains you kind of outlined in your ops report last night? This is Chuck.
It's a bit of both.
Particularly on the non-op production side we've seen a lot of growth over there and it feels now making 1.2 Bcf a day which is just a phenomenal start.
And you'll recall that up until just recently we've had a carried position in the Marcellus.
So we built that at a very low cost to Anadarko and have a tremendous asset there that has a lot of life lift into it.
We've also got a lot of efficiency.
You've seen our drill times come down our completion costs come down.
We outlined that in the ops report if you want to go through that.
And you can just refer to the ops report.
I think it does a pretty good job of telling you how we're working that.
So going forward we'll continue to keep a fairly low rig activity level on the operated side.
And I think our non-operated position will do the same thing.
There are several hundred wells that are waiting on either completions or hookups.
So you could continue to see a pretty strong production performance out of that area.
And the economics despite the gas price are fairly strong given the low cost position and the efficiencies we've got out of drilling in completion group.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that color.
One just last follow-up to that looking at those efficiency gains and the reduction in cost on the completion side how do we think about what inning you guys are in from the perspective of that continuing? Obviously kind of 15% reduction quarter-over-quarter is pretty impressive number on the spud-to-rig release time.
Do we keep kind of pushing that trajectory for several more quarters? Just any kind of guidance you can give us on that would be helpful.
I don't think I'd want to pop out a percentage but I will tell you that our drilling completion guys just they're top rate.
They wake up every morning trying to push additional efficiencies into our program and deliver value to Anadarko.
And I've been amazed at the just year-over-year I guess for the last 5 or 6 years we've seen continuous improvement.
And I'd bet on those guys every day.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on the Marcellus.
What's your current backlog? And then what's the plans for actually taking down that backlog over the next few quarters? Brian this is Chuck.
The backlog is around 200 wells and it's just getting clipped off on a steady pace.
We've -- both us and our non-operated partners have reduced the completion count or the completion crew count.
And what we're seeing is just a general slowing of the process up there that's helping us manage our cost get more efficiency out of the dollars we spend up there.
And depending upon gas price and how those crews are operating you could see 20 or 30 of those wells a quarter being put online.
And even more if prices were to rebound I think you'd see us accelerate that and you can see the growth come again.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I'm just thinking if you look at where the current spot gas price is relative to the forward curve for next year there's not a huge amount at Contango [ph] at this point.
And so I'm just wondering if you guys would start stepping into a higher completion of that backlog.
Well that's an option for us.
Right now we're down to a crude count that we're comfortable with and I think our non-operated -- our operator advisors are feeling the same way.
So you're just seeing -- you're sort of seeing a steady-state pace right now.
I don't really see that changing unless gas prices improve considerably.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting over to Jubilee on the down production quarter-over-quarter how much of that was related to rig remediation versus just under lifting? Well the production -- what you're seeing on a quarter-to-quarter numbers is just how the ships come in and out and the way the liftings work.
The production from Jubilee is actually starting to pick up.
We were down to around 60 000 barrels a day and now we're producing over 75 000 barrels a day.
And so you are starting to see the impact of the acid jobs and the sidetracks that we did earlier this year.
We're feeling fairly encouraged about how the field is performing and the -- when you're out in a field like that and you're in a subsea environment to work in a well you often times have to shut in all the wells around you.
So that's why you didn't see the build quite as fast as maybe you would've hoped but the acid jobs are working well.
And I feel like that you'll continue to see that performance.
And we've also started our Phase 1A wells and those -- the early returns on those look really good as well.
And if we apply the lessons we've learned on the completions in Phase 1 into the Phase 1A group which I'm sure we will I think you'll see some really good performance out of the field coming forward.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so the -- if it was just the timing I guess on the second quarter do you expect to have sort of an overlift in the third quarter at Jubilee? It goes up and down I'm sorry I don't have the exact figures on the third quarter.
But the production is steady and it's -- the way the liftings work there's a sequence of liftings and it's just timing.
Your next question comes from the line of John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the op side can you talk about the horizontal one being about 75% Niobrara production you got 25% Codell.
Is that the plan going forward or do you think you'll do more Codell completions more Codell production? Right now the fields are doing so well.
Both the Niobrara and the Codell are performing extremely well.
You've seen us increase our resource potential out there to 1 billion to 1.5 billion barrels.
The mix is associated more with the way the existing vertical completions are put together.
And so that's probably a reasonable mix going forward but it will change from time to time depending upon which section we're in.
But I would say that's in the game of what the mix is going to be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just moving over to the Utica you mentioned it's 4 wells flowing and you referred to a completion evaluation in early 2013.
Is that when we can most likely [ph] expect an update? Or would you be saying something about what you're seeing there prior to that? We'll be updating it as we get deeper into 2013.
Essentially we're in our -- we're still in our early phases of exploration.
The -- we have 3 wells on steady production.
We're completing 3 wells and we're drilling 1 right now.
So we'll have a total of 7.
There's a lot of activity around this.
So we'll give a lot of information with regard to our land position and have a more fulsome discussion in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on Phobos.
I was just curious as to what color you could provide or what response you would provide to investors who may feel that per the operations report release you could be giving up a good bit of potential upside in the prospect in exchange for what on the surface looks to be maybe $80 million or so.
Could you provide any color on going forward with Phobos and you guys' thoughts on the form out there? Eliot Bob Daniels.
We manage our risk.
And even though it's a very good prospect with its dual objectives and proximity to Lucius and everything it's a good prospect it still is not without risk.
And it's also going to be a fairly expensive well because of lower tertiary tail that we have on it to test down there.
So we feel like the right thing to do at this point was to share that risk a little bit and so we laid off a piece of it.
We're essentially going to be fully carried on the well and that'll spud later this year.
It's very typical of how we do our business both in the Gulf of Mexico and around the world.
So it's just managing our risk and recognizing that while it's a very attractive prospect we've got lots of very attractive prospects in our portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
And just a quick follow-up to that then would be just so I get some clarification the 20% does that apply to the whole potential development that was farmed out? Or is it the block or the well? Just it is the old development 20% was farmed out? That's right.
That will be the whole prospect.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner from Macquarie.
Yes most of my questions were answered.
I guess one thing.
Could you give us an update on the timing or any anticipated activity on the new ventures front in the deepwater? New Zealand Kenya and South Africa come to mind.
Yes Joe it's Bob.
On Kenya we'll probably get to drilling over there first quarter of 2013.
Originally thought this year.
But because of the Golfinho/Atum activity we pretty much used up our rig time all in Mozambique so it will happen early 2013.
South Africa we're in the process of just waiting on the final paper signed by the government.
Meanwhile we're working with Petroci our partner on the 2D seismic acquisition program that could start later this year.
New Zealand -- do you want me to just kind of walk around the world? Sure if that's all right.
New Zealand we just signed a rig which will -- new build coming out of the Asian shipyards late 2013 to spud the wells over there.
So we do have that tied up at this point.
I mentioned China later this year.
Beyond that normal activity.
West Africa moving down into southern portion of the Mozambique block and continue to look for new opportunities.
Okay.
Great.
And then just one other thing you mentioned -- Al mentioned it in his comments that the plan of development will be submitted on the TEN complex.
Any comments on or thoughts on the size or sort of resource potential or production impact from that development at this point? George just following along with the operator's estimates we have 18% of that block.
And we're deeply involved in the development process of getting the POD put together.
And we're in alignment with how they've assessed the resources that we developed in this source space.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the Wattenberg my -- if my recollection is right you're on track to spend about $1 billion there this year.
So that's a big chunk of your CapEx.
But the -- I wanted to get more kind of color on what you've seen on the Codell rates and also maybe a little more color on that Barclay section where you had the 10 wells on the 640 [ph].
Okay Charles this is Chuck again.
The way the Wattenberg's gone we have 8 rigs now.
The field is growing very very quickly.
We've pushed rates from the horizontal program up to 28 000 barrels a day.
And that's coming from about 75% of the wells in Niobrara and 25% is Codell.
We've -- the 2 have very similar characteristics with regard to production profile on a BOE basis.
One is a little more liquids-rich that's why we're drilling more Niobrara wells than Codell wells.
But as we go into these areas and we want to develop say a section we're doing our best to complete the development in the section just sort of mow the grass as where we're going.
Just walk across the section and complete it so we don't have to come back in and disrupt production from either -- for me the other wells.
And so that's our process and that's why we're doing it the way we're doing it.
The Barclay section that you referred to is an area where we've gone in and almost completely developed the section on a test spacing in both zones.
And it's -- we've put those wells online.
It'll take us a number of months.
We're just too early in the process to know how well they've done and what the total estimated ultimate recovery are between the 2 zones.
But that's one of our experiments.
And the early returns on that as you saw in the operating report look very good.
And I think this is the way we're going to approach the field going forward which is just rig up on a section with the number of rigs that we need to prosecute the program drill both the Niobrara and the Codell at the same time move in with a completion fleet and complete those 10 -- however many wells 8 to 10 to 12 wells per section and then move out and go on to the next one.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And are those -- is the pattern for this Codell with the Niobrara is it kind of a sawtooth pattern or are you doing kind of 7 Niobrara on one end and then 3 Codell on the other? It's more of a sawtooth where you have a Codell under 2 or 3 Niobrara wells.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then back to Mozambique I'd like to take one more run at that question.
So obviously the Prosperidade complex is further ahead technically but you've -- you're accelerating the appraisal on the Golfinho/Atum.
To me the one big thing and this is what everyone's alluded to the one-piece complex that you have on the Prosperidade is the unitization discussion negotiations is I think what you guys said.
What -- is there a time line for that when it's going to start? And do you have an expectation or how long that's going to take? Because I guess at least in my way of thinking that's kind of -- it's really that -- how difficult and how long that discussion that unitization discussion is is going to be a large determinant of what everyone's after which is which prospect -- or which complex is going to get discovered of developed first.
Charles this is Al.
Let me be sure I understand your question.
Are you asking have we started discussions around unitization? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean just start of those discussions and how long do you think they're going to last or how long will it be before you get a decision on it? Well we have started discussions.
We've had numerous discussions.
It's hard for us to give you an estimate of when we might reach agreement on unitization because that would be associated with reaching the milestone I mentioned earlier with having the reserves certified.
I think both the government and the partners are going to need to be able to demonstrate they've got certified reserves behind any particular train.
So we answered that question earlier saying  it would probably late this year early next before both of the 2 complexes the Golfinho/Atum complex or the Prosperidade field itself would actually have certified reserves.
It's probably on the backside of having certified reserves from our perspective in both Golfinho/Atum and Prosperidade and seeing what is in the other block that Eni's the operator for on the certified reserves before you should likely expect there to be some conclusion reached by the government on how that field would be unitized.
And your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin in from Societe Generale.
Some quick ones for me.
With Heidelberg and Vito would you consider doing a Lucius-like development carry? John this is Bob Gwin.
I think the short answer to that is yes.
But obviously as we move forward and the economics take more shape and we look at how it fits into the broader portfolio we'll make that decision in the future.
But the deal we did at Lucius is very very attractive.
Obviously it enhances our economics very very significantly.
And so replicating that type of a structure certainly is on the short list of things we'd consider.
John the one thing I would add to that is that at Heidelberg we have working -- a little more working interest there to be able to promote down and still have a meaningful working interest.
So unless we were able to do a player trade at Vito I think our focus would probably be at Heidelberg.
Okay that's fine now.
Are you finding that you're getting unsolicited offers from domestic players or global or both? John it's both.
These -- coming across resources like this of this kind of scale is a relatively difficult thing to do.
And our team has done it well and there are several folks out there that are attracted to relatively shorter term oil coming online and willing to pay a marginal premium in order to buy it from us given the -- given our willingness to work out an attractive economic deal.
And John let me add to that.
I think it's probably fair to say that nondomestic companies today have a very bullish view of oil.
And it's probably because of that that they're a better promotee here than maybe a domestic company.
Because it seems like as we talk to people there's a very strong view about future prices that they don't want to be on the other side of it.
And so it seems like that's why a lot of our activities of them with more non-U.S.
companies when we promote.
Great.
With Mozambique your test results were very strong.
Would you be considering changing kind of your design capacity in terms of LNG? Or is it still way too early days? John this is Chuck.
Yes those results were exceptional.
In fact you saw where we flowed 100 million a day from several of our DSTs and very low drawdowns.
So the well design itself will certainly make for larger bore completions so we get more rate out of every well.
And we're approaching our feed for both Golfinho and Prosperidade complexes with looking at what the optimum economics that we could generate based upon the combination of wellbores and output from the LNG train.
So all that's in the mix right now and we're evaluating that.
Our early work has said that a 5 million ton-type plant is about where we ought to be but we're still open to evaluations on others.
Okay.
Last one for me is on Wattenberg.
You're getting better results what about processing capacity? Are you going to have to ramp that up? Or you're just trying to be more oily shall we say so you're not having to deal with any sort of capacity issues until you do upgrade in Wattenberg? Yes John I'm sure you got it but we're doing a lot of expansion out there.
We are actually installing a 300-million-a-day processing plant called the Lancaster plant.
And then we're actually participating in 2 significant pipeline projects down in Mont Belvieu.
The Front Range Express and the Texas Express which will allow us the evacuation of those NGLs from Wattenberg which you know it's very rich gas as we get a lot of good heavy NGLs and we'll be pushing those down to Mont Belvieu into some premium markets.
And so all that's underway right now.
The plan and the pipelines will be in service late next year early 2014.
And we're really excited about the economics at land in our Wattenberg program.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the Marcellus.
What is the non-op rig count currently? Subash did you ask us what was the non-op rig count in the Marcellus? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
It's around 7 7 or 8 right now.
It varies just day-to-day but it's right in that range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So down from 11? It was probably at a peak of 13 or 14 at one time Subash.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second and probably the -- a ton of these questions being asked but if you can maybe characterize a bit more for the guidance whether versus growing pains is there a way to do that without providing numbers? Not in real good detail.
I don't guess the -- I think you guys' concern about the guidance is overblown frankly.
We're having exceptional performance from all our reservoirs.
And it's just the -- it's a combination of effects that we're taking into account what we are seeing and having predictions on a heavy hurricane season.
And we take that into account so we give you a risk-weighted guidance.
And I'm sorry we've said this 3 or 4 times but that's what we do.
And the other things are just the types of things that happen when you're growing and that's shut-ins to make tie-ins.
The expansion projects that we have for oil exports at Wattenberg and the Maverick and the growth we're seeing in the Permian all that has consequential impacts on a quarterly basis.
But the reality is those things are growing and they're growing explosively.
I mean it's big time growth with exceptional economics in all those plays.
And so that's what's going on and we're getting the benefit of the Algerian TP resolution to boot.
So you'll see our oil volumes spike up considerably as we move forward.
It's unfortunate I guess based upon the timing that all this kind of collides in the third quarter which is when we have a lot of weather downtime historically and we're just taking that into account.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And a final question I guess.
In Mozambique and your LNG project how do you look at your ability to operate LNG business and possibly build that out as a long-term portfolio in terms of say human resource and capital requirements and time value? Well I think you need to break it down in a couple of components.
Let's just talk offshore first.
What you're going to see offshore Mozambique is a cluster of wells probably 10 to 15 wells per train to start out with.
It's very similar to the development that we had in IHUB.
IHUB was about 1 Bcf a day production.
It'll take around 750 million to 800 million per train to produce into these facilities.
So we've done that.
I think we've done it well and we're very familiar with the kit and the water depth and we have the right equipment to take that to conclusion.
I also think that our project management team that we put together on this project and has historically been working on our Gulf projects is just top-notch and they've delivered projects of this offshore similar to this on time and on budget for a decade now.
And you all seen all the IPA comparisons of that.
So I feel really strongly that we've got this offshore linked.
When you move onshore and you think about this LNG project to put in perspective my sense is that a train is about the equivalent of doing an El Merk and 1/2 something along those.
That's the kind of intensity the capital the manpower the hardware that's involved in that.
And so we're in the middle of El Merk now we're 93% complete.
And we're coming in -- we'll have first production year-in.
So I think we have the basic skill set that we need to complete this project put it together.
We're fortunate in that -- with the folks on El Merk the folks that have worked on Ghana the folks that worked on Caesar/Tonga within our company are available to us to put on Mozambique right now.
And so we're moving that down in that direction.
They're very experienced.
They've done an exceptional job with those projects.
And I feel comfortable that we'll pick good feed.
We got a good feed contractor list.
And as we go further and further and deeper and deeper into this project we'll continue to hone that list.
And the combination of world-class contractors and our project management team along with the partner participation that we'll have we'll deliver you a great project.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry one last one.
In Algeria the staggering the barrels out for the balance of the year how do you see that happening? Yes on that one really Subash you're just going to have to follow our guidance because we contract every 2 months for our forward sales out there.
So it just falls in based upon the tranching in of the different owners.
Your last question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a had quick one regarding the Wattenberg as you shift towards 10 horizontal wells I just wondered if you could elaborate on what the mix will be or what that means for the vertical program.
Well what we're essentially doing is taking new horizontal rigs putting them to work in Wattenberg and diminishing our vertical program by about the equivalent amount.
So by the end of the year we may have one vertical rig working but it's going to be late this year or early next year that the vertical program will essentially go away and then we'll be drilling strictly 100% horizontal wells with maybe a few exceptions here and there.
Research Division</strong> And then as we think about 2013 you at the analyst meeting you talked about perhaps drilling up to 270 wells on the horizontal program next year.
Does that -- does your thought process change given how you're accelerating up to 10 a little bit faster than we were anticipating? Well yes.
The actual rig count I can't comment on yet because -- I'm sorry the actual well count we're still working through that.
But I think the combination of moving to 10 rigs and the efficiency we're seeing in the program of getting these things knocked out quicker will lead to a higher actual well count drill next year.
Well I believe with that we have answered all the questions.
We appreciate everyone's time and attention this morning and we look forward to being with you again in late October.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2012 Anadarko Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to John Colglazier Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today for Anadarko's third quarter conference call.
I'll remind you that today's presentation contains certain forward-looking statements and non-GAAP financial measures so we encourage you to read our full disclosure and GAAP reconciliations outlined on our website and included in last night's earnings release.
Also on our website we provided a comprehensive summary of our global activities in our Quarterly Operations Report.
Our executive leadership is here today and ready to answer your questions later in the call.
And with that let me turn the call over to Al Walker our President and CEO.
Thanks John and good morning.
We're mindful this is a difficult morning for many of you in the Northeastern U.S.
given the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
The safety and well-being of you and your families is certainly in our thoughts today and we thank you for taking the time this morning to join us.
Apart from the unfortunate weather-related events it's a pleasure to discuss our quarterly results this morning.
And during the third quarter we continued to meet or surpass our near-term goals while delivering strong operating and financial results reflecting the benefit of our ongoing efforts to improve efficiency reduce controllable costs on a per unit basis and where we can deliver exceptional portfolio set [ph] with our capital allocations.
Highlights of the quarter include record liquids volume [indiscernible] flow generation.
In the third quarter we achieved sales volumes growth of about 80 000 barrels equivalent per day representing a 12% increase over the comparable quarter of 2011.
Included in this growth was an increase of 41 000 barrels per day of higher-margin liquids sales resulting in a record 322 000 barrels of daily liquids volumes during the quarter.
We continued to generate free cash flow during the quarter and when you include the $501 million collected from the Algeria tax resolution our adjusted free cash flow totaled $516 million.
As a result of the strong cash generated year-to-date we significantly strengthened the balance sheet by reducing borrowings under our revolving credit facility by $1.5 billion and retaining $2.5 billion of cash on hand and improving our net debt-to-cap ratio to 36%.
As I mentioned earlier we want to highlight the value-enhancing results at 2 of our largest projects.
First in the Wattenberg horizontal program we increased our estimated recoverable resources in 4 of the fields to a range of 1 billion to 1.5 billion BOE.
This increase resulted from the exceptional performance from both the Niobrara and the Codell formations coupled with identified down-spacing opportunities.
Our focus on maximizing the performance and the value of the asset has led to a very positive early result for the drilling off of longer laterals in the field.
During the quarter the Wattenberg horizontal program continued to deliver record sales volumes and rates of return in excess of 100%.
As a result we increased sales volumes in the field by 23% year-over-year averaging 91 300 BOE per day despite incurring unexpected shut-ins due to third-party export construction.
Our large and growing infrastructure here in the midstream positions us to be in a very competitive opportunity in the future in this field because we do things that others can't.
We have undertaken additional investments to support our future growth in the field through acquiring [ph] positions in the Front Range and Texas Express pipeline and the construction of the Lancaster plant.
The second area of material success was in Mozambique.
Here we had significant increases in our estimated recoverable resources due to the positive results at Golfinho and Atum.
We recently completed a 4-well [ph] appraisal drilling program at the Golfinho and Atum and the successful results enabled us to increase the estimated resources to a range of 15 to 35 Tcf of recoverable natural gas located entirely on our operated Offshore Area 1 Block.
Now we've begun to integrate well testing at this complex and hope to have results from the first flow test at Golfinho 2 in the very near future.
We completed our final well testing in the adjacent Prosperidade complex with a test of 3 zones as opposed to 2.
Each of the 3 zones flowed at facility-constrained rates of around 100 million cubic feet per day confirming the tremendous sand quality deliverability and connectivity of these wells.
As stated in yesterday's release in the coming weeks we expect to announce our FEED contracting for the first of 2 trains of liquefaction development while planning for future expansions to as many as 10 trains capable of producing 50 million tons of LNG per annum.
To put some context around that this project alone has the potential to transform Mozambique from having no LNG today to becoming the world's third-largest exporter [indiscernible].
Overall we couldn't be more pleased with the performance of our portfolio.
Our employees have continued focus and executed safely upon our objective and we delivered another strong quarter and results year-to-date.
As a result we are increasing our full year sales volumes guidance by 3 million BOE with no corresponding increase to our capital program.
At this point this new range represents 7% volume growth this year which is consistent with our long-range plan that you've seen [ph] We have targeted per annum.
And we continue to be on track to deliver objectives we established a few years ago for year-end 2014 despite a very challenging North American natural gas price environment.
With that we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator I turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> At Jubilee it looks like production for the quarter is turning up pretty well.
Can you guys just provide some context in terms of where you are at from a remediation standpoint and then how 2013 looks? Sure we'll be happy to do it.
I'm going to let Doug Lawler who's our Senior Vice President for International and Deepwater Operations handle that but you're right results are very encouraging.
Thanks Al.
We're really pleased with the performance of the acid stimulations that we pumped.
To date we have pumped 5 acid jobs which have significantly increased our production.
We've seen a record production rate at Jubilee in the 86 000 to 88 000 barrels per day range on a gross basis.
We look forward to pumping a few more acid jobs in the near future.
One is planned for the fourth quarter and we also look forward to the Phase 1A wells.
Initial production there from the first few wells is also scheduled for the fourth quarter.
And we anticipate that we'll continue to monitor the performance of the wells and should the acid jobs which are proven to be successful be required we will continue to implement and execute those in the future.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any sense of where are expectations right now for 2013 production just for Jubilee? We haven't provided that guidance as of yet.
I just will reiterate that we're very pleased with the performance and anticipate that these new wells from Phase 1A and the continued good performance from the acid jobs will result in really strong rates from Jubilee.
And Brian this is Al I think we'll probably defer to the operator Tullow on expectations of that sort.
So if I were you I would encourage to sort of look into Tullow for that answer.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> We will.
In the Niobrara you guys increasing the resource range talking about good performance out of both the Niobrara and Codell.
Could you break out maybe some of the Niobrara lobes and talk about what you've done to test the different intervals there? Sure we can talk about that.
I'm going to have Chuck Meloy who handles Onshore E&amp;P do that.
But I think you'll find that we don't really do anything different in any particular zone.
But I'm going to let Chuck go into a little more detail there.
Well Brian first I think the big news there in Wattenberg is the production continues to climb.
I don't know if you had the opportunity to look in the operating report to see the tremendous growth rate that we're realizing at Wattenberg.
The zones we're producing there both in Niobrara and the Codell about 2/3 to 3/4 of the wells is currently -- are in Niobrara and the balance are at Codell.
We've been testing both the B and C bench generally in the Niobrara and have an outstanding results in both and we continue to look at various ways to cut across the different zones and stimulate them to continued to increase production EUR from each well.
We're going to see continued growth.
We have 10 rigs running now and the production profile is just essentially straight up.
And it's really exciting as we crossed over 90 000 barrels a day for the field and we'll see that continue to climb.
Toward the end of the year we should approach 100 000 barrels a day for the field.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the Niobrara in your ops report you talked about down-spacing potential.
If you guys could give us maybe some more color in terms of total locations or what kind of down-spacing pilots you're planning on doing that would be very helpful.
Yes Dave this is Chuck again.
We're going through a number of experiments in the various areas of the field to decide how many wells ultimately we put in each section.
We're going to test up to 16 wells per section -- in total including the Codell and Niobrara ventures [ph].
And from that data we'll evaluate even further down-spacing if it demonstrates that it's the right thing to do.
We just see an outstanding performance in these wells and our EURs are continuing to come in over 350 000 barrels.
The other thing we've done that I think has a lot of opportunity for us is we're evaluating the various lateral lengths.
And so hopefully we can extend the lateral lengths out so that ultimately there's fewer wells with even [ph] more section in the pay as a percent of the wells.
So we get more exposure to the reserves for fewer wells.
All that's going on right now.
We won't really know the answer to that for some time.
But these permutation [ph] is taking place and like I said we're up to around 16 -- we're evaluating 16 wells per section.
I know others in the field are continuing to increase headcount and there's discussion even doubling that.
So there's just a ton of opportunity.
The system is working extremely well.
Our completion teams are doing a fantastic job getting the fracs off and our drilling guys continue to lower the cost per well each quarter and we couldn't be happier with how things are doing.
Research Division</strong> Great appreciate that.
And then in the past you've mentioned about selling potentially some of your fringe positions around the Niobrara.
Is that something that's still on the table or have the results been so impressive that you want to keep everything you've got in that area? I'm sure you're aware that we have a large position in the land grant and it cuts right through Wattenberg.
And so we're constantly doing small farm outs and farm downs in the area that attract industry dollars and leverage our surrounding position.
And I think we'll continue to do that both south and north of the field and that's just an ongoing process.
It's just to help expand our capital exposure and get us a few more looks without any more money.
We're really focusing right in the gut of Wattenberg today where our results have been outstanding.
I'll go in if I could.
I think your question may be more directed at the JV.
If it is maybe we can address that.
If not -- if Chuck handled you correctly where your concern is in terms of just how we're looking at the land itself that's great.
But if you are interested a little more on the joint venture discussions or evolution we can address that as well.
Research Division</strong> That would be helpful.
The only thing I would add to what Chuck said is that we're no longer looking at a traditional or JV in the central part or the core part of the Wattenberg Field.
We're focusing on our own capital dollars in the field on maximizing the benefit of the infrastructure and takeaway capacity the processing capacity we've put in place over the last year.
And we'll look to as Chuck mentioned more traditional monetization vehicles outside of the core Wattenberg primarily to the south and also some to the north.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
One last just maybe big corporate one and you may not be able to answer it at this point because it's too early but any kind of early indications towards how to think about '13 CapEx again trying to live within cash flow? Any color you can give us would be helpful.
Yes I'm going to have Bob again address that one.
We do have some early thoughts and I think as you've seen in the last several years we've been pretty efficient with our allocation of capital and you can anticipate that will be the case again in 2013.
Yes we don't have any specific numbers to share at this point.
We're going to be announcing those in February following request and receipt of approval in February from our board.
We look probably somewhere around February 25 26 to have some dialogue with investors.
That said we expect to still spend within cash flow as we have for the last several years running.
We would expect a modest increase in spending year-over-year and that's driven by continued improvements in production and increases in cash flow year-over-year next year in our base case model.
But we look forward to sharing with you greater detail in the future.
I think you could look forward to more of the same but expansion of the various programs that are doing so well.
Your next question comes from line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I got a couple of quick ones if I may.
First of all the FEED on Mozambique can you just give us an update on any thoughts on how you might go forward with the project in terms of your ownership? I guess we've been kind of anticipating that maybe you would take a similar route to Lucius before FEED was actually in place.
So can you maybe give us any information you can share? And I'll really appreciate it.
And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
Yes you bet Doug.
And I promise you we're going to have the operator pronounce your last name correctly next meeting.
I bet you never get that.
But to your question yes I think we've been reasonably consistent in saying between here and FID we certainly will take a hard look at selling down some of the 36.5% position that we have.
The optimal time for that is really a function of market activity.
We as you might expect get a lot of inbound interest.
We are continuing to assess exactly when the timing is best for us.
And I would tell you that nothing really has changed on that front.
The timing of it really is a function of when we see the right terms and conditions and consideration being established with people who are quite keen to get into this part of the world that in some cases if not all are very active in the LNG markets.
So I think what we have here and what the country has is a unique opportunity as I mentioned in my prepared comments to see a situation that's very unusual where our country today has no LNG and sometime in the very near future we'll be the third largest exporter in the world.
So I'm going to let Doug Lawler answer the question related to FEED but I think you should as we've said before continue to expect that at some point between here and FID there's a good chance that we will sell down some of the 36.5% interest that we have today.
Thanks Al.
We're working very closely Doug with the government of Mozambique and we anticipate that the onshore and the offshore FEED will be awarded imminently.
We are nearing final agreement on the land in which the LNG liquefaction facility will be constructed.
And so you can expect that FEED to be awarded for both the onshore and offshore very soon.
And we look forward to as Al mentioned with continued cooperation with the government as we move forward there that we'll continue to progress towards FID as we've stated before.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I'm not going to take the zinger on the name but we'll deal with that one later.
But my follow-up is really -- is kind of a 2-tier question and it's a tough one to answer I realize.
But we've had gas prices up I guess 75% from the low earlier this year.
You are still fairly gas-levered.
You've got a Tronox uncertainty that I guess where any idea I guess [ph] you could show there will be appreciated but I'm guessing you can't say much.
But the bottom line is you've got a share price which has continued to struggle and I'm just wondering I know we've gone backwards and forwards in this for a bit but at what point do you lose patience with that? And just give me your thoughts as to how you feel about the terrific operational progress but the failure for that to materialize in the stock and I'll leave it at that.
Okay well those are very fair comments as well as observations and questions so I'm not surprised.
You're reflecting some things that I know a lot of people feel and think about.
I'm going to let Bobby address the Tronox part of your question.
What I will tell you is that yes we're as frustrated as anybody that the operating success of this company now for quite a number of years that we're not at the top of the list.
We're certainly industry-leading with our operating results and our exploration success.
We did see a period of time there between the resolution with BP and before Tronox became a media event in January where the share price did quite well.
So we have reasons to look back in the fairly recent memory of knowing exactly that there is a share price out there that the markets embraced previously.
And consequently I think the executive management here as well as the employees believe that once we get Tronox in the rearview mirror the market's shown us in the past what they think the value could be if not more than that.
So I guess our reaction is it's frustrating to be where we are given the kind of operating results we've had.
And we're just going to have to be very patient with the process that we don't have a lot of control over in terms of the timing of when this court process comes to conclusion and a judgment comes from the bench.
So with that let me let Bobby address the Tronox.
Sure.
Thanks Al.
If you haven't I think it's worth taking a look again at the 10-Q that was filed yesterday and the extensive disclosure we've provided shareholders about the Tronox dispute.
We're still very confident in our case.
We still believe a loss is not probable.
We're pleased with the testimony through the end of the trial in September.
We're gearing up now for closing briefs and closing arguments before Judge Gropper in the second week of December.
It would be speculation on my part to tell you when we might get a ruling from the judge but it could take some time.
There's thousands and thousands of pages of written testimony and lots of witnesses over the summer and we want him to do a good job and provide correct reasons for ruling and findings of fact.
We still believe the merits of our case are sound that we don't believe Kerr-McGee had anything to do with the financial struggles or bankruptcy of Tronox and that Tronox in fact was properly capitalized at the time of its spinoff and IPO.
So with that I think there's no new news in that but we still remain confident in our position.
Just to add one thing to that I think what you've seen us try to do over the things that we do have control is be very value-added and very conscious of being good rate-of-return investors with our portfolio and from a company perspective and employee perspective we'll continue to do that.
And as the market starts to clear up with its uncertainty associated with one particular event we'll just see where it goes from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> In looking at your guidance it looks like the oil production was cut a little bit and gas came up a little bit as well.
Is that very similar to what we saw last quarter in terms of where you're seeing from some of your non-operators in places like the Marcellus where they're drawing a little bit more and maybe some infrastructure constraints around the edges cutting back on the oil a bit? Yes let me try to bifurcate that if I can.
Certainly on the gas side the volumes that you're seeing and others for us year-to-date are largely through non-operated positions in the Marcellus.
We've been surprised by just how productive Chesapeake's been.
We see them doing things frankly that are well outside of what we anticipated as we budgeted for what our non-op volumes would be for the year so it's fairly isolated to that.
I'm going to let Chuck if I can go into a little more detail there as well as talk about the oil.
But we're surprised.
I can't say it any other way.
It's just higher volumes coming out of the Marcellus than we had anticipated.
Yes Scott the only thing I'll add to -- with Al's comment on the gas is that the Marcellus results really speak to the quality of that resource and the high productivity of those wells in our core areas which encompasses both the Chesapeake operated and our company operated AMIs.
It's just a fantastic resource and we produce it at a very low cost.
So we're excited about the results there.
It is a bit of a surprise just the magnitude of them because we're now producing almost 1.3 Bcf a day out of that area from a standing start back in 2008 or '09.
So it's done extremely well.
On the oil side we continue to grow and you've seen the increases year-over-year.
And the thing that we continue to run against is that despite our efforts to keep up with the ever-expanding oil and liquids production in our operated areas particularly in Wattenberg and Maverick where we've seen a lot of growth just quarter-to-quarter I think we're up about 8 000 barrels just quarter-to-quarter.
As we saw that we've seen constraints.
And it's not always on the oil side but it has impact on oil.
For instance in Wattenberg the overland pass NGL line that goes into Conway is being retrofitted for expansion and there's been a number of shutdowns which cost us almost 0.5 million barrels of production in Wattenberg just this year.
So the capacity of our production is right on our expectations and we're generally very efficient in getting it out.
But occasionally we see these impacts like overland pass and even down in the Maverick with either gas or natural gas liquid production constraints downstream of our field.
And we continue to work those.
I think this is part of the growing pains we talked about several quarters ago.
These things are growing so rapidly.
Nobody anticipated this -- or you can't react as quick as we can grow it.
So we've seen just such tremendous results and that's bumping up against all the natural constraints all of which are under expansion.
And I think that's the great news is Wattenberg clears 100 000 barrels a day and the Maverick clears 100 000 barrels a day gross.
It takes a lot of work to get that product to market and I think we're proactive in getting it done.
We've got a lot of expansions that are underway as does the industry that will help us move this product.
And we'll see interruptions from time to time.
I anticipate seeing some more in the fourth quarter and maybe even into early next year.
That's just indicative of the rapid expansion of the production.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean that all makes sense.
And then when you look at some of your operated stuff that has associated gas I'll pick a recoverable place like the Avalon Shale and the Permian the East Texas liquids-rich play are those coming out as expected with the liquids cuts you all want to see? And as a point of context on the East Texas your data shows that you've been running somewhere around 25% to 30% liquids and I think when you've kind of laid the play-out in your Analyst Day earlier this year you were talking about 35-plus percent.
Yes the expansion on the liquids if you just want to talk about the Carthage/Haynesville in particular we've grown the liquids production year-over-date of almost 37%.
So it's running up the curve.
We've reallocated investment around the portfolio and taken activity out of that area and put it in the more oil-prone areas as we ramped up rig count in Wattenberg and Maverick.
We've seen outstanding results.
So we had one rig line that we were drilling in that was a little lean in Carthage but we've moved away from that area and got right back into what we wanted to do.
So I don't see any indication that we ought to change our direction here.
We've had outstanding results.
We got great economics and low cost of operations and the liquid yields are sufficient to deliver good economics.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could do just one last one obviously we've talked about gas prices now moving up quite a bit.
And you indicated your return to the Marcellus is very robust or at least performance has been robust.
At what point in time at what price do you guys start to think about whether or not you need to slide a couple of rigs back in the Marcellus? Where is that breakpoint relative to competing for capital against other plays in your portfolio? Scott that's a question you might imagine we get asked a lot.
And certainly the place that's going to see capital from us first is the dry gas plays Marcellus.
And so I'm going to let Chuck address the Marcellus but tell you beyond Marcellus as just a general comment I think we need to see a sustained $5 gas before you see us commit a lot of capital back into the gas portion of our portfolio.
And that's really driven by getting the kind of rate of return first off that we want to see.
And second a portfolio that frankly from a competitive perspective has a lot of other places that can get return without having to chase dry gas that has a lot of volatility around price discovery.
Scott specifically as it relates to the Marcellus you see really good returns anything north of $4.
And the thing we're dealing with up there as you would imagine is the same kind of things we're dealing in a lot of these areas where we're trying to schedule our rig activity with the capability to export our product.
So it's not only gas price that drives our activity.
It's all the other ancillaries that go along with that.
But if it was only on price I'll suggest that around the $4 mark maybe little north of that you'd see rigs pick up and start moving.
But that's just a speculation on my part.
I don't know how others view that.
Your next question comes from the line of John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of deepwater questions on timing.
In the Gulf of Mexico can you give us some sense of -- I know you talked about Coronado and Yucatan total depths and the spud in Phobos.
Can you just kind of constrain the timing on those a little bit? You bet John.
I'm going to have Bob Daniels address that but it's nice to start having Gulf of Mexico exploration questions again so thanks for asking.
Yes John thanks.
We've got 3 wells going up in the Shenandoah mini-basin.
We've got our operator at Shenandoah well and then Coronado and Yucatn.
They're all kind of about the same place.
They've got a ways to go.
I would say that probably the end of the year at the earliest we'd expect to have something out on those because they do have quite a bit of hole to drill.
These are deep wells 32 000 33 000 feet below salt -- sub-salt wells.
But they're going to take some time.
Beyond that you mentioned Phobos.
That will be drilled as probably spud towards the end of the year.
And we've also got another one called Raptor out in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico that we hope to spud by the end of the year.
So quite a bit more activity in the Gulf of Mexico and we've got a ways to go on the wells we're drilling right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You said you did have a rig lined up for Phobos correct? Yes we do.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one other deepwater just going over to Africa you talked a little bit about Cote d'Ivoire and doing some appraisal drilling around Paon.
Can you just constrain that as well? What's the plan there what's the timing? And where does Cte d'Ivoire sort of stand in the broader portfolio? How do you prioritize it? Well of course we got one well in the Paon discovery well right now.
So we have to figure out how big that is.
It has the potential to be a significant discovery.
We will be appraising it next year.
We also plan another exploration well on that block at the same time so we'll have a 2-well drilling campaign that we're working through the system.
As to the exact timing of when that will happen I don't know when that rig will arrive and start that activity.
But we do see good potential there.
It's just to the west of the Jubilee area and the Paon discovery looks like it has some potential to be significant for us.
So we will test it and beyond that we're going to be moving up into Liberia again on Block 10 where we anticipate drilling a well up there and then potentially going back into Sierra Leone and drilling an appraisal well to one of the discoveries that we have up there.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on a couple of the earlier questions.
In the Marcellus in your modestly higher year-on-year total company CapEx plan should we expect that the Marcellus rig count will increase? And can you talk broadly about the strategic importance of the Marcellus position in the portfolio given the competition that it has even with its high return relative to other dry gas plays with the competition for capital from some of the liquids-rich opportunities? Sure that's a very understandable question and we'll go back to Mr.
Meloy for that.
No we haven't concluded what our 2013 plan looks like today.
So this is just really speculation if you want to look at it like that.
Right now I don't really anticipate seeing a large rig ramp-up in the Marcellus.
We have a very robust program in our liquids-rich plays around the country in Wattenberg and the Eagleford and out in West Texas and Carthage and those continue to attract capital because of higher returns.
As we sit here today if prices were to rise significantly on the gas side I would think that you might see a shift in that but not a substantial shift.
I think we're pretty much locked into what we have there.
We're planning expansions with the export markets which will take place in 2013 and beyond.
And so we'll continue to feed it capital where we can get good returns.
And like I said earlier it's not just price.
It's also a capacity to move the product and that all kind of starts coming together in late 2013 and '14.
Research Division</strong> I guess from a strategic perspective and particularly with regards to some of your non-operated acreage do you see opportunities for monetization in the Marcellus or do you think that ultimately you will commit capital to that play in an investable time horizon that you think will be returns-accretive? Yes Brian this is Al.
I'm going to answer part of that and ask Bob Gwin to answer part of it.
As it relates to the Marcellus we see that I think the way industry does as one of the leading onshore gas plays we have in this country.
Consequently today with gas prices being where they are we're not really an interested seller and I'm sure you're not going to be surprised by the comment that there's probably not a deep market at good price discovery with buyers.
So I don't see it really being something today that we're motivated to monetize.
I'm going to let Bob talk a little bit more about how the market is for that.
But I think in our mind today we see it as a maintenance mode on how we're developing the play how we're allocating capital to it.
As both Chuck and I said earlier it is a play that doesn't require the same threshold for price to have even better rates of return in a portfolio that's as deep as ours.
So in the near term it does get a chance to feed on capital a little bit sooner but I think strategically we see both the op and the non-op in the Marcellus being a hold position for us.
Maybe there's a day when the market gives us a reason to look at it a little differently for monetization.
So with that let me segue to Bob.
The only thing I'd add there is that as you might expect we look at assets across our portfolio for monetization opportunities or ways that we might see a disconnect between its value to us within our portfolio and its potential value to others in the market.
But we've spent a lot of time looking at Marcellus given its dry gas.
And to Al's point it's one that you hang onto.
That's one of the best gas resources in North America.
It's going to be one of the most attractive assets at almost any gas price in North America and we've got a very significant and attractive position there.
So I think that's one of the ones that's a core asset going forward regardless of the gas price environment.
That said how much capital it's going to attract over time how many rigs you'll move into the area over time is going to depend upon the rates of return available on the marginal rig compared to other places in the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then lastly on Mozambique how should we think about Eni's role as a competitor or partner with Anadarko in the LNG -- in LNG development? I would put them more into the partner category.
We don't see them as a competitor.
We've had very good discussions with Eni.
I'm optimistic that we're going to find ourselves on agreement on some pre-unitization terms and conditions that will lead to a more near-term discussion with the government about unitization in general.
So I've been very encouraged with the way in which our discussions with Eni have gone.
I participated in some of those.
And I don't see them as competitor.
In fact anything but.
And I think we're today much more aligned and I think our ability to hopefully in the very near term have some additional discussions jointly with the government are pretty likely.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of quick questions.
Going back to the Wattenberg is there a -- with respect to the resource range being moved up is there any contribution from an EUR increase for a given size lateral or is this more about more zones and tighter density in those zones? Those are [ph] primarily about just the confidence in the results that we've seen.
We've seen just outstanding results.
We're leaving our per well results around 350 000 per well for about a 5 000-foot lateral.
And what we've seen in our testing program as our laterals extend you see a proportional increase in EUR.
And so we're continuing this experimentation with that making sure that we got good economics and we're not taking incrementally larger mechanical risk by doing that.
But the early returns look good and we'll continue to test that theory.
And I think the other operators in the area are seeing similar results with regard to better EURs with longer laterals.
It makes common sense.
So right now we're just planning on the 5 000-footers but those could creep up with time and EURs would do likewise.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
As a follow-up to that on LOE you guys -- you mentioned in your prepared comments you've been successful moving that down.
Is that -- should we expect more of that going forward? Is this something that's reflective of something that's -- a dynamic that's in play U.S.
onshore or some other place? Charles it's a tough question.
I never like betting with Chuck on the first tee because I always know whatever he's telling me he's going to do better than that.
And I think with LOE we've seen that over time.
We always think we have kind of found ourselves in a position of being as efficient as we can and then our drillers do certain things or our field personnel do certain things or Chuck and his guys do certain things.
We have a lot of people that have done a lot of things to make this happen.
But Chuck's pretty good at fairing on how to squeeze a little more juice.
My guess is there may be a little more juice there but he's done an awfully good job year-to-date as well as if you go back several years when we put Kerr-McGee and Anadarko and Western Gas together.
The success we've had in taking costs out of our system particularly LOE I give Chuck a lot of credit for that.
So with that don't bet with him on the first tee.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Or this tee whatever one we might be on the U.S.
onshore tee.
I'll take your question on this.
We've had a lot of success driving down cost.
I think it's quite a tribute to our field organizations and their creativity.
What we're doing of course is using all the tools that are available to us right now which inclusive of automation and surveillance tools in the field it's reduced the need for men to run back and forth to wells all day long.
And so we're driving fewer miles we're maintaining our production better because we can see it on a real-time basis and we can improve the uptime as we move along.
The other thing that's helped us immensely is the success that we've had at the Marcellus and Wattenberg and Maverick and these other horizontal plays which are mostly flowing wells.
So our lifting costs are low.
We've been able to -- as the mix has changed and we get more and more horizontal flowing wells it's helped us drive it down.
In addition to that if you look at the company perspective we haven't had any significant deepwater workovers in a while and those are big movers in our OpEx.
So the combination of incremental flowing wells good performance of our field organization operating organizations are really working to push costs down safely and using all available tools and technologies as well as the mechanical integrity and capability of our offshore fleet offshore wells to not require workovers have been a great combination.
And as our volumes grow our denominator gets bigger and that's helped it as well.
So it's a perfect storm right now.
Everything's working in our favor.
And I'm really encouraged by the way the organization is performing and the assets are performing.
And I think that -- I don't see a huge move down but I wouldn't be surprised if we see it float down from some quarters particularly when we don't have major work-over into these.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> That's great detail and exactly what I was after.
And then one last quick hit I think at one point you guys were talking about testing Deep Nansen in 2012.
Has that kind of been pushed into '13? Charles this is Bob Daniels.
It has been pushed into 2013 but we do have that on our drill schedule for next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi from Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question for you.
I wanted to get back to the Gulf of Mexico as well.
You had a nice appraisal well at Vito last quarter.
I'm just curious if you could provide some color as to how things are progressing and how you expect to bring those volumes to the market.
What kind of time frame potentially could we be looking at for that? What looks to be now like a Lucius-size volume base that you have there.
Well if I could I'm going to let both Bob Daniels from an exploration standpoint and Doug Lawler from an operations development perspective address your question because there's elements that both need to touch on if I could.
Bob why don't you start? Eliot on the Vito appraisal we've had real good success out there.
I'd say that's a nice field.
It's good thick sands very continuous.
We've got the structure fairly well pinned down.
We've got one more well that's going to be an appraisal well to just prove up the rest of the volumes.
But it's been a real good success for us and we pretty much handed that off to the development team now.
They're working with the operator on the development plans.
So I'll let Doug talk about that.
Thanks Bob.
But just to echo Bob's comments we are very encouraged about Vito.
It stacks in the line of the continued project and portfolio success that we've had in the Gulf of Mexico.
Because of where it sits at present and the timing we probably are looking at several years out before we see first production.
But the size of it definitely is a commercial resource and we're very encouraged by it following the success of Heidelberg and Lucius and just a really really good run of good oil opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico as we continue to get back to work there.
Your next question comes from line of Ross Payne from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Al can you talk about your general strategy surrounding hedges and where you are for 2013? You bet.
I'm going to give you a few comments and then I'm going to have our VP of Global Marketing Scott Moore give you a little more detail.
Philosophically if you're not familiar but my guess is you probably are we look at hedging to help us give the cash flow statement a little price insurance.
It's really done to ensure balance sheet integrity and to not have big price swings move around on us because a lot of our capital spending when we go into a year we can move if we need to into different places.
And certain of what we do certainly from an exploration standpoint we're not looking into the next 12 to 24 months with what we think prices are going to be.
So we don't really want to get in a situation where prices move away from us and we didn't have enough price insurance with our cash flow statement to ensure good balance sheet integrity.
So what we try to do is we try to take a fairly measured point with both gas and oil and try to give ourselves some safety nets if prices do things that we don't anticipate so that we don't put that pressure on the balance sheet.
Now specifically you've seen us in the past use 3-ways more often than not.
We have started using more swaps and I think you will continue to see us do some of that.
We've actually done a little of that this year and rather than taking all of his thunder away I'm going to have Scott walk you through what we've done and what we're looking at doing and why.
So just to add to Al's comments on the strategic nature of our hedging we have added in this quarter to our current natural gas position and for next year a modest increase on our fixed-price swaps as well as we initiated a Brent crude oil hedging program both in 3-ways adding 26 000 barrels a day 3-ways and 34 000 barrels a day of Brent fixed-price swaps to that program and we continue to evaluate the forward markets relative to these types of structures for opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you speak to what percentage of your natural gas and oil is currently hedged? For '12 or for '13 Ross? LLC Research Division</strong> '13.
So in round numbers we are approaching 1/4 of our crude oil production hedged and not quite half for our natural gas.
Our current year-to-date Ross is if we can get the kind of price thresholds that we're looking for I wouldn't be surprised to see us end up at about 50-50.
With hedged volumes we use a variety of derivatives versus an unhedged position and if we can see that we're not concerned that we're taking the top off of it and kind of like the price insurance for the reasons I mentioned that it buys us.
I'm showing there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Al Walker for any closing comments.
Okay well thank you all.
I'll reiterate what I said earlier today.
I know a lot of you that are on the phone and some that aren't are going through a very difficult week.
Our thoughts are with you.
We wish you well as you move through this both professionally and personally.
We hope you and your families are safe and I will extend if there's anything we can do please let us know.
We know this is a tragic event.
It's got a lot of things still to go before probably the market opens again.
So your thoughts -- our thoughts rather are in the forefront of what we're trying to do this week.
We're still trying to run a company but we know a lot of you are going through some pretty difficult situations.
So best wishes with that.
And operator thank you and we look forward to seeing everybody another quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q4 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now turn the conference over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
I am so glad you could join us today for Anadarko's fourth quarter and full-year 2012 conference call.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
So we encourage you to read the full disclosure and GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last night's earnings release.
Also on our website we have provided a comprehensive summary of the company's operations activities in our operations report.
In a moment we will turn the call over to Al Walker who will discuss the company's 2012 results and Al is joined by other members of our executive team who will be available to answer the questions later in the call.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
2012 for Anadarko was in a word outstanding.
First we delivered record sales volumes of 268 million BOE well above the high end of our initial guidance.
Second we replaced 162% of our reserves at a cost of less than $15 per BOE before the impact of price revisions.
Third we achieved a 67% success rate from our deepwater exploration and appraisal program.
Fourth we monetized more than $1 billion of assets and established a market value of more than $6.5 billion dollars for Anadarko's remaining 91% interest in the WGP following its IPO.
Fifth we generated $852 million of adjusted free cash flow during the year.
Our record sales volumes growth was driven by our capital efficient use of onshore assets growing it at 16% over 2011 with 25 000 barrels per day increase in this higher margin liquid volumes.
The Wattenberg field in Colorado was the single largest contributor to this growth increasing liquid sales volumes by 11 000 barrels per day over 2011 total production of 18 000 BOE per day which generated rates of return in excess of 100%.
This past year we increased our net resource estimate in this field to 1 billion to 1.5 billion BOE and doubled the number of identified drill sites to 4 000.
To the south of our core Wattenberg acreage we closed the $114 million transaction for 59 000 acres retaining a 20% royalty interest on fee acreage and believe by doing this we have accelerated the value of these assets by using third-party capital Beyond Wattenberg we achieved record sales volumes in many other growth areas of our portfolio.
These include the Eagleford shale our East Texas horizontal liquids plays the various Permian oil prone horizons we are actively developing our greater natural Buttes acreage and the Marcellus Shale.
We have also continued to significantly improve drilling efficiencies across all of our active areas.
In the Eagleford for example we exited the year with our drilling cycle times reduced to an average of 9.2 days giving us a 26% year-over-year improvement.
Complementing the success of our onshore programs 2012 was one of the active years in history for our deepwater international exploration and development teams.
That included a resurgence in the activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Earlier in 2012 we achieved first oil at Caesar Tonga and we are currently in the process of completing a fourth development well in the field.
We also continue to make significant progress at the Lucius development our next major megaproject in the Gulf where the construction of Lucius is on schedule and our first development well as you saw in our release encountered 910-feet of oil pay exceeding what we have seen in the unit to-date.
During 2012 we promoted a portion of our interest in Lucius by closing a carried interest agreement with a partner.
This transaction should fully fund our capital for first production significantly increases our project returns and values our interest in Lucius at almost $2.8 billion where we have very little amount of capital invested.
We have also advanced the Heidelberg project the first oil we believe in 2016 awarding long lead items taking a design and build-to approach constructing another truss spar with capacity for Lucius at 80 thousand barrels of oil per day and we continue to be very active in the Gulf of Mexico with high-impact exploration appraisal and development operations on ongoing at eight locations.
Turning to our international activities and start with Algeria we expect to achieve first oil production this quarter from the first of three facilities at El Merk and steadily increased sales volumes throughout 2013 as this new facility ramps towards capacity.
We remain committed Algeria our partnership with Sonatrach and our operations there.
As I am sure you can expect we have taken appropriate actions for Sonatrach and the Algerian government to enhance security for people and facilities.
We will refrain from discussing our activities on any specific regarding security at this time and hope you will understand.
So if I could let me move onto East Africa.
Mozambique continues to be an incredible success story.
Our discoveries at Golfinho/Atum doubled the recoverable resource estimate of our offshore area one block to a range of 35 to 65 Tcf.
The projected timeline for the first LNG cargos remains in 2018.
As we're awarded Competitive FEED contract and reached the Heads of Agreement with Eni concerning development of one of our fields.
In West Africa our partnership submitted the plan of development to the Canadian government for the Atum complex.
Atum will be the second FPSO development offshore Ghana following Jubilee which is now producing more than 110 000 barrels of oil per day.
We expect 2013 to be another very active year in our international drilling program with a significant number of high-impact exploration wells.
All of E&amp;P activities we've described today provide confidence in our ability to achieve our goal of 3 billion barrels of reserves by the end of 2013.
In 2012 we added reserves at competitive costs of $14.65 per BOE excluding the impact of price revisions.
Our proved developed reserves now comprise 74% of our year-end total an improvement over the previous year's 71%.
Natural gas prices decreased by about 31% on average for the year yet only about 2.5% of our reserves were impact almost all of which returned at today's strip prices.
In 2012 we also followed through on our commitment to further strengthen the balance sheet.
This was driven our free cash flow and cash received from the successful Algeria tax resolution.
By year-end we repaid all of our borrowings under our $5 billion revolving credit facility reducing our net debt to cap ratio to 34% from 41% and we ended the year with $2.5 billion of cash on hand.
And as we wrap up todays' prepared remarks I want to thank our employees and contractors for an exceptionally strong operating exploration and finishes results we delivered for our shareholders again in 2012.
Operator if you would let's open it up for questions.
Okay.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
A couple of questions on Lucius.
When we look at the 910-feet of oil pay there how is that divided between the Pliocene and Miocene sections and what does it suggest from a resource potential protective both for Lucius and maybe on a rest basis [for].
Brian I think there is no doubt that we couldn't be anything more than just delighted and tickled with how that well has drilled out.
I am going to let if you dont mind I am going to have Doug give you a little more color on that but at the same time I am not really sure there is any takeaways for Phobos.
I will probably let Bob Daniels answer that if you dont mind and if I can just leave you the impression I think we are all very excited.
We think it means probably lots of good things for us but it may be a little early to start to try to give additional estimates.
So with that if I can let me turn it over to this to Doug on the Lucius and then turn it back to Bob Daniels for the Phobos question.
Sure thanks Al.
Brian you are right.
We are very excited about Lucius.
What we found in the Pliocene and Miocene sands there is very encouraging and exciting.
The project is on schedule on budget and at this point in time we have not broken out the split.
What we can tell you though is just to reiterate the guidance that we see the field as a 300 million barrel plus development and we are extremely excited about the options that the Miocene could add to the development plan.
Yes Brian on the Phobos question.
No we never really had a big concern about sand content in the Pliocene and Miocene down at Phobos.
We have got a lot of confidence that we will see a lot of sand down there.
It's really the risk down there is whether it is going to be charged coming out through the Hadrian complex and the Phobos.
So we will just have to wait and see on that but remember at Phobos too we have got a deep objective of also the lower tertiary Wilcox that we have to get down to.
Great thanks.
Then separately when you think about your mix of associated gas the Marcellus gas and dry gas we recognize you havent put out items but can you talk about your outlook for gas production trajectory? Does the associated gas in Marcellus win out? Or should we expect overall gas volumes to fall going forward? Brain generally our expectation is that our gas production will be relatively flat.
Time to time it will be up a little bit primarily driven by the outstanding results we have seen in Its all said by the clients we have seen similar mature fields like IHUB and our base fields onshore.
Brian this is Al.
We will give you more color in a couple of weeks but our plans are just to maintain the four rigs we have operated there now.
We are not taking it down and not taking it up but I dont think you should expect that industry wide in this price environment is going to do a lot with dry gas but the one dry gas basin it does have economics of Marcellus.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
My question on the domestic property.
Just curious some of these huge growers sequentially Wattenberg and wet Haynesville.
So what can we see sustainably on a quarterly basis and on what are the limitations on growth here in the intermediate term if any? U.S.
Onshore Exploration and Production</strong> Subash this is Chuck.
Everywhere we are putting capital we are seeing outstanding group and we are particularly focused on the liquids activity in Wattenberg Maverick West Texas and East Texas.
Thats where most of our capital is going and we continue to see growth.
We will give you guidance in February where we are headed with regards to the company growth rate but I think that the types of trajectories that you have seen in those assets in particular if you look back through the operating reports of the kind of trajectory you would envision the future because thats the kind of investment we are putting there.
The quality of investments continue to be outstanding and the growth rates particularly on the liquids side has just been remarkable.
Our whole expectation here is to deliver very high returns on the drilling programs and I think thats what we are doing.
I would like to add to that the fact that in addition to the way we are looking at it from a upstream perspective we also have tried to marry that with the midstream and thats why you have seen us do what we have done in the Rockies with both front range express and then the plan that we are bringing on down in the Eagleford area midyear.
So our belief is as we turned from '13 and to '14 to reach that 3 billion barrels of proved reserves target we have out there for the end of '14 that these midstream developments that we have been spending money on we will actually see a lot of growth both from a production and a reserve standpoint onshore which will always I think in the near term be heavily dependent upon the success that we see both at Wattenberg and the Eagleford.
Okay thanks.
And the follow-up here on monetizations this year.
Maybe you will talk to this in your 2013 guidance but if you can comment on it now on the Mozambique are there any other big projects for instance in Tallow talked about selling down TEN and is that in the cards for instance for you guys? And if you can confirm whether TEN is somewhere around $5 billion-project? Well it probably is best if I can.
I am going to give you my views here but the better views probably need to come from Bob Gwin but I think we only have a small interested at TEN it's very different for than it is for Kosmos and even though they have the same amount as well as Tallow but as it relates to that particular development I think we are encouraged by what we are seeing with the way the government's reaction to the plan of development and I don't believe Doug we have any plans at all in terms of selling down there.
That's correct.
We are very encouraged and working with the partnership and the Ghanaian government with the advancement of the TEN plan.
At present we don't see any direction that we would pursue that would involve selling down there so we're not going to speculate on what are our plans to do but we are encouraged by it and we have targeted production 2016 and so looking forward to moving that project forward and we see that that capital range in rough estimate is approximate to what we see that the development to cost.
I think we are in that block.
Follow-up on monetization.
On monetization the other asset to keep an eye on is Brazil.
As you know early last year we had identified result for divestiture soon thereafter around the time we had our investor conference last year there was discussion of you proposing a potential unitization between the [block] and the Whales Park complex to the Northwest so we put our process on hold given that that unitization process has taken little while thus far and we want to go ahead and move forward.
We decided to hope to get Brazil back on the market and see if we can work some kind of a structure such that any redeterminations around the unitization might be able to be adjusted pro forma sale but the timing of that is difficult.
We are obviously targeting 2013 [our] regulatory approvals etcetera as we saw in BP transaction previously that cause us to think that that it would probably be later in the year before it was actually closed.
Subash I am sure there are companies that do a good job of actively monetizing bringing more value but we got to be at the top of anyone's list.
If you go back to '06 and the way we have done that and just last year looking at what we did with the OCI sale as well as what we did in the non-core area outside of Wattenberg what we have done with promoting Lucius and I guess as you will hear more about that in a few weeks when we talked about Heidelberg.
I think you can continue to expect that we will be active in the management of our assets and trying where we can to accelerate value.
Congrats and thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I cut out there Al So I don't know if you said anything particularly related to Mozambique but can just recap where you are at in the monetization process? Sure.
We are looking to sell down 10% working interest going from 36.5% to 26.5%.
We are in the process of marketing that with someone else's who also selling and our hope is that we will have something in the coming months to discuss with you in more detail but our view there is simply if we can find the right consideration with the right terms and conditions we would be interested in trying to reduce our interest to 26.5% from 36.5%.
Okay.
Is it ongoing any backend timeframe as far as when the market is [down by]? No.
I'll let Bob describe if I can.
It'd probably be best to let Bob do that.
Yes.
The only thing I would add is that we have talked in the past and it remains accurate today that we would like to do so around the time of FID which we have talked about being around time at the end of this year and so as we move forward it's a matter of getting deeper into the process find the right partner and then has FID comes together we would expect it to be in place by then.
David as you might imagine we get a lot of inbound interest and I think our view was to finally formalized the process and invite some people in that we thought could in fact be good partners for us for in some cases different reasons and we just started that here at the beginning of January so we are kind of early into what I would call a quite market of 10%.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Barracuda and then Black Probe can you talk about how we should view that and how that changes your focus going forward? Or did you start to back North and concentrate on that but could you give us some more color on that? Yes David this is Bob.
We drilled those two down there to see whether or not the liquid potential that we had thought could exist down there.
It was actually real and both of those wells were unsuccessful.
We found really good sands.
We found a lot of good things down in that area but obviously these two didnt work.
We have got a lot of information now thats new to us.
So we have got to roll into our interpretations and see what it means to us going forward.
We have moved back to the North and anticipate the rest of activity.
This year we will be focused on the North where we are two (inaudible) now drilling an appraisal well.
We have got some exploratory work to do even farther to the North some prospects that we have talked about before.
So we have got an active program.
But anytime we invest that kind of capital and get that information we need to roll in to our interpretations and see what it all means.
We are very disappointed with what we found at this point (inaudible) will see what it tells us going forward.
Okay and the last question.
Brain I guess attempted to ask the question but any guidance you want to give us I guess February 20th you are doing the Analyst Day or a conference call but can you give us any guidance around any change out from prior years as far as staying within cash flow similar metrics or similar type targets to end goals for Anadarko? Any color you can give us on 2013? Well there is really little that we would like to share this morning when we are sharing it obviously in detail in two weeks but I think in prior calls we have made the comment that we would expect to see a moderate improvement in our level of spending.
We would certainly expect to still spend within cash flow.
Thankfully the assets that we have are pretty robust from a cash generating capability due to the brent linked focus on oil and the cost controls that we have had in place.
So we will be able to increase the budgets there within cash flow and continue to improve the balance sheet as we bring in additional funds from the Algerian side as much as we did this year.
I would only add to that Dave is we are an exploration company.
You can expect that we will continue to be spending in exploration the kind of things we have done in the last several years.
Whether we can continue to sustain what is an incredible success ratio at 67% to 70% will be a difficult dive but I think one we are prepared to take.
I think our guys do a lot better than most of that and that we are at the end of the day an exploration company.
So you should expect we will probably drill somewhere in the neighborhood of another 25 deepwater wells again this year.
We will balance that with some good predictable repeatable results onshore and in the Gulf of Mexico to give you the kind of the things that we have expected to achieve with the guidance that we gave you back a few years ago over our five-year horizon which ends in '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Your line is now open.
Question on that 3 billion barrels of reserve target for end of 2014.
There are some moving parts there.
One is that gas price rises you will rebook some lost reserves.
The other is you are just going to go out and spend your F&amp;D and get us certain volume there.
The third is taking lumps of reserves off of say an FID or gas contract for Mozambique.
How should I balance those in terms of thinking about CapEx for the next two years? Well I think sort of the watchword on that is we hope and expect that this year we will start to net our plateau rather our net spend and continue to grow the gross spend.
I look at Lucius and I would like to see us do more of that.
I think we have got a good shot at doing that with Heidelberg.
Bob Daniels does a good job of using third-party money on the exploration to reduce our drive home exposure and yet gives us a lot of swings of the bat.
So from a reserve perspective we are going to continue to spend at about the level we anticipate this year and continue to do enough to be able to get to that point of getting the 3 billion barrels.
Now Mozambique will be a fairly significant contributor to that for the first time post FID.
Maybe what we should do is give a few other people some chance to give you some more color on that.
So let me have Bob Gwin talk a little bit about it from what he sees in his model and then maybe Doug Lawler can talk about it what we see in Mozambique specifically since thats the largest contributor.
It's essentially more of same across the portfolio where from a reserves booking standpoint we are doing very well in the Wattenberg field.
Obviously with the growth rate we have got there the economics are robust Eagleford is obviously a very large contributor across the onshore U.S.
portfolio.
We have been in a very good position to continue to book reserves.
Those reserves continue to be liquids related.
We talked about the aggregate this year driving up in liquids from 43% to 46%.
As we look to the Gulf of Mexico that's a little lumpier but obviously we've had a long history there with the expiration projects we had in place and the future sanctioning of place like Harvard following up on Lucius.
We'll be booking oil reserves and then Mozambique is going to be oil indexed and very significant but that's obviously going to be a significant lump in 2014.
That will be proved undeveloped obviously and most of the rest what I have been about is focused highly on proved developed as our PUD percentage continues to fall when we think we take a relatively conservative approach on our offset our and our shale bookings.
Shale bookings have [portfolio] in the last year but they are still a very small percentage overall so there's a pipeline of bookings there that we think is pretty substantial and even well beyond 2014 as we continue to bring additional trades on in Mozambique and execute the plan around the world.
Okay.
And you book Mozambique if you have x volume of gas contracts you book x over three post FID or x over two or x over four? How do you think about that? Well we haven't provided that type of detail yet.
I think the key there to note is that the appraisal activity has given us considerable confidence in our reserve resource potential in Mozambique and we are proceeding with our reserve certification.
We expect to have that complete and prospered and Golfinho/Atum complex this year.
That's an important element as we proceed towards FID along with several other issues there that need to be addressed with respect to marketing and how we progress that development so I think what you can expected is that from your question there will be all of those sources will contribute and with respect to Mozambique we are on track and encouraged by what we are seeing there from the appraisal and hopeful to have reserve certification very quickly.
Great.
Then a crude by rail looks like you are moving some volumes out Wattenberg by rail.
Any color there? Who is it? Is it third-party rail? Is it something you are interested in doing more of? Bob this is Chuck.
It is third-party rail.
The reason we are doing this to of course expand our market exposure and put upward prices on realizations in addition to just the local markets and the markets one that we have now.
And is that stuff ending up with say [James] or something like that? It can.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Morning guys.
Just only a follow-on to prior question on rail.
Is it 20 000 contracted in 2013? I mean does that satisfy your takeaway capacity needs here for 2013? You mentioned the rail realization uplift which is interesting to me and then question whether you think about rail asset infrastructure investment as a consideration given your ability to sell that into your MLP? Yes.
Evan this is Chuck again.
The 20 000 does cover our 2013 and 2014 expectation for production.
In addition to what we anticipate locally into the White Cliffs Pipeline so we are working every element to make sure that we have the ability to export all our crude and we are pacing our development along with those infrastructure additions.
The rationale as I mentioned earlier is to get as broader exposure not just to cushion but other even potentially waterborne market so all that is to keep the market competitive with regard to this gigantic new source of crude volumes.
Got it.
I know you mentioned in your operations report you tested seven and no real color there any color or kind of guidance of how many rigs you are running in 2013 and when we might get better understanding here on the resource? Thanks.
Evan as w mentioned I believe on our last call we are testing those wells now and we are just getting the information we need to make decisions on how we progress.
We will give you better color as we get some additional production information.
Most of them came online in the last quarter 2012 so still early days and you will hear more about our Utica views as the year progresses.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is now open.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hi good morning.
Question from me on the Eagleford.
If you look at the peak volumes of 54 000 barrels a day versus the Q4 average of say 39 000 what were the drivers of that delta? I am sure some of it just bringing a bunch of wells on it one point in time but seems like still a pretty big delta.
Yes Brian I think what you ought to read in to the peak number is the capacity to sell volumes.
The Eagleford like many of these other large resource plays continually have constraints on them with regard to the new plants being tied in pipelines going down for expansion those type of things.
So what we find is and it is particularly true in the Eagleford.
What we find is that our ability to sell our total flow volumes are all often times restricted and every now and then the stars and moons line up that we can sell our full volume and thats when you see the peaks.
All that congestion that we see in the Eagleford is slowly getting worked out.
The growing pains if you will are slowly dissipating.
Our big opportunity is coming up in the second quarter of 2013 with the (inaudible) plant.
When we get (inaudible) and its export facility in place it opens whole new avenues for crude and (inaudible) gas to be evacuated from our Eagleford and our uptime is raised to our capacity will improve and you will see really nice gains in our production volumes.
Pickering Holt</strong> So if I understand correctly when that plant comes on you will see a step up inflection point in terms of your sales getting closer to what these daily task numbers are? Yes.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay and then I think your comments before were on the Utica but on the Marcellus the production uplift was pretty strong given the activity levels.
What are the leading-edge EURs right now for that Northeast action that you guys are drilling? Right well across Lycoming and Bradford counties and down in Sullivan county you are just incredible wells the economics are strong.
It still has a good investment thesis for Anadarko.
The EURs continues to deliver really good economics.
We were seeing wells with our BCF type EURs and as importantly any investment decision we are seeing our cost come down.
We are down probably in the order of $2 million per well over just a couple of years ago.
That in combination with the gas flow rates we are seeing say 10 million a day per well depending upon where you are in the sweet spot good EURs and outstanding capital efficiency we are just getting good returns.
I think you will see the Marcellus continue to grow.
There is a bunch of infrastructure projects for evacuation there.
So all that combined makes it a really good opportunity for us.
Pickering Holt</strong> Then just last from me a follow-up on that.
Should similar to the discussion on the Eagleford do you guys have a bunch of pent-up production thats just ready for infrastructure? So you talk about the bottlenecks getting better but is there are actually shut-in sign or curtailed production at this point? Not really.
The pace of completions up there have been such that we were able to sell a good share of our volumes.
We havent had the percent of downtime if you will.
There are a number of the drilled but not completed wells that are still out there that we are slowly working up that inventory.
So that gives you a little bit of pent-up opportunity but it is not that idle capital in regard you have it behind the choke and you can't sell it.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Switching over to the Wattenberg for a little bit.
With the number of wells that you got drilled identifying both the Niobrara and the Codell can you talk about if you seeing any deviations in those results and what you are seeing as far as results from the standard laterals and downspacing efforts there? This is Chuck again.
First of all we are just thrilled with the results from Wattenberg.
The production continues to climb.
I hope you saw where we produced over 103 000 barrels a day for the quarter and it's the liquids is up 17% just quarter-over-quarter so the thing is coming along when we are doing a lot of spacing test.
Industry is doing quite a lot of spacing test as well as lateral length test.
And we are slowly slowly pulling into is around 12 wells per section.
There will be sections who have 12 wells per section probably defined about two-thirds Niobrara third Codell.
We've really pushed the limits lateral length out to 9 000 feet and 10 000 feet.
We do see better results with longer wells the first few longer wells that drilled.
With the longer laterals you have [more] more completions to do so there is a timing element involved and so we are looking at the optimization of the economics on cost versus lateral length.
The good news is that if you look at the performance it's really starting to tighten up and we are getting better and better at getting these wells activated and online down-line the infrastructure is there the EURs are starting to consolidate around this 350 000 thousand barrels for the wells at about 5 000 or 6 000 foot lateral lengths.
So it's just turned into an outstanding investment opportunity for us.
We've essentially done a well with a vertical program in the field and the gone strictly to horizontals.
Everything we are doing right now is to find the constraining parameter and then work through it so that we can celebrate the value delivered.
Appreciate that and then maybe diving into the cost on that a little bit.
In your operations report you highlighted that on a per well basis you are saving the incremental $250 000 as a result of that tying in the water trunk line.
Can you talk about what average well costs are there now with that kind of downtick in the well cost? First off I would like to call out our drilling group and just congratulate them on the outstanding performance they have had out in Wattenberg.
We continue to learn.
We've reduced our spuds rig release time about 38% year-over-year and our drilling costs are down about 15% so we are fighting and we are always fighting inflation also service cost and trying to outpace those with efficiency.
One of those is the water on demand process that we have now where we can deliver water to our rigs to our completions through pipelines [and] so that we have very low cost delivery before we had to put a bunch frac tanks on location do a lot of trucking to get water to those completions so we have done away with that cost.
We've also done away with that footprint where there's now many trucks on the road it's a very environmentally friendly type of process that we are undertaking and our goal was to put these Wattenberg wells on line with the forehand right now and we running between 4 million and 5 million on each one of them.
We want the average to be on the lower end of that.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate it.
Then one last one just with a lot of liquids drilling I know a good portion of its oil oriented.
You did have some decent ethane rejection that took place in the quarter.
Talk about that going forward.
I know you have mentioned some of the projects you are working on but is that something we should anticipate for a couple years or is that going to be cleared up by the projects that you outlined earlier on on the call? Well there was really not an infrastructure issue.
The ethane rejection is just purely associated with the economics and right now particularly in the Rockies we're better served with selling it is gas as opposed to ethane.
These markets move around quite a bit.
We've seen this in the past.
We are hopeful that the ethane markets will improve but until they do we are fine with selling it as gas in these liquid-rich projects.
We still get the value from propane butanes and so forth.
So the economics are still there.
We'll deal with the ethane markets but I think some folks think it's an infrastructure issue that will be resolved.
But our plan is really not it is just markets and we continue to recover I think mostly in our Southern region and reject in the Northern just because of economics.
And Dave if I could it might be helpful if we had Scott Moore who handles marketing for us talk a little bit if you he would if he would like us to.
We do have a constructive view on that thing longer term.
So maybe I will just turn it over to Scott.
I think that he pointed out that in the comments and that we are well situated for long-term growth in that liquids demand.
The low cost supply for North American really sets the U.S.
chemical sector for being in a strong competitive position long term and our midstream is structure leads us well up for that growth.
Obviously that kind of pace of expansion demand is growing back since suppliers run a little faster in the near term and the timing of buildout between crackers fractionation and processing creates near-term imbalances right now.
We might consider (inaudible) that thing relative to demand but it will work through that over the next couple of years and long term we really like that outlook.
And I think just to conclude on that Dave we are trying hard to find every opportunity we can to not be captive to Conway and looking for ways to get to Mont Belvieu.
If the industry finds solutions for getting things from Conway the Mont Belvieu in addition then thats great.
I think we would rather try to take where we can the opportunity to control exactly how our NGLs in particular are coming out of our northern areas can get to Mont Belvieu.
Great.
Well I appreciate the additional details guys.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
If I could go back to monetization Al very quickly.
Heidelberg what kind of working interest would you guys see is appropriate on that and as you go through this monetization phase in 2013 and I guess over the next couple of years how do you prioritize the use of cash in terms where you like the balance sheet to be and so on? I have got a follow-up for that.
Doug I think probably looking at what we did at Lucius is a good indication of how we would think about Heidelberg.
It is not so much I targeted working interest reduction but rather being able to sell down my working interest to have our future development costs covered.
That is the way we think about how we would want to use other people's money.
So that when you look at Lucius you realize that we really have very little net capital invested in something thats worth $2.8 billion today.
I think you should expect we will do more of that.
Thats exactly the philosophical way we have approached Heidelberg.
Maybe I could turn it over to Doug to give you just a little more view in terms of what we see there because he and Bob have been working quite constructively and while we havent turned it over to development we do have a sense at this point for what the development costs are going to look like.
Thanks Al.
We are really excited about Heidelberg Doug.
It is going to be another great project for us and we have got it loaded right in the queue behind Lucius.
We expect to sanction it this year.
As Al mentioned we havent provided any guidance on what we would look to sell down there.
The key is to capture the greatest amount of value for the working interest and if we can cover the capital going forward we will consider that a big win in our program and Bob Daniels and I work real cooperatively and closely on that to manage that third-party spend to capture the most value for Anadarko and bring it forward as quickly as possible.
Great thanks.
My follow-up though if I could jump back to the Gulf of Mexico again the Lucius and the gas you drilled the Spartacus unsuccessful well and of course Lucius now looks to be substantially better.
Can you help us join the dots as to what didnt work at Spartacus and what the read through from Lucius could be to Provost in terms of different horizons and targets and so on? Doug its Bob.
On Spartacus the sink line separated from Lucius to the North and East and we had a seismic amplitude there that lined up with fault down the closure and we didnt trap hydrocarbons there.
So the seismic amplitude that we thought maybe associated with hydrocarbons was not and we have a leaky fault there.
So we didnt actually trap any hydrocarbons in it.
If you get down to Phobos we are looking at a four-way structure both at the Plio-Pleistocene and at the lower tertiary level relatively unfaulted and in fact not faulted in the Plio-Pleistocene.
A few minor faults in the lower tertiary but nothing that penetrates on and out.
So they are very different play styles between Spartacus and Phobos.
The difference between Phobos and the Lucius complex is there you got major faults that radiate out from the well counts all the way through the Plio-Pleistocene and we think there the hydrocarbons were originally migrated into the lower tertiary have leaked and have been trapped immediately in the subsalt section which would be the Pliocene and that's what sets up Hadrian and Lucius to get that same sort of accumulation of Phobos.
You are going to have to take the hydrocarbons from Hadrian a Phobos through a syncline and then back up into to full at Lucius and that's what we are testing in the Plio-Pleistocene.
Of course the of un-faulted lower tertiary Wilcox sets up nicely given that we think that Lucius was [breached] and this one does not look like it should have the same breach capacity.
That's terrific Bob.
I appreciate the fuller explanation.
Last one guys.
I hate to bring it up.
Any update you can or you would be prepared to share on Tronox? And I will leave it there.
Well it's an unexplainable question.
I won't blame you for asking but I am sure someone was going to ask it as well so that's just up on.
There is really not much to add at this point that we are just waiting for the judge to come back and maybe if I could I'll let Bobby give you a little more color.
Yes.
Thanks Al.
Doug there is no shareholder here who is more anxious to get a decision from [Judge] than I.
We are still very confident in how the case laid out the testimony that was presented in and all through the closing arguments as well.
The last reply briefs were submitted last week and I would love to say we'll have some clarity by somewhere around the second quarter.
There is no firm schedule by the court but hopefully the sooner the better.
As we've said before we still have not put any reserve on this case because we don't believe a loss is probable so I think is about a complete update.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
It's just a quick one for Chuck.
With respect to the price related revision so I assume mainly dry gas was a lot of that like Wattenberg vertical? Well the price related revisions were all associated with dry gas.
Now John the price from 2012-2011 was substantially different and we dealt with about 275 back in 2012 and well under 2011.
So assuming that we get price to stay generally where they are today most of those price revisions would come right back to us.
If you look at the non-price related revisions we also took off our vertical program in Wattenberg as I mentioned earlier.
That's something that we don't see as drilling and so we did the right thing we took them off the [books] That impacted our reserve replacement but it's a one-time deal and we will of course fill in those same reserves with horizontal drilling and substantially more reserves with horizontal drilling as time progresses.
Okay.
With respect to completion efficiencies are you finding with your well designs.
I mean you talked about increasing your lengths.
What about the size of fracs survey staying the same are they going down are you seeing less profit? John we continue to do a lot of experimentation and it's really play-specific which works best and were trying to do is an optimization evaluation of looking at the cost of these completions against UR expectations because every time you change the parameter in the completion you get a get a different UR responsible so it's really around optimization and I think the industry will tell you that the bigger the fracs the longer the fracs the more sand you put in there the more UR.
That makes sense but comes at a cost but working the optimization angles and there's all kinds of parameters we are dealing with frac lengths frac types cluster density you name it we are trying to optimize around it and doing all the work in each one of these place to get the up to momentum.
Okay.
Thanks.
Last one for me is on the Gulf.
Now that the industry is backup to speed to pre-Macondo levels but you are having any issues in terms of permitting getting things done with BOEMRE? John this is Bob.
I'll start from the exploration side and if Doug wants to add anything to it but we are not having issues per se but we understand is the process they put in place post spill and that process is more time-consuming more onerous from a documentation standpoint but it is clear.
We understand what we need to have and what the BOEM requires.
It means that we have to plan our business much further in advance to start the process and make sure that we have permits in place when we are ready to drill a well have rigs available.
So we are doing an awful lot preplanning.
We know exactly where we are going to be drilling in 2013.
Well I would say almost exactly at this point and we are already looking at 2014 because we have to have lead time to make sure that we have all the permits in place that are required.
Your next question comes from the line of John Malone from Global Hunter Securities.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
I am just following up on John's question about the Gulf of Mexico.
Obviously you had a busy first half.
Can you guys give us a stance at the sequencing of the wells you see around the Shenandoah mini basin and in general in the deepwater gulf? Yes John this is Bob again.
I am glad somebody asked about that.
The Shenandoah mini basin we have got three wells going down there right now.
This is playing off a discovery we made in 2009 where we had 300 feet of oil pay and very good reservoir rock properties and good fluids in our Shenandoah one discovery.
We found that we were able to get out there and drill our first appraisal well of it and then we got two exploratory wells going with Coronado and Yucatan.
Coronado and Shenandoah are both at TD now and we are really pleased with what we are seeing in that Shenandoah mini basin.
Of course we can't give any details because we are just in the process of acquiring the actual logging and fluid data and that will take several weeks before we would have anything that we could say is definitive.
But what we have seen today we are really encouraged.
So I would say that those two are down.
Yucatan is a little bit farther behind but it is out of salt and we expect that to continue over the next several months.
So look for more information as we complete our final evaluation but we like overseeing today.
Okay thanks.
Just one quick accounting question.
You are seeing a bit of bump in SG&amp;A this quarter versus last quarter last year.
Is that something we can learn right out going forward? Or is that just this quarter? No John this is Colglazier.
That is actually included in our items affecting comparability on page seven and its the $126 million one time impact from the compensation cost associated with the WGP IPO.
Okay thanks perfect.
Then lastly just so I understood and heard you guys correctly you have an actual $4 billion to $5 billion overhead available on your credit facility? Is that correct? That is correct.
It is fully available.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks A couple of follow-ups here.
On the Wattenberg area you sold some acreage just south of the Wattenberg area.
Have you all done any drilling down there? What can you say about some of the prospect in that acreage drilled at Wattenberg? Scott this is Chuck.
What we have done is put together a lease package and we sold it to increase activity in the basin.
We of course obtained an overriding royalty position in that from our land grant.
So we have a lot of economic value still going for it there.
We look at it as very perspective.
We are going to focus on is what we view as a big thing and thats Wattenberg.
The reason we are doing that is to continue to accelerate the value of delivery out of Wattenberg.
Scott this is Al.
I think of that as just our ability to use the land grant and a way to do R&amp;D with somebody else's capital.
We are very interested to see how that turns out.
We do think it is prospective.
I think this is gives us some option value.
Okay so you all have been turning the drilling yourselves down there? Is that fair? Well I would say very limited.
Nothing that would be material enough to discuss but I think our view is that in order to do the work and stay focused on the core area of field we thought this was the best way to do that and be able to test some ideas down there.
Keep in mind outside of Wattenberg we have more than 500 000 acres.
So we have got a lot here we would like to be able to use and get to know better by using other people's capital.
Okay do you have more acreage down there? Something works just to do your own developments or I would assume part of that 500 000 is also down there yet? You can easily see I think on our ops report we have a substantial amount of acreage via the land grants and mineral interest that we have that comes up as well as other additional acreage so if it were to worse we have plenty of room down there to go to work.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And moving over to Marcellus just so I understand you had a pretty nice bump in production and was that increased well related to infrastructure specifically because it seemed like a really nice up in the quarter.
Well that is a combination of completing wells and increasing our footprint from an infrastructure perspective.
As you know there's several new pipelines that have come online in the area that's given us addition wallets and we've finished up a bunch of completion that has given us a boost in production as well as the in the Chesapeake operated area they have also increased their completion count and we're in just in a really good spot so when they come on and 8 million a day production goes up.
Okay So combination of a bunch of factors.
Okay.
Then in the Haynesville or I guess I would call the East Texas area production jumped pretty nicely there as well and that continues to be an area.
It looks like you are adding 35 million to 40 million equivalent per quarter and that stuff is still call it 70-ish percent the dry gas there.
It looks like based on your ops report is that something as you look forward into 2013 that the liquid still carries economics strong enough? If you look at the ops report I think the thing to focus on is our oil volumes essentially doubled and as been our NGL volume so the play is delivering good economics and we continue to invest on it.
There is no dry gas.
All the gas production comes along with on some really solid liquids production and we just happened to be in a really nice spot and our team has done a great job of monetizing that asset delivering a lot of value to Anadarko shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking for all these questions this morning.
Most of mine have been addressed but there was one follow-up I thought I'd try on Lucius.
Can you share if you are seeing a water level on that western side or what kind of column you proved up there and then with the appraisal well going down the east side.
Now is that designed so that it could further extend the column? Hey Charles this is Doug Lawler.
We have not seen water level at this point in time and I would like to stress that the optionality that we have there with the Pliocene development and what the Miocene adds to us we are very excited about.
And the program that we have going forward with additional four wells this year will help to continue to advance the development and the options for upside potential is there.
So like all of our developments and the moment and we are regaining in the Gulf of Mexico we plan on having optionality and potential for increased volume and additional wells with the facility.
So one of these future appraisal wells could be still testing further down dip on the different part of the structure is I guess what I am interpreting.
Is that fair? Yes.
All right.
Great.
That was it.
Thank you very much guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi from Capital One Southcoast.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Quick question.
Could you just refresh us on the timeline for Phobos [T being] and kind of where you [tiding] and where you guys are in relation to that also do you have a data room opened for Heidelberg yet? I will start on the Phobos first Bob.
We know we spud that in December.
We said it's going to be about 120-day well.
Remember we've got the dual objectives with the Pliocene and then also the lower tertiary so we are always and we'll wait until we get the [TD] and get full valuation before we talk about it.
This is Al.
As it relates to Heidelberg we have started a process there and I think you should expect some time in the coming weeks and not too long after that weeks and months plus we'll be ready to talk about it but we are not this morning.
Okay great and lastly very high level.
Should we expect any slowdown in the ramp up at El Merk or not? At this point in time we are sticking with the guidance that we provided previously.
We expect first production in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie Capital.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the time.
I know we are running late in the call here but I guess following up on some comments that were made regarding the outlook for perhaps the plateauing of net CapEx spend in the coming years? Can you walk through what your priorities might be for any free cash flow that might start to get spit out of the model? Looks like that could start to be substantial.
Just curios if you have any thoughts there? Yes Joe this is Al.
If we get to a point where I think management feels fairly confident that we have reduced some of our capital intensity in the coming years I think our first priority would be look at a dividend yield increase.
So that would probable be the first step we would go.
We have got a lot of work to do in order to get that point.
There is an argument you hope you never get to Bob Daniels continues to find a lot of things for us to put our development dollars to work on.
One of the things we are seeing is here the ready market somewhere from post exploration success to appraisal to development that we can start maybe more aggressively looking to bring third-parties in to the process to accelerate our value and not have to be capital-intensive.
Once we get that to where the six of us as management fairly comfortable with it I will take that recommendation forward to our board and see what they have to say.
But that would be sort of if you were looking down the road that would be where we headed if in fact we convince ourselves with those facts.
Okay and you have been in the mode of monetizing as a way to strengthen the balance sheet and bringing capital and funds in some of these future projects.
Is there a point where you might be in position to get more creative on how to address the portfolio or look to high-grade the hundred portfolio from an acquisition standpoint? Or is it still harvest what you have got continue to prove up additional success with the exploration program and then look to balance out your future capital needs? Just curious about has the thought changed at all? No it had not.
I think we are the beneficiary of being an exploration company and a pretty darn good one.
Our ability to generate are all inventory of opportunities is probably one of the things that makes a unique.
Today our inventory looks pretty darn good.
I think we feel comfortable about our assets.
There is really few things on the margin that we would like to be in and that we are not and my hope is and belief is that we will continue to do things through the drill bit to add that inventory versus going into the M&amp;A market.
Okay and then just one last one.
In Mozambique resource size is pretty substantial with buyers having various opportunities for LNG sources going forward and a lot of debate and uncertainty about how the pricing of those projects will shake out and there are some other comments made recently about how Henry Hub or some sort of Henry Hub plus model might start to work its way into the pricing structure.
Can you shed any light on how you see things laying out? Or what you might need from that standpoint to move forward with off take for Mozambique gas? If you dont mind Scott is probably best to give you additional color.
I think one of the things we find very encouraging and having been a part of some of the early discussions with prospective buyers for the LNG is that there is are very ready market.
How it gets priced and the pricing mechanism for that we are certainly in discovery on that at this point.
We feel pretty good about what we are seeing.
So in answering this because I know Scott will give you better answer that I will nonetheless I will tell you that there is nothing so far thats disappointed us.
Yes this is Scott.
We are quite encouraged with what we are seeing from the buyers.
They like the world class resource the opportunity to access it its geographic diversity.
We have been marketing this in an oil index perspective.
There is much precedent in the market for that and the buyers are familiar with that and structures that they might want us to look at and we need to be competitive with that.
But I think we are quite encouraged overall with what we are seeing in the value that we realize for the LNG.
I see we dont have any additional people in the queue operator.
Is that true? Yes sir.
There are no further participants in queue.
All right.
Well let me just close by saying again we felt like 2012 was just simply outstanding as outstanding as I can tell you.
The management here and employees feel that 13th even be better maybe even be one of our best years ever.
We'll continue to stay focused on being able to generate very strong returns for you and converting resources and accelerating value wherever we can.
Think our track record of being able to do that at this point is pretty strong and we are very excited about what '13 is going to bring to us.
And in a couple of weeks we will give you a lot more details but thank you for being on the phone this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
We are glad you could join us today for Anadarko's first quarter 2013 conference call.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last night's earnings release.
Also on our website we have provided a comprehensive summary of our global activities in our quarterly operations report.
In a moment we will turn the call over to Al Walker who will discuss the company's first quarter results.
Al will be joined by certain members of our executive team who will be available to answer questions later in the call.
With that go ahead Al? Thanks John.
We appreciate everyone taking the time to be with us today.
We felt we had an outstanding first quarter in 2013 is shaking up to be breakout year for Anadarko that we have talked about.
To highlight this we achieved record sales volumes in Q1.
This was lead by 16% year-over-year increase in oil sales per day.
We announced few monetizations which exceeded $1.2 billion during the quarter but most significant was the $860 million deal for Heidelberg.
This further enhanced our use of capital in a very tax efficient manner.
We announced the new GoM exploration success including one of the biggest deepwater oil discoveries in our company's history and we achieved first oil at the EL Merk development in Algeria.
Importantly we generated very strong cash flow and further strengthened the balance sheet.
Our U.S.
onshore plays are major contributors to the company's strong first quarter performance achieving record sales of 555 000 BOE per day representing a 16% growth versus Q1 '12 and this was against the headwind of ethane rejection which took away more than 10 000 barrels a day of production.
Before we highlight the strong operating performance we achieved in the Wattenberg and Eagleford it is worth taking a moment to know the attractive pricing and value we received again this quarter for our crude oil volumes.
Our domestic crude oil continues to enjoy premium pricing relative to WTI due to the fact that most of our production is waterborne benchmarked and a majority of the U.S.
onshore production is light to medium quality.
And as you can see in the graphic it's limited in terms of the gas condensate production we actually realize.
The value uplift this clear as our overall average price is almost $103 per barrel or $808.60 an average premium to WTI over the period.
The Wattenberg field continues to be a top performer.
Our sales volumes were enhanced by liquids increase of 45% year-over-year.
To accelerate value we tripled the number of horizontal wells drilled in the first quarter 2013 and we expect to increase this over the course of next year and this year.
This asset enjoys the strongest return on capital characteristics on our portfolio with an expected rate of return exceeding 100%.
The Eagleford Shale is also delivering exceptional results.
Total liquids for the quarter increased approximately 60% over the same period in 2012 and we are expanding our takeaway capacity with the 200 million a day gas processing plant which will increase our throughput and yields from the liquids and should come online in the second quarter.
U.S.
onshore is complemented by advancing development of our global projects.
During the quarter Anadarko and Sonatrack initiated oil production at EL Merk complex in Algeria where we expect oil volumes throughout the year to build the next rate around 30 000 barrels per day net to Anadarko.
As two facilities and three additional fields are brought on line.
In Ghana gross daily production has averaged 104 000 barrels of oil per day year-to-date and an expansion of the gas handling capacity at the FPO to enable higher oil volumes is being planned and we are working with the government to sanction the TEN project.
The Gulf of Mexico developments includes the Lucius spar which recently set sail on schedule from fabrication yard in Finland for the Gulf of Mexico and then 80 000 barrel a day the Heidelberg spar which is now at the firm of the queue in the construction.
In Mozambique we've continued to make good progress on all fronts.
Of particular note we achieved our reserve certification for area one supporting initial liquefaction train associates with Anadarko operated Prosperidade complex and this development remains on track towards achieving first cargoes in 2018.
Exploration continues its industry-leading results.
In Mozambique we had an additional exploration successfully Orca-1 well in Area-1 which encountered approximately hundred 90 feet of natural gas pay and a separate accumulation fully contained within our block.
We have two appraisal wells now planned to delineate this discovery.
And the Orca enhances our development options and flexibility in Mozambique.
In the Gulf of Mexico we have been very busy and we have delivered incredible success so far this year.
Accelerating the value of the newly discovered Shenandoah basin is critical.
This is one of the company's largest discoveries ever the Gulf of Mexico a short-distance away in the same basin we participated in the Coronado discovery which encountered more than 400 net feet of oil pay and sidetrack operations are already underway.
Additionally drilling is ongoing at the nearby Yucatn prospect which is our third exploration well in his new basin.
We recently announced the Phobos discovery which encountered approximately 250 feet of net oil pay in the lower tertiary.
Further appraisal activity is now being evaluated and we will incorporate data from the well into our geologic models.
Phobos is located about 11 miles South of our Lucius development which could enhance its economics as future infrastructure is installed.
As busy as the first quarter was we are having more wells' drilling planned during the balance of the year in the Gulf of Mexico.
Operationally we had another very strong quarter as detailed in our operations report on our website.
If you've had time to review this you saw us reduce unit cost improve wellhead margins and deliver operating efficiency across our active plays.
Our deep and balanced portfolio now enables Anadarko to grow production and reserves with value.
Capital allocation and our development portfolio continues to be driven by rate of return which favors oil and liquid-rich gas opportunities.
And in spite the current strengthening in the natural gas prices Anadarko will need to see a sustained prices well above the current spot for dry gas opportunities to compete for capital in our portfolio.
Recapping our financial results for the quarter we generated discretionary cash flow more than $2 billion reported net income of $0.91 per fully diluted share or $1.08 per share excluding certain items affecting comparability.
Our strong cash flow generation and value accelerating monetizations enabled us to strengthen the balance sheet and improve our leverage ratio to 32%.
The first quarter's results are a great foundation for another outstanding year for our company.
As I said earlier this year we believe 2013 could be a breakout year for Anadarko.
We have a number of exciting things ahead of us throughout the balance of the year to deliver better than 5% year-over-year sales growth to receive the court's ruling in the Tronox case we remain confident in the merits of our case continue to be active worldwide in exploration and delivery portfolio of success similar to prior years and to continue to realize the value via active portfolio management whereas (inaudible) monetizations are going to allow us to reinvest this awarded or realized capital in other parts of our business to achieve growth through value.
With that we are happy to take questions and operator we will turn it back to you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Can you expand a little on the comment with regards to Jubilee production that you expect the gas handling capacity to increase in oil volumes until late 2013.
Can you just give us an update there on well performance at Jubilee? Then when you think about where oil volumes can go? Does it get to the 120 000 barrel a day capacity and stay there or should we expect something above or below? Sure you bet.
Doug Lawler and I will tag team you on this one.
I think some of what we are talking about there you will hear more from the operator Tullow but we are very encouraged for the things that we have talked about today that we can point to with respect how well that deal is progressing.
Doug you might take just a few minutes and talk specifically about some of the things we are seeing.
Sure Brian as you know the facility is rated at 120 000 barrels a day.
We are currently producing about 110 000 on average.
The work that you are describing is to do some top side facility work that will result in giving us some additional gas injection capability.
We see that being able to get us up to around 120 000 barrels a day from the 110 000 at present.
The current drilling activity the phase 1 program as well as the acid jobs that we have conducted have performed really well.
At present the flow potential from the field is greater than what we can produce through the FPSO right now.
So we have some additional asset simulation work as well as a few other Phase 1A wells that will be drilled later this year and into 2014.
But we are hopeful that this additional injection capability will get us up to 120 000 and in our forecast for the year we expect it to be in the 110 000 to 120 000 range as that gets implemented.
The target time for that is targeting in the third quarter.
Great thank you.
Then as a follow-up your natural gas production has been perhaps surprisingly resilient certainly relative to your guidance and then potentially in the price environment.
Obviously this question varies by area.
So can you talk to what extent this is being driven by the backlog reduction in area such as the Marcellus and where that stand versus greater gas in the production mix in some of your associated gas areas or just better well performance overall? You bet.
Since most of this is an onshore issue for us.
I am going to ask Chuck Meloy if he would to address the question.
Brian as you have seen our gas production has been steady to slightly up.
There is two or three good reasons for that.
The first off is just the Marcellus performance.
To if you look year-over-year the growth has been phenomenal.
Our sales are up about 71% from prior year and thats a combination of completing the wells we are drilling and unloading the backlog that was in our non-op position and getting the infrastructure completed in that area.
As all that has come together you have seeing some very cost efficient low OpEx costs really good margin for gas come online as some of the lowest cost gas in America.
So it has been an exceptional performing asset for us.
We have also seen just really strong performance from the IHUB area where when we originally came in we would have exceeded the TCF of production from that field and the wells have outperformed our expectations and continued to deliver gas that quite frankly we didn't see in our [curve] so those two and smaller other bits and pieces added up to a really good story for us.
And is here Marcellus backlog now at a normal level or is it still an abnormal backlog where do you see that going? Well I am not sure what normally be then but I think we are in a position where we've got it worked down in the Chesapeake in particular work there has been quite considerably and the addition of infrastructure out there I think that is a big of impact on is just completion so we are starting to open up the pipes and give us some room to grow that's been a big production.
You next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
When you look at your success in the Gulf of Mexico can you talk about how are you looking at your shipping around activity.
I mean you are looking to do praise the Shenandoah for what's in the near-term or by the end of the year and what potential impact does have (Inaudible) kind of what comes next.
Let me take that in part and have Bob Daniels take the other part.
I think what you've seen is we continue to have extraordinarily good success both with exploration and development drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
It's you've got the Lucius and Heidelberg coming along at the next mega projects from the Gulf of Mexico with oil production starting next year for Lucius.
As we look at our inventory I think you can continue to expect that we will management that pretty actively just like we have been.
And frankly additional exploration success there is not critical.
We are always happy when we have it obviously because it gives us more optionality but I am going to let Bob address the question exactly what he sees from an exploration standpoint through this year next because we do have a lot of things still to drill.
You made reference to one well that is drilling but we have a lot of other things still planned to drill through the course of this year.
Yes Scott.
Bob here.
We have had really really good success there and that's a great problem to have with our we're going to appraise these things.
Shenandoah obviously needs an additional drilling.
We plan to get rig out there before the end of the year to drill the next well on it.
We still are awaiting on the Yucatn results just south of us three to four miles.
That's going to be really key for the overall Shenandoah Yucatn area and then we are drilling an appraisal well over at Coronado where we've been non-operator.
Regarding rafter we are not down on that well yet so we'll have to see what we find but we are very hopeful we'll need appraisal work there.
Again a good problem to have and we'll just have to roll it into our overall rig planning based on the results that we see but we do have Shenandoah scheduled for right at the end of the year to get a rig back on and do another appraisal well there.
Is there any change to you guys have plans in terms of what you've done in the past gave you the fair amount of success potentially monetize some of these successes prior to development has that continued to be something you look at in the Gulf? Absolutely you've seen what we did at Lucius and what we did at Heidelberg and the value that we are able to realized for those opportunities so that's a great model.
It carries our forward capital and put some marker as to what the value of these discoveries are.
Okay.
And one final question if I could.
Permian volumes were down a bit in the quarter sequentially.
It looks like you guys still feel like active there yet but was there a specific reason for that? The Permian has been a great performer for us.
The reason put it down is essentially the transformation of the operator ship on our non-operated position and those guys are just getting up the high screen doing a good job and they are starting to build up their program and I look for that to reverse pretty quickly.
Okay.
Is that sort of the Chesapeake sales to [Chevron] or..
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
On Mozambique I saw that you had in your operations support that you would receive the reserve certification on third-party for the Prosperidade complex but I was curious if you could maybe offer some detail on where that same process is for the Golfinho/Atum complex? Sure John this is Doug Lawler.
Where we sit at present we have some additional testing working and working with a third-party consultant there.
Its in progress.
We still are very confident in achieving that in the timeline we have provided for that is also in 2013.
So along with the success there and this phenomenal exploration discovery we continue to see you progress on the reserve certification necessary for us to move forward.
Okay thank you.
Then returning to the Shenandoah mini basin this might be borderline on fantastic but I think when we got the press release from operator on the Coronado well I think they just logged that they hadnt taken pressures or anything and I think I believe I read that they are sidetracking down a bit there but I know thats what is it three blocks two blocks to the east and one block to the south and so its a long away from Shenandoah presumably you have a pressure testing reservoir now and can you offer any view on whether you are in the same pressure regime as the Shenandoah discovery and whether there is any outside chance that this all could have a common oil water contact? Yes Charles.
The Coronado and Shenandoah accumulations dont line they are be connected.
The data doesnt really sport pad.
Its a long ways away and we go through massive (inaudible) to get over to the Coronado prospect.
So we are in the process of appraising that down dip and see what kind of oil leg we have the lowest.
So we are looking forward to that.
I will say that on the Shenandoah Yucatn complex which is about 3 miles separation that one very well could be one common accumulation but of course we have to get the Yucatn well results and see what it tells us.
But structurally and stratographically that will make a lot more sense than the over to Coronado which is much further away.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
I wonder if you could share any updates on the monetization process in Mozambique and specifically address how you think that any potential target tissues might be tackled as part of the process? Sure happy to do that Doug.
Actually I can't.
I will have Bob Gwin do that and I will probably have a comment to wrap up with on that.
Doug this is Bob.
We are really pleased with the indications of interest that we received a few weeks ago.
Obviously we are in discussion and working on the transaction.
I think it is fair to say we expect it would be a 2013 transaction after government approval would need to received we reach an agreement with a potential buyer.
As far as taxes go we will see.
Obviously the tax situation around Co.
was fairly obvious if we were to sell an asset versus a corporate structure here that tax would be a little bit higher.
So we are looking at our economics on the bids that we received on an after-tax basis rather pre-tax basis but we will be working with the government to determine what the ultimate tax on it will be.
Doug I would just add.
We feel like as we got into this it will take us a while to come to a conclusion with one of the potential buyers here and progress so far has been really good.
The indications of interest that Bob made reference to were all quite strong and we are looking forward to bringing it to a point where we can talk about it.
Forgive me.
Have you got any exclusivity on this? No.
Oaky thank you.
My follow-up I dont know who wants to take (inaudible) but back to Shenandoah if I may.
I think in prior presentations you have shown Shenandoah on a timeline around 2017.
I was just wondering is it too early to really think about development options here and if not could you give us some framework as to what you should be thinking about in terms of when you might bring that one to production? I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Hi Doug this is Doug Lawler.
Your comment is exactly right.
It is very early and we are looking forward to the appraisal program.
Obviously its a very big discovery.
We will be bringing more information forward as we learn more and study those options to bring it to development.
Are you thinking about unitized development Doug? Or it would just be still too early to talk about that? It will be very early Doug.
I appreciate the question but at this point it is very early.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly looking at 2Q production guidance 1Q had a nice jump up from 4Q.
Can you guys kind of define what is delineating sort of the drop-off in production? Yes.
I think there's a couple of reasons around it I think Chuck will walk you through some of that.
I think Dave the word [Carlson] Island have is best you guys can try to look at as a year-to-year rather than quarter-to-quarter.
I know there is some need to do the quarter-to-quarter.
But I think we have continued to address these question it seems like almost every quarter we certainly guide something we think hit we see issues out there that we think we are trying to manage around.
And I think as you can fully appreciate as we think about our business we do not think about it quite as much quarter-to-quarter as maybe others do.
This is Chuck.
If you go to the announcements that we made the big issue that we try to orders back we had installed rail lifting in the first quarter and that's pretty straight now.
The other we have that we are dealing with currently is we are in the middle of doing the tie-ins down in the Brasada plant area and so we will have quite a bit of downtime associated in our Eagleford production area as we tie in the Brasada plant and the associated facilities in the field.
That's just going to be an up and down deal and we are going to do it safely and carefully and we are taking a very conservative approach to how we put all that together.
It's just it's part of the drilling plans we talked about a couple of quarters ago as we start this infrastructure build out you get into these spots from time-to-time that you throw a lot of downtime in and this quarter is going to be one of those as we significantly enhance our infrastructure position in not just Eagleford but in Wattenberg and Permian as well but to a lesser extent from product impact.
Okay.
I appreciate that and then maybe kind of get back to annual levels.
If I look at 1Q CapEx obviously it comes in at a run rate well below what your targeted full year CapEx is.
Can you kind of walk us through the progression of that throughout the year or should we be kind of traversing that to the lower end of CapEx? No Dave.
I think you should expect that were to be to the midpoint or the upper end of that range.
I would extrapolate from the first quarter that we are going to under spend for the year.
It's just the timing of when we expect those capital plans to actually work their way through into reality.
And we still anticipate a fairly strong year of capital spending but not outside of the guidance that we have given you and everybody else.
First quarter is just sort of like some of the things.
It's just the timing issue and a lot more than that.
Perfect.
One last one if I might just on the Wattenberg.
Can you guys give us an update on kind of latest leading edge lateral lengths costs production associated with those longer rail spacing.
I mean obviously that was a homerun this quarter so I'd love to hear any kind of incremental update you have there.
Yes Dave.
I'd probably view it as a grand slam.
It's been a wonderful quarter for us.
year-over-year our production has gone up substantially from somewhere in the mid-20s 26 000 barrels a day to 44 000 barrels a day on the oil side which is a huge uplift and that's because we are in the middle of doing a lot of optimization work not just with lateral length but with spacing completion design facility design putting the big diameter pipes in ground that allow us to move these incredible quantities of hydrocarbons that are coming out of these wells.
And all the infrastructures associated with the Lancaster plant so we are in the middle of all of this.
It's a big optimization effort.
What we have seen is very similar to what the Noble has announced with regard to their pilot test.
Longer is better to a degree and we see more and more recovery.
There is a pretty straight correlation between lateral length in EUR and I think that you will continue to see that.
There is a natural risk element that we have to take into account with regard to so much completion jewelry in these Wells but if you get too long but with what we are trying to do is optimize all of those brands.
There's not just we but this was between wells.
This is in the number of oils we put in each section reaching and we are in the middle of all that.
We feel like it's a little early to come to any conclusions on specifics of that optimization.
But we are on the job.
We are accelerating the value add of that thing.
We are up to 12 rigs now.
We started out thinking we will drill around 300 wells this year.
We end up drilling around 340.
Most of them will be longer laterals than what we originally intended.
So we know the value of this thing.
It's immense.
We are on the job to accelerate that value.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
I just wanted to maybe follow-up on the Wattenberg.
Really strong growth.
AI think you achieved a 113 000 BOE a day.
I was wondering if you can comment your guidance for the year is 121 000.
Do you see any upside to that number just based on the pace of what we have seen far this year? Well I will answer this in part and Chuck will answer it in part.
We dont guide to the mid-point of our expectations.
We guide to what we think we can achieve.
So sure if we were able to achieve better than average results we should actually achieve better than we have projected.
But we also keep in mind that there are things that we have no control over whether being one of those mechanical issues being another.
So if you can appreciate we dont try to pull the string to tight when we are looking at guidance and we like to be able to continue to have the types of results year-over-year that give us good momentum good confidence around being able to achieve what we say we are going to achieve.
So I always expect that things go well or in that we can actually always be in the position of overachieving but I am always mindful as well that there are things we can't control.
I guess just a quick follow-up to that.
Just saying as you are ahead of plan at least regarding that guidance.
So are there any other infrastructure things that we need to think about in the balance of the year that may even constrain the growth until you get Lancaster online? This is Chuck.
The Lancaster tie-ins will come in during the fourth quarter.
So we placed in our guidance a reasonable downtime expectation in the fourth quarter.
We are hopeful that during the course of the year that we can make those tie-ins optimistically such that we dont incur all that downtime.
That would enhance our volumes for the year.
The other thing thats really cool out there is as we would now manage to get our total water feed is on our total water feed is on we have got water on demand.
So our completion machines just working fantastically.
The guys are doing just a fantastic job of lowering the cost.
We saw over $350 000 per well savings in the last quarter with regard to lower water cost lower water delivery cost and then crude completion costs.
So all that is working in our favor and the drilling folks are doing a fantastic job in improving our drilling efficiency and spud to spud time.
So the machines are working faster.
That gives an opportunity to enhance our results.
All that has got to be (inaudible) with what else is going on in the fields enable that to be evacuated in to the markets and between the Lancaster plant.
the expansion of White Cliffs the tie-ins with Texas Express.
We have got a lot of things going on in the field thats going to interrupt our production at some point and thats what we are trying to take into account.
Thats helpful.
Just one quick question or clarification on the full year guidance.
Al you did bump the upper end of the guidance by a couple million barrel.
You left the bottom end flat.
Can you just put that into context? If that is conservatism or any other thing that you are thinking about regarding the bottom end? I think it just goes back to what we have taken through the course of the year.
Fairly conservative view on ethane rejection.
Thats the reason that we have guided the way we have at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
I was just curios if you could provide an update on the monetizations that are potentially forthcoming.
Couple have been talked about as possibilities but anything that we should be on lookout for? Well if I can I will let Bob Gwin give you more color but I think of all the things we are working on the one that has got the most immediately associated with what you talked about earlier in Mozambique but as you can imagine I made the comment earlier.
We are very active managers of our portfolio.
So thats hardly the only thing we are looking at that at point in time so with that let me turn it over to Bob.
Sure.
The only thing I would add really beyond Mozambique of notice something I mentioned on the investor call back in February and that is Brazil.
Obviously we continue to work that.
It's a bit of a challenge because there is the unitization process or unitization's study underway that BP as the operator of the BM-C-32 block is negotiating but nonetheless we decided it was appropriate to move forward the potential monetization there that process is in a really early stages and the timing of completion is going to be the unknown because it is little bit complex due to the unitization and subsequent need for ANP approval and so we would be hopeful to get that done later in 2013 but it is hard for us to drive the timeline it is really just a matter of us proceeding kind of diligently to get that done.
We will continue to keep the market apprised as it gains little more shape.
Otherwise there's lots of things that don't rise to the level of mentioning at this point but as you've seen things we've done like our OCI deal we did the first quarter various and sundry smaller things are EOR deal that we did with [Lin] last year.
There is a variety of these types of things.
We continue work on.
We will continue to try to fine-tune the portfolio things that do not work quite well for us attractive assets but it might fit better in somebody else's portfolio and then we'll continue to focus our capital intention on the things that are highest points opportunity.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
With respect to the Mozambique situation you touched on reserve certification process.
Can you update us on where the discussions lie perhaps not on the detailed level obviously but just regarding the pricing dynamics of off take agreements and what we might expect to see and how we might expect that to play out? Sure.
We've got Scott Moore here with us who runs marketing globally through Anadarko.
And if I could Scott why don't you address that? I think we are excited by the interest in the market that we've seen in our Mozambique product.
It's a premium product that should deliver a premium price.
We do look primarily at oil indexation and the pricing which is well established with the high quality Asian buyers that we target for green field projects like this.
We look forward to working on those structures and we hope to be able to talk to you more about it later this year.
Joe as you might imagine given the advantages of geography and a lot of other things the buyer community for LNG coming out of Mozambique is pretty deep.
Okay.
There have been some I assume mention in the media that perhaps there is some linkage to natural gas prices or Henry Hub prices how is that going to influence the calculation or the pricing schemes? Yeah.
I think there are certain utility buyers in Easter Asia that are looking to try to move away from a completely oil-indexed contract.
We are looking at it in terms of what the effective price per Mcf or MMBtu is for us and how that gives us project economics we certainly today have not entered into any contracts that would incorporate that but we've listened to the buyers that they've talked about it.
And Scott please add anything you'd like.
I think key for us as we look at things that delivery comparable value and there are a number of ways that can be accomplished and we do try and reflect our buyers' concerns but.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I was just wondering if you could give us any more color on the timing of the Tronox potential settlement when you think that may occur and if there is any kind of change in what kind of financial impact that may have? Thanks.
Ross I wish I had a crystal ball and could give you an accurate prediction.
The reality is I don't have one of those or haven't found it in my closet yet.
We really don't know when this judge is going to come back.
In our most recent Q filing this week we reiterated our range of zero to $1.4 billion.
That's our best estimate.
We still think the case that we have is very strong and we think more likely than not that we will win and so therefore that's the construction of the range but the timing of when this judge will make a ruling is very difficult for us to give you any directional but I'm going to let Bobby Reeves try.
I think that's right.
Look back at our 10-Q we've not changed.
We believe it's more likely than not that we will prevail.
There is a potential loss range of zero to 1.4 billion based on our best estimates.
We still believe that evidence of the trial was that Kerr-McGee properly capitalized turnoffs when that was IPO'd and that Kerr-McGee wasnt responsible in any way for the financial struggles or bankruptcy of Tronox.
We believe that that was pointed out clearly in the trial.
We believe that a ruling from the Judge should prevail for us and give us the clarity thats right now an uncertainty on our company.
So we were looking forward to the ruling.
Your next question comes from the line of David Cameron with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
The big cash flow generation in the quarter in the balance sheet obviously there is some place there for Trunox or whatever but can you talk about what your plans are for that free cash flow that continues? Obviously you have some big projects but thinking dividend and any other thing you what to throw out there? Hi David it is Bob Gwin.
Obviously we are working to preserve the current strength of the balance sheet.
All we have is this uncertainty related to Tronox as we just discussed.
As we move forward and we are going to continue to reduce leverage to a degree we are obviously are focused on a stronger credit quality and on an appropriate credit quality for the structure of our global business our exploration business.
But as we mentioned a little bit previously we are going to revisit dividend policy as we go forward.
It doesnt take a lot of work to look at our future cash flow generating capability and the way that we have focused on monetizing assets and leveraging the use of other people's money in our development dollars.
That leads to some relatively strong cash generation over time which is the goal of our business model.
When we do that we will revisit the credit quality do some liability management and make sure the capital structure is optimized for our business models.
So its a work in progress but I think we stay essentially where we are until we get to the other side of the current uncertainty.
Dave this is Al.
I think given the way we have been able to use our cash flow pretty effectively and staying within that with CapEx as we have continued as Bob made reference to the fact of using third-party capital on a lot of our bigger mega project development.
Our ability in the future to continue to be even more cash efficient and capital efficient should lead us to a good place when we were able to make an announcement on the dividend payout policy.
All right thats helpful.
Then as I think about you have a bid portfolio in the U.S.
I imagine there are a lot of plays but you guys are chasing the one that popped up in the last month or so is the Northeast Colorado play.
Could you talk a little bit about what have out there and then anything else you want to give us as far what you are working on in the U.S.? David this is Chuck.
As we work our U.S.
onshore exploration program you may notice we are investing about $300 million a year in the oil plays.
That is roughly half a dozen of those located around the U.S.
and we are exploring and appraising in each one of those and we havent released any results.
We typically dont until we have a pretty good idea of what we could expect from the plays.
But I would say we have some very encouraging early results in several of those and we look forward them playing a bigger and more prominent role in our portfolio going forward.
Each offers the opportunity to substantially enhance our EBITDA per barrel and value proposition for you guys.
I think in Colorado as well as you probably understand David we have a very large mineral interest position right in the middle of what looks like to be a new play.
I might ask if I could just see if Chuck would want a comment just a little bit about our acreage position there.
Well we did have some press about the plays going on in Southeast Colorado on the arch in Mississippian play.
It is right in the middle of our land grant where we have mineral interest in every other section.
Our total acreage position there is approaching 800 000 acres net.
So its a very substantial position and we are well positioned to take advantage of the any successful industry we have on the arch.
All right and at this point in time are you waiting for us to prove it up or are you guys active out there around the arch.
Well the advantage of having perpetual mineral positions is you can let others prove up the play and we've been actively monitoring and gauging in some small farmhouse to encourage activity and what we have seen so far is very promising.
We have permitted wells in the area but we haven't yet drilled one and there is a lot of inbound interest on that play and so I feel fairly confident we'll see some good value realization in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi from Capital One Southcoast.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
I believe this question is probably for Chuck.
I noticed there was significant decline in the CapEx spend onshore while you maintained your growth and I think it was to the tune of maybe $300 million or so.
Just curious how much of that would you kind of say was associated with coming off of infrastructure spend on maybe projects you finished as opposed to just the efficiency improvements that you have across the board? Eliot great question.
It's sum of both.
We've actually had some really nice savings in our drilling program.
I mentioned earlier like in Wattenberg where we are saving money on the drilling because we are doing it a little quicker and we are also saving $350 000 on each completion but changing up our completion design and using slick-water type activities.
We also have completed a fair share of our midstream spend in the first quarter.
And although we still have some big projects yet to come online like Brasada and Lancaster and others in combination with our west position our midstream spend going forward is tailing off to some degree off the high spend of these big plants.
And once we get that in the rearview mirror we are back to sort of a normal run rate.
The combination of that and the timing of the continuation of the JVs that we have down in the Maverick is just subdued our capital in the first quarter but we are running 47 rigs in the U.S.
we are building 900 million of cryo and we are drilling a bunch of wells and successfully drilling a bunch of wells most of them horizontal.
The vast majority of them horizontal with large completions and that will keep our capital spend rate up through the rest of the year.
Eliot I know you are absolutely aware of this but just to make a further comment about it.
As you've seen us in the past with our midstream infrastructure we ultimately will find ourselves selling that to Western Gas and reinvesting that capital either in upstream or in other infrastructure so even though we've made some big capital commitments in the midstream we do sort of have our own way of looking at that and using Western Gas in that capacity and I think that's worked out very well for us.
To that end we sold an asset gathering in the Marcellus to Western Gas earlier this year through almost $500 million which brought cash back into Anadarko to reinvest in the E&amp;P operations so it's continuing and working well.
Great.
I appreciate that.
I didn't see in supported and pretty clearly so thank you for that.
Just a quick follow-up.
You touched upon this a little bit already with some of the onshore plays and just curious do you have any comments on maybe the prospective Powder River and what you got there and that's it for me.
Yes Eliot.
The Powder River we have a very large land position as you know over 350 000 net mineral acres up there and we've been active.
We've drilled probably in the order of 20 wells into the deeper section looking for oil plays.
That basin has proven to be very oil-prone particularly in the southern end of the basin and it's a deciding place to play because there is multiple horizons that have paid off.
We've been involved in Frontier Saskatchewan and in Niobrara exploration to-date and each one of those has some promise so we are actively moving those forward.
We're in appraisal mode in those areas so it's an exciting area for us and we are hoping we could put some size and mass around them so we can put our machine to work.
Excellent.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Heidbreder from Millennium.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you for the color.
Two questions.
First can you comment on the cost structure in the Eagleford like you did in the Wattenberg and any kind of trends in the all-in cost of bringing wells on line? The second question is the size of the Phobos structure.
I think John told some of the analysts that was about 8 000 acre structure but (inaudible) on his call there was 10 000 to 15 000 acre structure.
So I was just hoping you could clear that thing? I will take the first one.
This is Chuck.
the Eagleford is doing quite well.
We continue to drop for our drilling times down and we drilled a whole number of less than 10 day wells now.
So if you put everything in play and look at the completion cost we are now filling completing and equipping those wells in the order of $5.5 million to $6 million.
The EURs are north of 4.50.
So we have had some really strong economics.
On the OpEx side I think thats a great story where our cost structures continue to fall and we are operating the Eagleford in the order of $2 a barrel now.
That has been a great story for us.
We get tremendous margins with the oil production that we have and the gas plant liquids that we recover with very rich gas.
So the story is good out there.
The cost structure is good.
We are making a really nice return on those wells and I anticipate that will continue and maybe even improve once we get (inaudible) online where we can really stabilize the production and not have so many ups and downs as we are putting the infrastructure in place.
Once we get that deal stabilized I guess it would be really really nice gains in our production profile.
Regarding Phobos.
The structure is very very large.
It is a big four-way closure.
What we are talking about is what we think we have in the accumulation.
To our lowest known well we think we have got about 8 000 to 9 000 acres in that closure that potentially could be full of hydrocarbons.
So I dont know whether thats the difference between what they are saying and us.
The other is of course difference interpretations.
You have got different philosophy transforms that could give you a different structural interpretations.
So its a very very broad low release structure.
So it couldnt take much to change that.
But what we see is about 8 000 to 9 000 acres of four way closure to our lowest known oil.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Well my questions have been asked.
Thank you.
There appears to be no further questions.
All right.
Well I do want to one more time say thank you to everybody that was with us today.
Your management here could not be happier with the first quarter and I would one more time we think 2013 is a breakout year for this company and the balance of the year looks really exciting.
John? Thank you much and we will talk to you all later.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the Q2 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
John Colglazier.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
Also on our website we provided a comprehensive summary of our global activities in our quarterly operations report.
In a moment I'll turn the call over to Al Walker who will discuss the company's activity and second quarter results.
Al will be joined by our executive team who will be available to answer questions later in the call.
With that Al? Thanks John and good morning.
We're very pleased to discuss the results of yet another strong quarter and to update you on a number of recent developments.
Every aspect of our portfolio continues to deliver.
As you saw on the earnings release and can dig into further in the operations report during the second quarter we increased oil volumes from our U.S.
onshore assets by 20 000 barrels per day over the second quarter of last year.
We reached milestones at 4 high-impact short- to medium-term oil projects successfully drilled 5 more deepwater discoveries and again achieved excellent operating results while generating substantial adjusted free cash flow.
I want to begin by highlighting the continued outstanding performance in our U.S.
onshore assets including the Wattenberg Horizontal and Eagleford Shale programs.
Collectively these 2 programs generated more than 90 000 net barrels per day of liquid sales volume during the quarter compared to 63 000 barrels per day in the second quarter of 2012.
That's an impressive increase of more than 45% year-over-year.
It's important to note that as we continue to accelerate activity in these high-growth liquids programs we're very focused on safely driving operating efficiencies into every segment of our business.
These improvements are enhancing project returns and are discussed in detail in the quarterly operations report posted on our website.
As anticipated and previously communicated during the quarter we had steep growth in our Wattenberg Horizontal program that led to higher line pressures on the field as production outpaced processing capacity which temporarily shut-in approximately 1 300 low-rate legacy gas wells while maximizing growth from our horizontal program.
Volumes from these shut-in wells should be restored during the third quarter and we expect to add up to 25 000 barrels per day of additional production by year end as new compression and processing capacity comes online.
It's critically important to continue to expand our infrastructure and takeaway capacity for our growth areas as we've been doing over the years very successfully.
We made a lot of progress on this front during the quarter including the recent startup of our 200 million cubic feet per day Brasada natural gas processing plant in the Eagleford.
This facility and other Midstream projects which we and our affiliate Western Gas have underway are designed to ensure future takeaway capacity to keep pace with our production growth.
This has been central to our drilling and economic success in the Eagleford as takeaway has been an industry challenge that our company has done a great job managing.
Beyond the outstanding performance of our significant growth plays we've had some very strong early results with the Wolfcamp test in the Delaware Basin of West Texas.
We're accelerating drilling activity across our 600 000 gross acre position following encouraging results and the production rates from our 2 initial wells each demonstrating IPUs of more than 1 000 barrels per day with high cuts of oil and liquids.
This could become a very exciting and new growth area for us in future years if this play develops as the early results support.
As detailed in our ops report we've made significant progress in several of our large-scale international and deepwater oil projects during the quarter.
These sanction projects at the El Merk Lucius Heidelberg and TEN provide line-of-sight visibility to significant high-margin oil and cash flow growth in the near to intermediate term.
In addition the carried-interest agreements we've entered into at Lucius and Heidelberg have materially enhanced our projected rates of return for each of these developments while reducing our capital intensity.
On the exploration front the 5 new discoveries drilled during the quarter were pretty impressive by any means and our success there and optionality it provides our portfolio is equally impressive.
Anadarko continued to achieve industry-leading 70% success rate with our deepwater exploration and appraisal drilling so far in 2013.
These 3 discoveries announced in yesterday's press release Raptor Yucatan Espadarte along with Phobos and Orca previously announced are very meaningful and indicative of our ability to continue to add to our inventory through the drill bit.
For the remainder of the year we have planned a very active deepwater exploration and appraisal program and look forward to sharing those results in future earnings updates each quarter.
On the operating side our results continue to show significant earnings growth strong cash flow generation and an improving balance sheet all of which were consistent with the results we have guided investors to for some time.
Of note our net-debt-to-adjusted-capitalization ratio has improved to approximately 29% from 34% at the end of last year.
We're very proud of these results achieved during the second quarter including the sales volume growth through the first 6 months of the year.
Looking ahead to the balance of the year we've increased the midpoint of our annual sales volume guidance by 1 million barrels per BOE.
This increase in spite of a modest reduction in our full year U.S.
sales volumes expectations which were a result of the completion delay at Caesar/Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico are continuing to do the types of things we expect.
We believe that the well will be online by year end fully contributing to 2014 oil production volumes.
As we've stated previously we're focused on accelerating the conversion of our capital-efficient U.S.
onshore resources achieving peer-leading production growth per net debt-adjusted share and adding to that being an extremely attractive growth stock.
We want to actively manage our portfolio to optimize the resource inventory we have and reduce our capital intensity.
And we want to continue to deliver the exceptional exploration results which we have been achieving historically for higher future growth and optionality.
We believe by accomplishing all of these we will meet or exceed the objectives we communicated to you in February this year and we continue to believe that 2013 will be an exceptional year for Anadarko.
At this time our executive committee and I will be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Subash Chandra of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on Powder River Basin oil.
If you can -- more color on what you're seeing there.
Is it largely conventional? Do you see some shale-type repeatability? And my follow-up sadly is on Tronox if we can get to it.
This is Chuck Meloy.
I was just going to respond to the Powder River Basin oil program.
What we're seeing is some exciting exploration results as we move around and test 2 or 3 different prospect areas.
The zones that we're playing are the Shannon and the Frontier and we're also looking of course at the Niobrara and Mowry in the Powder River Basin.
And now this is a result of about I don't know 10 wells or so coming online.
And they look really good.
We're starting to see some good results.
We're putting plans of development together for 2 of the areas up in the Table Mountain and Mojave areas and those should be conducted next year.
And so the early returns look good.
It's good oil and real good cuts.
We're getting good prices for it and our program is just getting kicked into gear so I think you'll see some really good improvement in our drilling performance and things look like they'll be -- have good economics so...
Research Division</strong> Could you talk to maybe the well cost and the repeatability if you were to compare it? Obviously it's going to be different than Wattenberg or Eagleford but for contrast's sake.
Yes.
The well costs we've seen have been in the say $7 million to $9 million range.
And it's a little early yet to know the EURs.
But the rates have been good.
We don't have -- our interest position in these wells average like in the order of 50%.
And as they come on they've been coming on at fairly strong rates in the order of 500 to 600 barrels a day type of rates.
And what I anticipate those are exploration wells so we have to build roads and power and all that kind of thing to the original wells.
And as we get into manufacturing mode we can substantially cut that down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up is on I guess related to Tronox.
I guess early this month you guys have filed this idea Arch versus Verizon.
It seemed like it was favorably resolved for the defendants in this case and should reflect well on Tronox.
I was curious how similar you thought that case is to Tronox or how different.
This is Bobby Reeves.
We don't have anything new to report on Tronox.
The 10-Q that was filed late yesterday continues to have a very extensive description of this matter.
We're still confident in the merits of the case and we're anxious to get a ruling from Judge Gropper soon.
As for other cases that are decided that happens periodically and we'll certainly use those that are beneficial to us to the extent we can.
Your next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
In regards to the Permian I was hoping that we could get maybe a little bit more color on the 30-day rates there and then potentially the targeted zone in the Wolfcamp that you're drilling and any color on kind of initial liquids cuts on those wells.
Okay.
This is Chuck again.
The wells have been performing very well.
We're just now getting them on production.
We feel good about them because we have a lot of offset activity going on in the same interval which is -- we refer to it as the beta and various industry partners have different names for the Wolfcamp ventures out there but -- it's pretty exciting.
They're a good piece apart 15 miles along that line.
And we have a number of offsets in and around our acreage position and also have good rates and have a little more production time on them so they appear to be some pretty stout EURs based on the offsets.
And we're looking at these and we're excited enough about it that we're moving in additional rigs and will be delineating the entire area over the next few months and are getting more production data and start sizing this thing up.
But because we have offsets and there's quite a bit of well data in the area from other operators and then actually a little bit thinner with regard to the section we're feeling really good about this.
And Chuck our oil liquids cut is about 8% largely oil.
Yes it's mostly oil.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up there in terms of the CapEx plans.
Could you give us a little color on maybe how many rigs you're running or how would you think about this play from an acceleration perspective? Well we hope to get about 5 5 or 6 working in the Wolfcamp here in the next few months.
And the cool thing I think that we have is the efficiency that we've seen in the rest of our program allows us to do this inside of our original capital guidance.
And I think that's a great complement to our drilling and completions teams.
They've just done an outstanding job this year of really using our capital very efficiently and very constructively and we're taking advantage of the softness in the market for drilling rigs and completion services right now.
And so we're doing this inside our budget.
When we get into manufacturing mode we've said time and time again these guys can really drive down the cost.
And so it's a little early to size up what the actual economics of the play will look like but I think our actions probably speak louder than our words moving 5 rigs in the play 5 or 6 rigs in the play over time and pretty quickly on the yields with some really good initial rates.
This is Al.
I think I would think about this as a coming attraction for 2014 and beyond.
The stuff that we will do this year is really more the exploration/appraisal type of work.
And as we announced early next year our capital plans for '14 if we continue to see the types of things we are early on seeing in this play it could represent a fairly meaningful part of our CapEx next year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my last question just in regards to guidance.
So a slight downtick in gas price realizations for the back half of this year.
I was just curious is that being driven by any particular region or just any color on kind of the wider differentials? This is Scott Moore.
I would say that we're primarily seeing a little pricing pressure in Marcellus which is flowing back into realizations through our gas pricing.
Pipeline utilizations are quite high on the Tennessean transco systems but there are significant expansions coming into service in November which should help alleviate that situation.
Your next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with the Marcellus your Marcellus Shale production was up nicely sequentially.
Can you just update us on how your backlog and rig count has changed and what you attribute to productivity improvements versus backlog reduction? Brian this is Chuck again.
The production has been amazing.
We're 2 Bcf a day gross in our AMI area and we've exceeded 0.5 B a day now net.
And what we have is around 230 wells in backlog.
About 130 of those are waiting on completions and the remaining is waiting on mostly midstream-type activities or production hook-ups that type of thing.
And so we have a strong backlog.
They're all in the right spots right down the fairway so I think you'll see our production volumes continue to be strong.
And what we've learned in the Marcellus is much like we've learned in many other places is that these extended laterals and the right completion techniques for the type of reservoir the you're actually dealing with.
On a site-specific basis it's giving us just better and better EURs.
It's just a learning process.
We're starting to pay dividends.
And so we're just getting more efficient at it and better at it and we've learned from our prior activities.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then shifting to the Gulf of Mexico.
Could you put into context Yucatan relative to your Shenandoah Basin thesis what this means for both Coronado Shenandoah and then other exploration prospects you have in the area.
And then whether there's any change in prioritization of appraisal drilling either because partners in these discoveries want to kind of push things forward or because you guys do? Yes Brian.
This is Bob Daniels.
We're excited about the whole Shenandoah mini-basin.
We have the big discovery at Shenandoah.
Of course Coronado was announced earlier and the announcement here with Yucatan.
Everything is working out there from a reservoir standpoint.
We're looking for enhanced lower tertiary reservoir quality.
We're seeing pay in all of the things that we're drilling.
We are seeing a little bit of variability as we saw in the original Shenandoah discovery where we had a several hundred feet of pay in the original well and 1 000 feet of pay in the appraisal well.
So things -- we're learning as we go.
And what we're learning is that we really like this area and we anticipate that there will be more appraisal work going.
And we're moving ahead with whatever kind of planning we can for potential developments in the area.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And do you anticipate adding capital or shifting capital to that area for appraisal relative to your original plan? For this year probably not beyond -- and we always move capital around a little bit but we feel like we've got the activities pretty well set this year.
They're going to happen.
And a lot of it's driven by rigs when we can move rigs in and out.
So what we've put forward is pretty much what we thought we would have to do this year.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could ask you to give us an update on your disposal plans.
I guess Mozambique has been -- I guess obviously we've been expecting something there for quite some time now.
Maybe elaborate as to why your partners are ahead of you or not.
And perhaps an update also on Brazil and any plans for MLP monetization in terms of selling down your obviously your public interest there at some point.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Okay.
Thanks Doug.
I'll tell you what I'll take the first question and we'll have Bob Gwin address the other 2 because I think he can speak to it better than I can.
As it relates to where we are in Mozambique I think we continue to make progress and look forward to a day soon where we can talk more specifically about what we're going to do there.
I don't think at this point we feel like we're ahead or behind our partners.
Our partners that have announced the deal found something that satisfied their needs.
I think from our perspective we continue to look for something we feel like is optimal for ours and when we do we'll be looking quite aggressively to talk about it.
But we're not quite there yet Doug is the short answer.
I can't give you a lot of color around our partners' decision other than to say that it was not one that met our needs.
And I think with that I'll let Bob address the other 2.
Yes.
And just to follow up on Al's color on Mozambique I mean keep in mind that the partner that was selling is actually in the country and we're remaining.
And so certainly our level of analysis and diligence relative to staying in is a little bit different there.
On Brazil as we've discussed before we're trying to proceed with the sales process in advance of the formal unitization.
That work is ongoing both on the unitization front as well as the divestiture.
Our expectation is we should be able to put it in a place that would address the subsequent value redeterminations.
We're conducting additional drilling on the blocks today.
We're continuing to advance the value of the asset.
And we don't have anything to report on the sales front other than to tell you we continue to work on it and have an active process in place right now.
Research Division</strong> On the Midstream Bob you've got about I guess a $9 billion market cap right there with a 92% ownership.
Can you give any color as to what your thoughts are on whether and when you might consider selling some of that down? Sure.
We did the IPO in December of last year.
If we were to register additional shares during the 1-year period after the IPO we'd be working under an S-1 which is a little more complex of a process than an S-3 shelf registration.
The shelf registration we can do after we've been public for a year in December.
That doesn't preclude us from doing something in advance.
But frankly we're comfortable with the performance of WGP.
We certainly expect to sell down some of it over time both because of the effect it would have on being able to bring forward some of the value for Anadarko shareholders and as well as getting more liquidity out into the market for WGP to trade even better than it has with relatively limited liquidity.
It is kicking off some very significant distributions to Anadarko today.
It's a performing asset something that we keep a close eye on.
And at about $8 billion of value that's worth about $16 a share the Anadarko share price.
So this is something that is pretty significant to Anadarko even if it's unrealized or unrealized over time.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is maybe for Bob.
It's related to the Raptor discovery.
I guess we've been watching this one with some interest.
It's a relatively new area.
Can you help us understand whether Raptor would be commercial on a stand-alone basis given the absence of infrastructure? And maybe any plans you have toward acreage around that or just any color on the discovery generally and I'll leave it there.
Doug I'll give you as much information as I can but remember that it is kind of a new area.
We've got new information.
Our partners BHP and ourselves feel like we need to capitalize on that so I can't really give you a whole lot more than what's in the release.
We do like what we're seeing out there.
It's high-quality oil very good reservoirs.
And we do think there is potential for additional accumulation similar to it in the area and we just need to work that all into our analysis and decide what we want to do.
So beyond that I prefer not to talk about it at this point.
Your next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you're trying to say limited stuff on Raptor right now just kind of a quick follow-up on that.
I mean what are your next steps out there with the Raptor discovery? Well Scott we did work on an appraisal to that very quickly and then we're going to move the rig once we're done there.
We'll move the rig over to our Deep Nansen prospect take all that information that we have and then decide what we want to do both at Raptor and in the areas surrounding it for additional opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So did that sidetrack or appraisal test the same objective or is there a different objective you're looking at also there? It tested the same objective and some others that we saw that could have similar-type potential.
And we got good information out of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And moving back to the Permian real quick you gave a lot of good color.
Just a couple of quick questions on there.
Your acreage position you talked about 600 000 gross acres.
Is that just grossed up for any kind of royalty interest you own there or do you have a net position there excluding other work and interest partners? Yes we -- our interest is generally around 40% or 40% to 50% working interest.
It's around 350 000 net acres.
And the royalties vary on the 75% to 80% range net royalty interest range.
So that's -- I hope that answers your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that does it.
And then also on the Permian how much Bone Springs drilling have you done? Are you doing Bone Springs right now or is it just kind of focused on the Wolfcamp as far as your operated work? We're actually doing work in 3 different zones.
The Bone Springs and the Avalon have been the bulk of the work to date the Bone Springs in the south southern portion of our acreage and the Avalon on the northern portion.
And the Wolfcamp just happens to be right in the middle of them.
So the advantage that we have in the Wolfcamp that we haven't had historically when we started these things is the overprint of the infrastructure.
And the Bone Springs and Avalon have built a major infrastructure out there including the gas lines the well handling facilities the well lines the gas plant's takeaway capacity all that.
So we've been able to drill these 2 wells and put them online very quickly.
And so it's not going to be a long process to get to evaluation here.
So that's a huge advantage for us and something that we don't ordinarily have when we start a new play.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any strategies like as you go forward looking at the economics of Avalon Bone Springs and the Wolfcamp in terms of how you attack that if the Wolfcamp continues to look pretty good? Well I think the thing would be it's an additive play which means strong economics in the Bone Springs and the Avalon and both those plays are maturing.
We're more or less in manufacturing mode in the Avalon now.
So we'll keep working those.
They have attractive economics and they've done a great job with growing our oil production out there for the last few years.
Now we still have quite a bit of running room in the Avalon and to a lesser extent the Bone Springs.
So I would say the Wolfcamp at least at this time is an addition to the others.
Scott this is Al.
I'll add to that.
I wouldn't think of the Wolfcamp as pushing out either of the other 2 plays from a capital allocation perspective.
They all have very attractive oil and liquids-rich type of opportunities.
And they have the kind of wellhead margins that would fit on capital very well with allocation next year in particular for Wolfcamp if it does develop the way we're seeing the early results suggest.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the Wolfcamp being deeper I guess what I was trying to get to is is there any reason at all to drill the Wolfcamp first to hold the formations above it or is that not an issue for you guys.
Well the activity that we've done to date has been HBP-ing a great portion of the acreage.
And I think what you'll see is that we'll actually start doing multi-zone pads because the Wolfcamp appears to be fairly widespread and so we'll just -- we'll take advantage of all the intervals available to us on that pad.
Your next question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the Eagleford Wattenberg Marcellus and the impressive numbers you gave as far as time to drill in each one of those plays in your kind of operations release can you guys quantify what that's doing in terms of rates of return or increase in number of wells you anticipate drilling this year or per well cost savings? Just trying to get a handle on how to think about that from an economic perspective.
Obviously it's improving but...
Right.
I can give you a couple of data points so it may help you.
We did a study not long ago just to our Southern and Appalachian region and most of the drilling has been in Maverick Marcellus and East Texas.
And so it's a compilation of those 3.
We look back at how those wells were drilling in 2009 and '10 as compared to today.
And if we ran the program we have today with the cost we had back then it would have cost us an extra $2 billion.
So we saved $2 billion in a matter of 4 years on those programs.
And if you look at the program for the Southern region now it's less than $2 billion total.
So we added a year of capital to our program with the savings in our drilling completion program.
So it's been a stunning program.
And our drilling completion group like I said earlier has just done a fantastic job.
The other way you can look at it is if you go down into the Maverick Basin this year our original program we're probably going to drill in the order of 30 to 40 incremental wells for about the same amount of money in the Eagleford.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in the Wattenberg last quarter you guys had talked about kind of where you were on the learning curve with respect to spacing and interval identification well cost well design completion design.
Any kind of update you can give us more than sort of indicative updates of what's happening what you think the ultimate spacing is going to be ultimate well cost ultimate design or are we still progressing through that learning curve? Well Dave I think we're still progressing and we will be for several more years.
And this is a big field.
It has a large area and it's -- the GORs and the oil viscosity change throughout the field so we'll have to work on each area and come to some conclusions.
I can tell you we're continuing to do spacing test.
We're continuing to do lateral link test and completion designs.
And what we're seeing is through the course of that we've gone to principally slick-water frac-ing which has saved us about $300 000 a well.
So our well costs now are down in the low 4s.
Now that's drilling completed and equipped.
We still have some opportunity to reduce that further as we move forward.
And the spacing is -- it's a difficult problem to solve because you're looking at not only the distance between wells but also how you complete them.
So it's an optimization exercise.
And so what we may do is have a little wider spacing with bigger fracs or tighter spacing with smaller fracs.
And we're testing both of those extremes now to see which one actually delivers our best economics.
And it may be different between where you have higher GORs and lower GORs.
So all that's going to be going on for quite some time.
It's not going to be sort of one day we wake up and know it.
And as product prices change it will also vary.
So we have a lot of learning to do.
And the thing I'm excited about when we sat here last year and talked about this thing we were about 1/3 of the rate we are today.
It's tripled.
It's tripled in the course of the year.
Our horizontal production has tripled.
And this is good oil.
It sells for good price.
And we worked really hard to get a good takeaway.
And the problem we're seeing right now is we've got too much hydrocarbon in the field.
And the pressures are going up on the gathering lines and that type of thing which is just high-class problem that we'll sort out here in the next couple of quarters and be able to move a bunch of hydrocarbons.
And I think again our actions speak louder than words here.
We're up to 13 rigs and our plan really hasn't changed from the last quarter.
We just keep plugging away.
Your next question comes from John Malone of Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Yucatan for a moment.
Based on the data you've seen so far do you see potential for the kind of big bump in net pay from any subsequent appraisal that you saw in Shenandoah? It looks from your graph like there's down-dip potential.
Yes John.
Bob Daniels.
Of course we see additional potential out there.
You never know what's going to happen as you move away from the salt reservoir interface.
Whether you're going to have expansion down into the basin of course that's what the appraisals will be focused on.
So that's what we're going to continue to move forward.
We really liked what we learned from the Shenandoah area.
And we think there's applications both at Coronado and Yucatan for those learnings.
And so we're looking forward to getting out there and doing additional work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Wattenberg quickly with the line pressures.
If I heard correctly you said that you thought there was 25 000 BOE a day potential increase through the balance of the year.
If that's the case how much of that is new and how much of that is just restoration of the wells that are shut-in due to pressure issues? That's what's our expectation.
Now what we're doing John is we have about 140 million cubic feet of additional processing capacity in compression coming online between now and year end.
And then following that we'll have our Lancaster 300 million a day cryogenic plant coming on.
So the idea is to substantially lower the line pressures back to where they were several years ago so we'll be restoring in the order of 10 000 barrels a day.
And then the balance of the new production some of which is behind chokes right now.
And so if we get all this done and we're on a good pace to get it done we should have a really nice bump either late in the third quarter or in the fourth quarter.
And we're looking forward to that.
And John this Al.
I know you probably -- these have not gotten lost on you.
We're not changing our annual view of what we think the Wattenberg is going to produce.
In fact it's producing at just exactly the rate year-over-year that we indicated earlier this year.
I think in prior calls Chuck's talked about when you're in these large fields with these line pressures and the way in which startups occur with processing plants and the like that we just go through these typical plumbing issues.
It doesn't change our annual guidance.
And Chuck refers to them as growing pains.
And simply that's all it is.
I'm sure you've seen -- and I'm not saying anything to you that you didn't already know but I just think the fact is this field's actually doing exactly what we thought it would do.
And the growing pains that we went through in this quarter we've talked about in the past and they were expected.
Your next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the -- perhaps going back to Marcellus.
The -- I'm curious what's driving the outperformance on U.S.
natural gas.
It looks to me like it's the Marcellus.
And if that's a fair read could you give a -- could you talk a bit about the nature of what that outperformance is whether it's higher IPs or whether it's a lower decline so older vintage wells outperforming or maybe if I work down on the completion backlog you're just going to take a stab at decomposing that? Charles this is Chuck again.
You hit it right on the head.
It is the Marcellus.
It's performing remarkably actually.
And it's undoubtedly the best gas well we have in the U.S.
I think it's probably the -- that that's the case for the industry.
I think the reasoning that you mentioned is it higher IPs or lower decline rates and that type of thing it's all of the above.
The field is just performing remarkably well.
And what we're seeing is the ability to regularly complete wells at 10 million a day and they last for quite some time at these higher rates.
So we haven't seen the dramatic follow-up that we often see in some of these shales.
There's just a lot more reservoir capacity in the Marcellus than what we're accustomed to in the remainder of the shales.
And if you look forward we still have a lot of ground to cover.
And we got into this manufacturing mode so we can cut our cost and we can bring these wells on in pretty big lumpy -- in lumpy volumes.
And I anticipate that'll continue.
The offset to the Marcellus has been we're seeing declines in our CBM assets in our IHUB assets.
So those were -- that's where the declines are.
In the IHUB is where the -- I'm sorry the Marcellus is really great for us.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That might be -- I wrote it down here.
Chuck when you said too much hydrocarbons in the field there might be a lot of calls I'm on before we hear that again but that might be your case with Marcellus too.
The other question I had was on Mozambique and the Espadarte well.
The way I read that in your operations report it looked to me like possibly that was a big shift in making the -- in maybe revising up the size of the Golfinho/Atum complex.
Is that the right read? And is there anything -- if that is the case could that change your appetite or change your timeline for developing that Golfinho/Atum vis--vis the Prosperidade complex? Yes Charles it's Bob.
On the Espadarte and Golfinho/Atum resource range.
I think really what these things are doing is pulling the low end up giving us a lot more confidence.
We are going to go back in and redo the entire Golfinho/Atum complex with the additional drilling.
We have Espadarte now.
We've got Atum 3.
We're going to have a couple more appraisal wells in it to really delineate the field.
But what it's primarily doing is moving up the low end and giving us a lot more confidence in the low end.
And then the high end is going to stay about the same probably but we'll see given what we see in thickness variation and reservoir quality.
But we're real pleased with the well.
It was in an area that was not as clear on the seismic data and was very updip portion of it and it came in extremely well.
So we're pleased with that.
We're pleased with the Atum 3 results and things are moving ahead very well there.
Regarding Golfinho/Atum timing I'll let Jim Kleckner address that relative to Prosperidade.
This is Jim.
We're moving forward with a joint study with ENI to jointly develop Prosperidade.
Golfinho/Atum as Bob mentioned is in the appraisal phase.
And we anticipate working towards reserve certification towards the end of this year and into the first quarter.
So we already have reserve certification for Prosperidade and are working towards the combined solution for jointly developing MA 1 and 4 with a LNG Park onshore.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones.
With the Wolfcamp do you have any lease expirations that are material? John we have a -- we're in primary terms in a lot of leases out there but I wouldn't call any of them material.
It's just standard operating procedures.
Okay.
That's good.
With Raptor is this a situation where you'd be willing to reduce your exposure like you have with other plays in the Gulf? John I'd say that it's too early to call that right now.
We really need to know what we have there.
And so I think we're going to have to do some additional work and incorporate the most recent appraisal well into our thinking.
Okay.
Last one for me is on conventional optimization.
You're clearly getting more for the money as you've indicated in various plays.
How much -- or how important is completion design now versus where it was before in terms of your planning process or your well design process? And what type of efficiencies are you getting? Are you using less sand less fluid? Can you talk a little bit more about that? John it's a great question.
What we've seen -- I don't think it's any more or less important than it was just a few years ago.
What we're just doing is learning more and more about it.
And the keys to it have been how do we stimulate more of this rock.
And there's a lot of studies out there about the different types of fracs different types of hardware that you use in these horizontals.
And we've used some of all of it I guess as we've gone through these plays and learned about them.
And what we're really trying to do is set up a completion.
And we're trying to set up the well density as well as the completion process that maximizes the stimulated rock volume so these molecules do not have to travel very far in these very tight shales.
And so what we're doing is learning more and more about how to do that.
And we've used the science of microseismic production logging tracers you name it to get a clearer and clearer picture about how these reservoirs respond to stimulation through these fracs.
And they're not -- none of them are the same by any stretch of the imagination but there's a lot of lessons that we've learned from each that we've applied to the others.
And it helped us design these experiments.
So the efficiency that I see is if you look at Wattenberg our well costs have come down in the order of close to 30% since probably about this time last year.
We were in the mid-5s and now we're in the low 4s.
And that you see across the spectrum of the program.
So and frankly I think John that'll continue for a while.
The industry is really learning how to do this.
And it's a bit more of a manufacturing process and incremental gains as you go.
And as long as we're able to do these experiments and as new technology comes along we're going to continue to improve it.
Your next question comes from David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy.
A quick question on the Gulf of Mexico.
What production do you expect from Caesar/Tonga now? And what is the ramp of both the new well and any workovers? David this is Jim.
As Al mentioned we had some mechanical problems downhole and that caused a several-month delay on our fourth well.
So the target is to bring that well on towards the end of the year.
And these are extremely good wells.
We've got permeabilities in the range of 500 millidarcies and porosities of 26% 27%.
So they're high-volume wells that should come on at 15 000 barrels a day range.
So I think you can read through the volumes on that given we've got 1/3 working interest out there.
But anticipate some really good production increases as soon as we get the wells back on.
Okay.
And then just a detail on Lucius with the production handling agreement.
Will that flow in as a net against operating expense or marketing and gathering or other? Dave this is Colglazier.
That will come in as a contra-operating expense.
So it will go against OpEx.
Correct.
Your.
Next question comes from Brad Carpenter of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones for me.
You previously touched on the 800 000 net acre position in Southeast Colorado.
Just curious if you could offer us some additional color on that position.
I know you've been letting others prove up that play.
And also curious if you plan to take a more active role in proving up your position or you're still just letting others given your perpetual mineral position there.
This is Chuck again.
As you know we have about 800 000 of our land grant acreage through there.
It's a checkerboard position so we're offsetting every other section in the play.
So we let industry work through that and we're sitting by and making plans to be active in the event the play kicks off and is successful.
And we're well positioned.
We don't have a plan to get out and be aggressive right now because we don't need to.
Our lease is lasting forever.
And so we're in good spot.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just another quick one for me.
Given your large U.S.
onshore exploration program any other plays that you're excited about right now heading into the second half of the year? And potentially any other 2014 coming attraction that we should be looking towards? Well I think we've talked about most of them.
Powder River Basin is really starting to show some promise.
We're excited about the Shannon and the Frontier.
And then we're playing in the Nio and Mowry in the south end.
And the industry has had some good success in that area particularly with the Niobrara.
And Chesapeake's got a big program going so we're adjacent to them and the initial wells look really good.
So I think the Powder River Basin in general it's an oil basin we have a large land position there and it's well positioned.
So I think you'll see us get more and more active up there.
West Texas the type of exploration we're doing out there has been to the -- just evaluating the different horizons.
And Wolfcamp has come up and it shows a lot of promise.
We're also seeing a lot of offset activity in other areas -- I mean other intervals in West Texas.
So we'll be evaluating that.
There's different Wolfcamp ventures that are being drilled as well as some of the shallower plays.
So I think you'll see us -- our program expand in West Texas.
And then we have a few other ideas we've been kicking around and working that we're not ready to share with you.
Your next question comes from Bob Brackett Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Returning to Raptor.
Can you talk about reservoir quality whether cuttings or log porosity? Is there a sense that those Norphlet reservoirs are as good as they are on the shelf or up onshore? Yes Bob on Raptor again I can't give a whole lot of detail but the reservoir quality was excellent.
We're real pleased with what we saw there.
And the fluid quality was also excellent very high-quality oil.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-on which is at a higher level.
How is the Permian competing for capital for those 5 or 6 incremental rigs at least the Wolfcamp.
Relative to throwing an extra rig at Wattenberg or Eagleford is that an infrastructure or pace of activity constraint or is it just pure economics? It's mostly economics but there is an element that because we have considerable infrastructure in place with capacity available to us we can get them online quicker and get our oil production up.
So that's what we're planning on doing.
Right now with the tightness of the gathering system and that type of thing in Wattenberg we're not going to add rigs to Wattenberg until we get all that sorted out.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And the economics is that -- I mean it seems interesting that Wolfcamp where you're going in and you've got the additional CapEx and you're ramping that's better economics than some of your established resource plays? No it's just we're at a point where in each of the -- in Wattenberg and Eagleford we're at the rig counts that we want to be at given the infrastructure positions that we have.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And the infrastructure base...
Bob this is Al.
I think what Chuck is also talking about is we see at Wolfcamp the potential of adding another leg to the stool which could be real attractive as we think about '14 and beyond.
The early results there really do suggest something that could be quite big.
The 2 wells we've drilled are 15 miles apart and we see a lot of running room.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so you'll get those other assets to some sort of level where you got a decade or something of inventory and then you just keep them flattish? Well I think as we are able to add processing capability and takeaway capacity you could in the future see us increase our rigs.
But I think one of the things we've always been pretty mindful of is that if we can't push it through the existing infrastructure increasing the rig count doesn't really have real positive effect on the rate of return for the capital we're putting out.
So that is more the constraint at the end of the day than exercising more rigs to increase capacity where we really don't really have throughput and takeaway.
Your next question comes from Arun Jayaram of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Chuck I just wanted to see if you could elaborate on kind of the infrastructure projects at Wattenberg.
You talked about adding 140 million of compression plus Lancaster.
Does that ease the near-term bottlenecks or does that provide you running room in terms of as we think about 2014 of easing the line pressures for next year's growth? I think what you'll see is with the 140 million we have this year we'll start seeing the land pressures drop.
And we're not certain it'll get back to what they were used to be but they'll certainly drop and add some capacity.
And what I think you'll see when we do that is that these -- the old vertical wells that have logged off because of higher line pressure will start producing again and that will give us the boost.
And then when Lancaster comes online we've essentially unloaded the facility -- or the field for a while.
We already are evaluating additional expansions as we go on down the road.
So there's -- this is going to be a continual process of drilling with -- drilling development and infrastructure expansion.
We have 13 rigs working in the field and so we're going to continue to see a very significant ramp in the horizontal production.
And we're going to have to stay ahead of that and keep the room for it to come into the system.
Arun this is Al.
I think one thing I'd like to add to that is just today we take our ethane in particular into the Mid-Continent.
And with the expansions that Enterprise has underway we believe by getting those NGLs into the Gulf Coast to Mont Belvieu in addition to everything Chuck just mentioned the price realizations in the future will go up as well.
So it's volume as well as price discovery that should start working to our advantage later this year and into next year depending upon what your own views are about NGL and in particular ethane price recovery.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Al.
And just to clarify Al you mentioned that you're -- despite the sequential decline at Wattenberg in Q2 you're sticking with the full year guidance which is around 120 million.
Is that correct? We have not changed our full year view of Wattenberg.
We still feel that for the year it's going to do what we thought it would do for the year.
So nothing changed on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I just wanted to ask a little bit about -- in the ops release you talked a little bit about some downtime in the Gulf of Mexico in Q2 scheduled downtime.
And I just wanted to see if you could quantify the impact to Q2 and maybe the timing of that when that production comes back.
Yes this is Jim.
The downtime that we had were some operations on some of the pipelines and pigging that was occurring in addition to some downtime on wells through normal work-over in operations.
So I think we'll see that production start coming back up here in the third quarter and finish strong in the fourth quarter with the Caesar/Tonga well coming back online.
Research Division</strong> But you don't have a number of that impact? No.
And your last question is a follow-up from Subash Chandra of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if this question was asked already and I didn't understand the answer but I'll ask it again.
In the Permian the Wolfcamp do you see that sort of being enough to make the Permian a growth asset restore previous volumes make it a growth asset on a consistent sustainable basis? Or are we talking about shifting the product mix and a fairly flat production profile? Subash it's pretty early to know how big it could get.
But it really shows some nice promise with these early returns.
And in the event it lives up to that promise I think you'll see the Permian turn into one of our real strong growth assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So look to next year then.
And then I guess a final question for me is with all the free cash flow et cetera and previously you've talked I think somewhat cryptically about dividend stock buybacks or what you do with the free cash flow.
I was just curious when do we sort of talk to it? When do you feel comfortable in -- is it next calendar year to talk to what you do with free cash flows? And/or do we need sort of a resolution in Tronox before that happens or some sort of a development plan or FID for Mozambique? Subash it's Bob Gwin.
I mean you touched on some of the gain issues there.
Obviously cash flow is very strong.
We're generating free cash flow.
We've collected a lot of cash from the resolution of TPE.
We've continued to reduce our net leverage.
And you're right.
We've been a little cryptic maybe in some of our comments.
I don't mean to be -- to continue in that vein but we're looking at it.
We're considering it.
We've got a lot of places to put capital to work within our portfolio but with the cash position and the growth in our cash flow both currently and prospectively obviously we're considering ways to return cash to shareholders as well as a central part of that cash allocation strategy.
Subash this is Al.
Let me just add to Bob's comments by saying that I think we've made great strides in reducing the capital intensity of our business model and still being able to show strong sequential growth year-over-year on almost any measure.
I think as we look out we in the past have had some hesitation about the timing of the dividend increase simply because of some uncertainties around other issues that are unrelated.
I think as we look at those and as we gain increasing comfort with the capital intensity of our business model previously we might have waited until some of those uncertainties had passed.
I think we're continuing to consider whether or not that's a gating issue or not.
I do want to leave you with a strong impression though that we recognize that the current yield that our dividend payout creates that's not something that will remain static.
We believe over time we will increase the yield and the payout on our dividend.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Well for those of you that are on the call still or have been on the call throughout we are very pleased with this quarter very pleased that our efficiencies have shown the types of success again this quarter that they have been able to create resulting in extremely attractive earnings and cash flow quarter for us.
Balance sheet keeps getting better.
And Bob Daniels keeps finding ways to find more and more exploration success around the world.
And we're very pleased that we are one of those companies that can grow through the drill bit.
So thank you for being on the call this morning.
And good luck to everybody for the rest of the day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 Anadarko Petroleum Corporations Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host for today John Colglazier Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
We are glad you could join us today for Anadarkos third quarter 2013 conference call.
And before we begin I would like to introduce our newest member of Investor Relations team Jeremy Smith who recently moved over from our Corporate Development team.
Jeremy will take the place of Brian Cook who is rotated to another assignment within the company.
I would also like to remind you that todays presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
So we encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last nights earnings release.
And I hope you have had time to review the comprehensive details in our 10-Q our earnings release and the quarterly operations report which are all available on the website.
At this time I will turn the call over to Al Walker.
And following his prepared remarks we will open up the calls for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al?  Thanks John and good morning.
On this mornings call I would like to do several things.
First I would like to highlight the achievements in the quarter; second discuss what our U.S.
onshore organization has been accomplishing; and third update you on the recent portfolio management achievements.
For the quarter first we achieved record U.S.
onshore sales volumes which included a 25 000 barrel a day increase in liquids year-over-year while more than doubling our sales volume in the horizontal play in Wattenberg of the same period a year ago.
All of this led to a very exciting quarter as it relates to our initial results in the emerging Wolfcamp shale play.
Second our successful achievements this year include advancements of both the Lucius and El Merk facilities which are great examples of one of Anadarkos core competencies project management.
The exceptional performance continuing to ramp at the El Merk facilities and associated fields gives us confidence in delivering high margin oil growth of more than 35% from this project in 2014.
Moving to the U.S.
onshore sales volume growth over the last three years has been both exceptional self-funded.
Since 2010 our U.S.
organization has worked to achieve sales volumes a 190 000 BOE per day while improving our product mix.
We achieved this through directing capital the areas that enabled us to double oil volumes from 50 000 barrels a day to approximately 100 000 barrels a day.
During the same time period we achieved industry leading drilling and completion metric while lowering our per unit operating cost by 13% to just above $3 per BOE this year and firmly establishing a reputation as one of the lowest cost operators in the U.S.
Before discussing our portfolio of management progress I like to point out our continued 70% plus deep water exploration and praise the success rate which continues to differentiate Anadarko and create tremendous value.
As for our (indiscernible) portfolio in 2013 we have announced or closed monetizations totaling approximately $4 billion the hallmark transaction being the announced $2.64 billion all cash Mozambique sell down was expected to close in the next few months.
We have also consolidated positions and areas where we have debt and scale and can apply operating efficiencies to enhance returns.
For example we closed the small acquisition in the Moxa [ph] area of Wyoming where we have operations and then the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we built an even stronger position in the emerging Shenandoah Basin.
With Shenandoah Basin area youve heard us talk a lot about a very large new area about more than doubling our efforts there we have working interest in the Coronado discovery which increases our potential in the future.
We will also assume operatorship in the Coronado after the next appraisal well all of which gives us more control over what we think is a very exciting area.
Portfolio achievements include recently announced deals such as the Wattenberg Property Exchange.
This trade as youve heard from us adds tremendous value to the field by concentrating our operated acreage position and our liquids rich (indiscernible) of the field.
We are also retained all of the 21 000 fee mineral acres in the land grab and this will benefit not only ourselves but our trade partners accelerated activity we believe in the near future as well as each well drilled provides Anadarko with before tax present value of that $2.5 million with no capital investment.
This is a tremendous value pick-up for Anadarko.
We expect this trade to enable us to further improve our cost structure and enhance returns while leveraging infrastructure avoiding the cost of expansions to the North-East.
As you can see in the map it illustrates the key backbone elements of our infrastructure including oil natural gas compression and water distribution assets.
These provide greater economies of scale and lower cost as well as avoiding CapEx more than ever before.
As I mentioned we have more than doubled our sales volume from the Wattenberg Horizontal program over this time last year from 26 000 BOEs per day to 56 500 BOEs per day and we continue to generate rates of return in excess of a 100%.
This rapid expansion of the horizontal production has resulted in high line pressures limiting our near term ability to reach the overall productive capacities of the field.
The impacts for the unprecedented floods that occurred in September have temporarily compounded the issue forcing us to shed in vertical wells and delaying our ability to move heavy equipment necessary to complete the planned infrastructure expansions.
As we announced in October this is expected to impact our full year sales volumes by reducing the top-end of guidance by 2.5 million BOE.
While the storms in Colorado led to flooding of epic proportions it was matched by an equally impressive reaction to an engagement by our people.
I could not be prouder of the men and women who responded to the flooding.
Through their humanitarian efforts and strict adherence to environmental and safety practices our employees and contractors stepped up in a big way to help their communities and minimize any impacts.
Looking ahead we plan to utilize 13 rigs focused in our core areas of Wattenberg field and realize the benefit of the startups of the Lancaster plant and the Front Range pipeline early next year.
Were also encouraged by the progress of the U.S.
onshore exploration program and I particularly want to highlight the strong early results achieved in the Wolfcamp shale in the Delaware basin.
We successfully evaluated six wells they are more than 15 miles apart each having gross processed IP rates of between 1000 and 1600 BOE per day and just as important with a 70% percent oil cut.
The Wolfcamp formation is more than 1 500 feet thick across most of our 600 000 gross acres with multiple benches to test.
In case you are new to Anadarko this time last year we had no rigs running in the Wolfcamp.
Now with six rigs we are evaluating both the aerial and the vertical extent of this play.
By the time we hold our investor conference early next year we expect to be able to provide a resource range for the Wolfcamp and updated plans for other opportunities that are under evaluation.
From a financial perspective our balance sheet remains strong and which was most recently reflected on Moodys upgrade to a positive outlook.
Our net to adjusted capitalization ratio at 30% is right in the middle of our targeted range.
Should our sell down in Mozambique close is expected this net debt to cap metric should move to the lower end of our targeted debt range at that time.
Overall we are delivering growth in value through the portfolio as we advance our strategy on multiple fronts.
We are very pleased with the depth of our asset base and its ability to absorb the temporary weather-related impacts in the U.S.
and still remain within our previously provided full year guidance range for both sale volumes and capital.
You continue to see us carryout an active exploration program while focusing on value acceleration and resource conversion going forward.
And to that point as previously announced next year we planned to use a portion of net proceeds from the Mozambique transaction to bolster the short and intermediate term oil and liquids opportunities in the portfolio.
Our objective with this capital development will be to further acceleration cash flow growth with attractive wellhead margins.
And as you can see and expect we will continue evaluate other steps to return incremental value to our shareholders.
With that operator would you please open the line for questions? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
Al I was wondering if you could share with us if you are willing what the lateral links and number stages are at clich [ph] design is like for those of Delaware Basin and Wolfcamp wells?  Well I absolutely will be happy to probably let Chuck Meloy go into a little more detail but I think as you have heard from my prepared comments as well as you heard comments we have made we are very excited what could turn out to be the third leg of our liquids and oil capabilities onshore in the U.S.
But Chuck why dont you handle if you dont mind the questions specifically?  Yes Charles.
Right now we are in the I would call the lineation exploration type mode where we are evaluating the acreage position.
We have very large acreage position over 600 000.
And effectively we have drilled four sections out of those 600 000 positions.
So we are still delineating.
We really havent gone to manufacturing mode.
And while we are delineating what we are essentially doing is drilling laterals that are about 5 000 feet putting around 15 stages on each of them and that will give us an idea of the prospectivity of the area.
And so far we have very good success in each of those wells.
If you look at the operating report you can see the 30-day average for each of the wells and they are all I can say average around 750 which for these shorter laterals that dont have a whole lot of stages its a really good result and is indicative of the opportunity that we see out there.
So as we have got a little deeper into this and others have drilled in and around our acreage position we are getting more and more excited of this opportunity.
Got it.
And Chuck I think you may have just touched on something that Al mentioned in his prepared remarks that if you have done these six wells on just four sections presumably you have  you are not all in the same you have tried a few different benches in the Wolfcamp would that be correct?  In our  in the Delaware Basin particularly in our acreage we see four opportunities.
The nomenclatures are a little different from the Midland Basin so folks get confused but lets just say there is four benches and we work primarily on the second bench which they call the A in the Midland Basin and thats been particularly good to us.
And now we are trying the lower fourth bench in one of the wells and the early returns on that look really good as well.
Got it.
And then the one quick follow-up I was wondering if you guys could offer some commentary on the (indiscernible) wells on your operations update you said that you saw some hydrocarbon shows but a tight reservoir  but that you had some encouragement there and no wonder if there is anything you could add to that?  Yes Charles this is Bob.
We did like what we saw there.
Of course we didnt have a discovery but we drilled the two wells in the Canyon got an awful lot of information from both of those for very very large acreage position can both go particularly we found a very interesting thick sand package and at the location that we founded it was very deeply buried and so were now in the process of looking for where that sand package maybe in a traffic configuration with much less overburden so that we could expect much better reservoir quality and we anticipate further activity in Kenya in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just to clarify on the comments you made on the Wolfcamp you said that most of your well targeted the second bench youre drilling the fourth now off those six wells have all those tested the second bench at this point?  Yeah each of one of is going through the second bench or work.
Were testing the two different I think the important thing here is you know this section in the Delaware basin is around 1500 foo thick and so it was currently targeting three different four different sections as our prospectivity tested to.
So we have a lot of work to do were going to be testing the other two and were going to be testing the Earl extend [ph] and also looking at some other prospectivity that we see.
So were just not starting that work and you know I guess with the kind of things that we have done in the past at Wattenberg and Maverick and Marcellus you know this will show the early returns and we have a lot of neighbors also doing the same things were getting a lot of information.
And remind me on that acreage you all owned some of the mineral rights or all the mineral rights on this stuff and is there any HBP issues down to that fourth bench or can you basically develop it the way you want to versus being kind of you dont need to drill the deepest to hold all the stuff above it?  We have to maintain our leases but the whole bunch of it is held by production as well as we have done have some mineral rights and our net positions are around 330 000 acres out of the 600 000.
And then shifting a little bit to the guidance that youre all about there looks like volume metrics are pretty much in-line but it does you know appear a bit more gassy and it looks like some of it might be related to maybe you know timing of liftings in Algeria and can you talk if there is like you know an under lift that changes sometime in the first part of the year and just kind of address you know the more gassy nature that guidance at this point?  This Jim and let me just start with the ramp up that we have had with our El Merk Facility.
As Al mentioned were very excited about the progress made with El Merk and that we have brought on the first two oil trains in there and their performance marks that weve designed for.
We have four of the El Merk fields currently feeding this facility but were in the process of commissioning the last train which is the NGL train we will be doing that this quarter.
Recently were out celebrating the success of the contractors and the partners and the government official of this facility and it's up and running very well.
So as we move towards the end of the year in commissioning this final train we will be building inventory so it's really a timing of tanker liftings and we will have about 1.5 million barrels towards the end of the year.
Okay so should we expect a bigger lifting in early 2014 to make up for that?  Yeah.
We dont have our budget finalized yet I think that the full year benefit will get some ramped El Merk project.
We should see our volumes grow about 20 000 barrels a day year-over-year in Algeria.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo with TPH.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more clarity on your Marcellus drilling plans as we head into year-end and then moving into 2014 and how that may rank in terms of returns versus your liquids drilling?  What we have been doing on the Marcellus you know the thing has grown tremendously were pushing over 2 Bcf now from the JV area that we have and so our volumes have grown substantially but during that same time frame we have been solely reducing rig count to accommodate the oversupply gas up in that area and the markets and so we have gone from around nine rigs back a couple of years ago to three currently and we are probably headed down as we go into 2014 and until the gas supply situation balances there.
While we are drilling we are still getting in the order of 30% rate of returns and those are good economics but we actually have better economics when you look at some of the old plays that we are in.
And so as the opportunity presents itself we are typically moving capital out of the Marcellus and into the oilier plays.
Matt its Al.
If I could add to that I think for a company that has a lot of options where we can put capital at some point the Marcellus will be a place we come back to as market as they typically do over time rebalance and you have some equilibrium.
So well I think industry generally likes what we have seen happened in the Marcellus.
Today the rates of return that we can achieve do not allow us to spend a lot of capital there versus other places.
In fact given our marketing efforts to get the gas out and not being burdened by gathering in transportation fess that actually give us even less at the wellhead.
The rates of returns that we are achieving are about as good as I think industry can expect out of the dry gas portion of the play.
And my guess is you are going to continue to see sequential declines by industry there.
And certainly as you heard from Chuck we are not going to be running the rigs that we were running a few years ago by any means.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And the just a second question on kind of the Wattenberg following the recent asset swap I was just curious if you could provide a little bit of color in terms of some of the downspacing tests that you have been doing in the play? And then with each the asset transaction you have been able to execute on how that may ultimately affect some of the longer lateral wells you are drilling in 2014 and 2015 and how that may  that program may progress over time?  Hey Matt this is Chucky and I am happy to talk about this is the deciding opportunity for Anadarko.
Its very unusual that you could pull off the trade like this and Id like to congratulate our counterparties well because I think this is a huge value uplift for the field.
It concentrates our operations.
And what we can do with that is as the math that was in Als presentation you see we spend a lot of money and lot of time really building up the backbone infrastructure and the proportionate field that we (indiscernible) in the trade.
And so the real opportunity here is to leverage that backbone to use it more often and not have to extend it up to the Northeast to catch sections here and there.
And so this opportunity we are very concentrated position where we have all the necessary requisite infrastructure to execute on our program.
We can take an already very efficient machine manufacturing machine and even dial it up a little faster and at a lower cost.
We also avoid cost of that expansion into the Northeast section.
So the whole thing will work through our advantage.
It improves our economics.
We think it adds a couple of 100 wells to our inventory as well as we drill wells because we have larger concentration of mineral interest and working interest in the area.
What we drill will be at a higher working interest for the effort that we put out to drill wells.
We have 13 rigs in Wattenberg.
We will receive more and more of the benefit net to Anadarko.
Matt I think that when you think about the fact we can grow volumes reduce cost and avoid capital it really does give us quite the (indiscernible).
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And just my last question you guys have a very valuable royalty position in the Niobrara and around the Wattenberg area is that something that may ever be kind of broken out from the company and put into a separate vehicle just to kind of given what looks to be kind of an underappreciated valuation by the market?  Matt I think we probably have been as aggressive as anybody looking for ways on lot values.
So I dont want to say we would never do it but a wise person in the oil and gas business only one time there is one thing you never do and you never sell mineral interest.
And if there is a vehicle by which we could do something today that I havent seen I am certainly open to it and I am sure Bob Gwin our Chief Financial Officer has looked at a number of these things but I think when you look at the rates of return we are getting in the field and the way in which we manage our midstream business I am not sure that the mineral interest is getting off in the value equation here.
Pickering Holt</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Can you guys just talk about your oil growth in the U.S.
there has been some concerns at least from some of the clients I talked to about the potential to keep the trajectory up but I know there is a hiccup in the Wattenberg can you just talk about that going forward?  I will get Chuck get started on that and Ill have some comments as well.
Okay.
The oil volumes as you saw in the presentation that Al gave has grown 25% year-over-year in the U.S.
on-shore and thats being driven by the Maverick Eagle Ford assets as well as Wattenberg.
You know Wattenberg is particularly the horizontal program it has continued to deliver incredible growth year-over-year it's we have doubled the production and it's delivering a 100% rate of returns.
The issue I think that people see is the field performance the overall field performance and thats really best understood if you take a look at page four and five of the operating report you can see the oil volumes grew the oil and the NGL volumes.
We are rejecting ethane this year so this is oil and the propane plus [ph] grew 25% while our gas line were flat.
And so that the gas being flat is essentially just a temporary issue with regard to the systems full.
We cant jam anymore gas into it but whats happening is as were drilling these horizontal wells were getting better and better wells their yields are higher so if you just do the math on the ops report the gas is flat and the (indiscernible) are up 25% so these horizontal wells are really increasing the role and as we get the additional infrastructure like the one where GT (indiscernible) additional compression and Lancaster plant in service you will see that the gas capacity come up and within these great yields from the horizontal wells will deliver more and more.
We did have a setback the setback we were in the process of getting these facilities installed and online and you know the plug [ph] satisfactory a couple of months and were still feeling the impacts of it.
We saw 250 wells offline and were going back and reconstructing roads and paths and that type of thing but this will pass.
I mean this is all temporary the wells are doing fantastic and were seeing great results from our program and we continue to do field test to decide exactly what our full development plan is.
Were in the order of about a 10% through the development of Wattenberg.
So there is a lot of good things to come and you know on a well by well basis the most recent wells are some of the very best we have drilled so Im excited about how this thing is going and Im excited about the future and we got to get through this little bump and every now and then we throw a curve ball with the flood the diving guys up there have just done a fantastic job working their way through it and you know within few months we will be back on track and this thing will grow and as soon as we get the gas outlet the rest of it will come along with it.
They are going out ahead through this I think we may have people they are asking you questions I think it simply is not a reservoir issue it's just an evacuation and mid-stream issue for us.
So obviously Mother Nature didnt help us in any of this fall but Mother Nature side I think we understand how to handle these evacuation issues be able to get our yields up and be able to process at a greater capacity so that our drilling activity as I mentioned will go up next year with the rig count.
So again it's not a reservoir performance issue if that was the case I think that would be a bigger concern.
And just in the Rockies for a bit can you talk and I apologize Al I missed some of your opening comments but can you talk about the MOX acquisition and then nitpicking a little bit but you have another category for the rig count and the Rockies it shows three rigs.
Yeah we can talk (indiscernible) will add in for us that really gave us some operating efficiencies in an area that was dazzled with a lot of agreements.
So Chuck can go onto a little bit of detail there but it helps us in a lot of way operating efficiencies one and overtime youre going to see our ability to do some things now that we own it or so rather than having a partner in order to benefit of our own performance.
I think Al covered it's essentially a little bolt-on where and there was another operating field.
We managed to attract a deal with them.
Our expectation because we have a little better economies of scale.
We can substantially reduce the overall operating cost of the field and it analyzed a lot of locations that we are essentially landlocked because of the different agreements between parties and so all that gets wiped out.
Its the onshore position that we have the land grant-ins that we recover a mineral position the rights to access to those mineral positions.
So at the end of the day it will be a big opportunity to us and I think we will make a good return just by consolidating still reducing the cost and improving the performance of the base case.
And David just to add if I could one other thing the economies of scale here coupled with efficiencies that we enjoy we typically were standing out of non-operated wells.
So if a well was being proposed even with the mineral interest it isnt typically gets drilled at the same cost as we would drill it was substantially greater which really made it a very marginal play for us to go and put capital.
Well all that claims up we can actually see capital into the fast ways we couldnt do before.
This is Bob.
Well the only thing I would add is that we get to do it within our original capital guidance as well as the guys have done a good job on keeping capital down year-to-date.
And so we were able to achieve roughly $300 million in our acquisition (indiscernible) and not increase capital guidance which obviously is pretty important.
Okay thats great.
And then just have the third and final question the Paradox the other rig activity that we should pre-operate is that  should I think of that as Paradox in Southeast Colorado or can you guys give us any color on that? Am I on the right track anyway?  Its a combination of Paradox and a few others that we are working to do some additional exploration.
So we will give you some more color as we go along.
Okay thanks for all the color guys.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Thank you and thanks for taking my questions guys.
Al at the end of the prepared remarks you reiterated your intent to reinvest some of the Mozambique proceeds in the U.S.
plays and other initiatives.
And I was just wondering if you could take this tab in 2014 where the dells will be going primarily and kind of how you are juggling the upstream component with as you mentioned the other initiatives which I assume mean share repurchase potential or even dividend increases?  Yes Peter if I could I am going to be a little more (indiscernible).
What we are going to try to do is feed areas today where we can accelerate the drilling activity and the growth and certainly where we can that we are going to do that in the Eagleford and may reference to what we are going to do next year in the Wattenberg.
And I got early assessment as this Wolfcamp area is going to be something that if it continues to appraise what we have seen early and we have the infrastructure in place to be able to put capital there for that drilling wells and let them sitting waiting on pipeline connection.
I dont think any of us want a whole lot of wells WOPL.
So our hope is is that we can get the infrastructure in that part of West Texas to workforce in a way that a lot of that capital would go there.
So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we are going to try to direct that capital at places where we have we real attract wellhead margins and real attractive wellhead margins that are today 70% cut by oil in the Wolfcamp pretty attractive.
You know what we are looking at with both the Wattenberg and the Eagleford.
So those are the three areas you can expect that we will increase capital as we come out with our capital guidance next year.
They have some opportunities for intermediate oil in Gulf of Mexico.
We will continue to figure out how we might be able to get into that as well.
So as anything in our portfolio that we can in the short intermediate term increase our pre-tax cash flow and pre-tax cash flow per share those are very fairly important things as we look at not just in 14 but look beyond 14 into 15 and 16 to try to give us a trajectory over the next three years where we will direct a larger portion of our capital spend into that short and intermediate type of capital cycling.
Thanks Al.
Thats helpful.
And then my follow-up is just is there any update on the Brazil asset sale process and what about the potential for China as well and thats all I have? Thank you.
Hey Peter its Bob Gwin.
I will address Brazil first because there is really nothing that we have on China at this point.
From a Brazil standpoint we have continued our appraisal program you might have seen in the operations report we had two successful appraisal wells this year nonetheless it's still an asset that we would expect to divest but with the unitization discussions that are ongoing that obviously is very difficult.
We think unitization should make the asset more valuable overtime primarily from a PV standpoint as our northern block where ITAIPU discoveries would look to be unitized with (indiscernible) park but BP's operator is handling that with Petrobras and so it's unclear to us as to how long that process is going to take right now.
I think our sales process is somewhat dependent on and we continue to look for opportunities to accelerate the process relative to unitization but thats a difficult thing to do as you might imagine.
So in the interim and Bob Daniels may have a comment or two on what we have done with the appraisal program but in the interim we continue to execute the program and add value to the asset.
Yeah just very quickly Peter on the two wells that we have drilled the Wahoo-5 and the ITAIPU appraisal.
They are both very successful we Wahoo-5 had a 200 feet pay in it no water in the main objective gave us a real good handle on the different part of the field and the ITAIPU well was a fairly good step up to test the plank [ph] of the structure and it was very successful.
So you know good things coming out from drilling the wells were trying to minimize the amount of drilling that we have to do before we can move into real planning for how would you develop this and we think that we have got enough information to start that process.
So were moving forward as we have to do with the government but at the same time were looking at whats the best way to get value for this asset because it is a good asset.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
I guess following on one of the last questions as you think about the thought or the possibility of blustering your short and medium term opportunities as we think about the impact on production in the context some of your longer term goals that have been out there for quite some time?  Well I dont want to get ahead of giving you guidance next year or a year all on production or on capital basis.
Obviously we see opportunities where we think we can accelerate the EBITDA or pretax cash flow that should also imply that we think we can accelerate production a little bit.
As you probably can fully appreciate the activation cost for oil and liquids is greater than gas I think everybody has seen that over certainly the last five years and some of our industry peers have done a really good job of that turning of that spending from gas into an oil and liquids and others have done less so we didnt have to make the term we just reapplied capital to a part of our portfolio.
We see today that we have an opportunity with these net proceeds from the sale to do something that we think that will benefit our share price and improve the way in which our near term cash flow and even intermediate cash flows can be enhanced.
So with this additional capital for the first time were at least evaluating the idea that we might slightly outspend our cash flow with capital as we see the attractive ability to do that with these oil and liquids plays that we have made reference to.
Okay there was some comments made about Brazil but any update on any other monetization possibilities I think things like possible sale down of Shenandoah or sale of your Western Gas general partnership ventures that have been discussed I dont know if you have any thoughts or comments along some of those possibilities up in the next few quarters.
I mean we obviously are pretty focused on portfolio management.
We have executed over $30 billion worth of transaction in the last since like 2007 and 08.
We continue to look at the portfolio on ways to make it more efficient ways to bring longer cycle projects forward and so I think the track record speaks for itself.
We dont want to get out in front of ourselves identifying the particular opportunity so were able to withhold comment on things that haven't already been discussed.
The one caveat there is WGP in our holdings there.
We have about 200 million shares at WGP that means each dollar of WGP is worth about $0.40 of the Anadarko share price on a straight read through.
Those are those securities while marketable are not highly liquid today because were still under an S1 from a registration standpoint.
After the first year we will be in a position to file an S3 shelf registration statement to look at the sale of additional secondary shares.
And I think we have been fairly clear thats something we intend to do.
Now to what degree we will use that over time and pick our spots.
And one of our goals there of course is to get greater liquidity into the WGP trading so that those shares we will be able to trade in a more robust manner with the institution.
So its something thats out there something we will be dealing with in 2014 certainly but beyond that we are going to withhold comment on the other transactions that we are working on but you can expect us to continue to be active and focused on accelerating that longer term value and bring it forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Arun.
Al turning [ph] about your comments around bringing value forward as you think about 2014 capital program I just wanted to ask obviously you have the monetization proceeds in 14 do you  historically CapEx has equaled cash flow in Anadarko which has served you well but you can think about the program beyond 2014 could you see a scenario where you spend above your cash flow to bring forward that value? Just trying to understand is this more of a well as you take the Mozambique proceeds or could you see anything as you are doing this going forward?  Well I havent given 15 as much thought as I have given 14 from a capital spend perspective.
One of the things that the Mozambique transaction will prospectively allow us to have is they vary under-levered balance sheet with our net debt to cap approaching the bottom end of our range of 25% to 35%.
As we did to that point hopefully early next year we have various things that we could do to increase the leverage.
I think we believe the levered ROE is more attractive than an unlevered ROE.
So if we did get to the bottom end of that range and we saw attractive opportunities with the wellhad with margins that give us good rates of return allows to accelerate the EBITDAX and the EBITDAX grows absolutely on a per share basis.
I wouldnt see 14 as a potential isolation.
On the other hand ahead of 15 in terms of exactly what we need to do deferred growth I think some of that is going to be dependent upon the Wolfcamp and how well we are able to progress that here in the next six months or so.
So that the question mark will be if we find that the Wolfcamp looks like it has all the elements of growth that we have found attractive with the 70% oil cut and good infrastructure and good access to market I wouldnt be afraid about running cash flow again with CapEx if we are getting that kind of good rate of return improving our mix recognizing that that type of asset has a higher activation cost.
And we have the balance sheet in order to outrun cash flow and not put the balance sheet in jeopardy.
Al thats very helpful.
I got a question for Bob.
Bob I was wondering if you could walk us through your appraisal thoughts around the Shenandoah mini-basin? And secondly I just wanted to see if you could comment where the service industry is in terms of having the subsea plumbing wellheads etcetera in order to develop that today so just a question on Shenandoah mini-basin?  Hi Arun its Bob and we are very excited of the Shenandoah mini-basin of course.
We got three discoveries in it with Yucatan Coronado and the main Shenandoah discovery.
The appraisal program is all laid out.
We are going to start a Coronado well in late 2013 that we will continue on into 14 and then we have Shenandoah and Yucatan lined up to the first half spuds for appraisal work there.
So a lot of activity going forward but we still have a lot of appraisal work to do to actually get our arms around how big this resource could be and then potentially how it would be developed.
The fact that we will be the operator of two other fields after the next well at Coronado was going to be a good thing that will allow us to kind of stage things in if thats the best way to do it and develop things that are the quickest on and then start bringing others in.
As to the service industry we do think that these wells we can handle drilling the appraisal wells without any problem with the existing technologies and infrastructure thats out there and we will be doing that over the next several years.
And we are working with the service companies to make sure that there is equipment available so at the production phase of these very large fields that we anticipate will be in the not distant future but of course these are going to be deep water and high complex wells so that our development so thats going to take some time to get this on and were going to have to get the service industry involved to make sure that we have all the equipment necessary to safely produce these resources.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
In Mozambique can you give us your latest on the timing of key milestones beyond the Prosperidade development plan applications submission at the end of this year and when you think we will see LNG startup?  I think we probably best if we had Bob Daniels handle your question.
So why dont we start with Bob?  On the Mozambique activities were still in appraisal phase on a lot of this Prosperidade we clearly defined we have got certified reserves.
Golfinho/Atum were moving towards that position with the final appraisal work there that we did through the quarter and then we have got additional discoveries that were out appraising such as Orca as for (indiscernible) which turned out to be a good appraisal.
So there is an awful lot of activity still going on we have a block provide another year from an exploration standpoint and we like to define exactly what the resources that we have so thats kind of the focus from the exploration side is appraised to discoveries we have we may have a few more exploration wells actually track Persian [ph] wells in 2014 to just finalize all of that and make sure that we have got a good definition of what the total resources on Area-1 that are available to us and what will be the best to wind up for the development and with that I will let Jim talk about how the development is moving.
Yeah and from a key milestone standpoint as we advance the project towards 2018 first production day were starting to put all the necessary building blocks in place.
We have secured the land over 7000 hectares which is critical to onshore LNG project development and as Bob had mentioned we have an independent certified reserves for Prosperidade prospect.
We began executing all agreements with our partners and with the unitized field and the master depletion plant to go forward with the joint development of the field with ENI.
We have issued these feed contracts which are critical for both the offshore development and the onshore development and also which is a critical step completed the environment impact assessment and have that document reviewed and approved by the government.
On the ground in Mozambique were building operation centers and camps.
Were starting to hire and recruit local people and train them and start to integrate them into our workforce planning session.
So were doing many of the key milestones and made very good progress here in the last year moving towards that first production date in 2018.
So your view is that for the 2018 at the moment it still looks on track?  Yes.
And then following up on (indiscernible) question with regards to Shenandoah.
None of the operator of Shenandoah complex none of the operator of Coronado can you add any additional color with regards to resource potential there?  No at this time were not the operator until after the next well but at this time I dont think we would want there is still some activities were doing out there to consolidate our position in the basin and so we really dont want to get out ahead of ourselves on that kind of thing.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Most things have been asked but I was wondering did you mention what the formation or members were at the Wolfcamp that you targeted?  John we talked a little bit about how thick this thing is it's in the Delaware Basins about 1500 foot thick and were generally targeting with our initial thrust out there four different sections and in the Delaware Basin we call the (indiscernible) sections.
You know everybody has a different criteria.
Okay thats fine and then once for Bob Daniels on Shenandoah.
How were you able to finagle a higher working interest?  You know John when you get into partnerships like this especially when youve a three discovery complex and people have different interests in them.
Some people see the overall development differently.
And so we were able to pay a disproportionate amount of the next appraisal well at Coronado to pick up that extra 20%.
And we are very pleased to take that and also to take over the operatorship because we see a lot of synergies with Shenandoah and Coronado together.
And we also see the potential Coronado is very significant.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sullivan with (indiscernible).
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just had a quick question for Chuck Chuck you mentioned last quarter on the call in regards to your Wattenberg field that you guys are progressing on kind of feel the optimization.
And I know you are weighing things like narrower spacing and using smaller fracs in the economics of that versus you are spacing in bigger fracs? And I just wonder if you had an update on that? And how the kind of life of field costs for these wells figures into that calculation obviously you guys are going to do work-overs and second you are recovering costs and all the rest of it on that.
So just one kind of want to see if that plays into the calculation as well?  Yes James its a great question.
We continue to work it.
There is a lot of opportunity here.
And we are dealing with two benches in the Niobrara and the Codell sands.
So we are working through the process of doing field test at various spacing various lateral links various stage spacing cluster spacing all the multiple variables that go into these developments and we are continuing to give the information as we produce these wells.
And as we mentioned the production growth has been substantial.
So we are gathering that information.
Its too early that we feel to sort of hone in on one answer and it may very well be dependent upon the fluid type and where you are in the field and that type of that thing as to what the absolute right answer is.
So we are still working it and we are making good progress but it really takes some production feedback to know which ones sort of right.
Sure sure.
And I am sure that obviously you guys are impeded in that field a little bit in the second half of this year so but alright so next just a follow-up here is more of a kind of a multi-view [ph] but so we were taking maybe Al but obviously you guys have a lot of high margin production coming on in the next couple of years and the onshore U.S.
unconventional is one where you are refer and so on.
But I just wonder if you could comment on looking and this is really taking kind of a multi-year perspective but you have got big phases of production coming on internationally Mozambique eventually obviously but follow-on phases in Ghana and Algeria production will be continuing to grow in the next year.
I just wonder if you could comment around how you see Anadarkos cash margin evolving as you kind of layer on this new production? Is this something where you will be narrowing a little bit with international projects coming on I dont know exactly if you guys have estimates on all that yet but just see if you can speak generally on that?  James I think one of the things we are talking about this morning with respect to next year about some of the capital that we could be deploying to the short and intermediate components of our portfolio will actually grow our EBITDAX for cash margin both on a per barrel basis as well as on a share basis.
So thats clearly an objective.
If we just wanted to grow for the growth sake we would activate gas wells and bring them on and show a lot of growth but not a lot of wellhead margin.
And you could probably make an argument to do that if you were a company that had just a few options and one of which included just dry gas.
Fortunately we have lots of options and the best option for us is not to bring production growth up through natural gas but through our oil and liquids plays in the U.S.
Coupling that on the intermediate I think with some increased oil we can find ourselves producing through new facilities like Lucius and Heidelberg in the Gulf of Mexico as well as those things that we have maybe finding the capital for to accelerate some other areas of growth in the intermediate cycling of capital as oil.
And then when you look longer term youve got good flows out of Ghana we do believe field 10 coming on as well in 16 thats again very high margin wellhead production.
We still see some prospectivity and some additional things that we may be willing to look at in Algeria.
We found the track beyond the El Merk project.
And then when you think about just exactly what we are able to achieve by 18 with LNG first lifting again thats very high margin business albeit gas it's been cooled to a liquid state and sold at prices that are fairly substantial to U.S.
dry gas opportunity.
So I think through the balance through the decade were pretty encouraged that were not only going to be able to grow but were going to be able to grow very and improving cash margins low head margins and through very attractive rates of return.
Okay thats great and just since you mentioned I will just try to sneak one follow-on here which is that there was a discussion of kind of a large field (indiscernible) necessarily whether you guys potentially thinking about participation that or is that anywhere near your concession over there?  Im not exactly sure which fields youre referring to? I know Jim Kleckner and I were in Algeria in the Sahara and since last week and week before the celebrations around giving El Merk brought to conclusion.
The Energy Minister did make reference to some advancements they have been able to achieve and some fields that I believe are a 100% on less attract that maybe what youre referring to and I dont have a lot of information other than (indiscernible) is extremely size of that look potential of those skills would be to two Algerian oil production in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
I was just wondering if you could walkthrough kind of like current Wattenberg pipeline processing capacity and then just the expansions as you go into next year or you could follow offline if thats too detailed?  They dont give you the 30 000 essentially we have essentially we have roughly 450 000 150 million cubic feet of process and capacity and were going to expand it with the JT SKID in Wattenberg here toward the end of the year and the Lancaster will come online in early next year.
So we will have a substantial uplift and with that we will be able to you know pull the line pressures down and then all these wells can realize their full potential.
And thats really the upshot of it and you know with that we should see our whole production grow substantially.
Im trying to quantify and think about your total capacity like what type of uplift as you know drop some higher pressures down to more of a normal lower pressure with that compression and capacity can you give us a percentage or what would be the right way to think about it?  I think the way to think about it is that you know whats really supper [ph] down here is the vertical you know these are the older depleted wells and as this line pressure is just hammered and then so as the line pressure is reduced you will those things start flowing more.
You know it's hard to know how they will compete against an onslaught of new horizontal production.
In our expectations are this thing will realize it's potential we can see that once we get these facilities online.
So we dont have an exact number right now we will have to just evaluate it as we go along we will find other bottlenecks and that type of thing but the big one will be solved.
And that is we need more compression and more process in the capacity because youve to get bit of the gas to get the oil flowing.
You know youre very familiar with that sort of fundamental of physics and thats whats happening you know if you look forward we have also put in place all the racks the transportation agreements for NGL gas and all that.
We have handled the big issues and you know it's just a matter of time now for their online to I think the future is really bright.
Your next question comes from the line of David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
A lot of questions have already been asked but maybe one a little bit more specific one with respect to the Marcellus.
In the past you guys have highlighted the backlog of drill down completed wells there during Q&amp;A.
If you can give us maybe an update on that? And while you are reducing rig count does that backlog allow production to maintain its kind of flat level from here or continue to grow?  Well the backlog is around 200  just little more than 200 wells that are drilled and not yet on production.
So what we see happening is we will continue to complete those wells.
We will slowdown that backlog by reducing our rig count and our non-op partners are also slowing their activity down than they have been recently.
And so I think you see that backlog fall but that provides the opportunity to maintain and probably even grow our production in the near future these are such big wells and we can turn them on and we have the capacity to move the gas.
So our backlog should fall and the inventory of new wells would be less so some ample work in the right you mentioned to increase production.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And then one other one just on the Wattenberg you mentioned two perspective intervals Niobrara and Codell but within the Niobrara do you think of multiple intervals within that as some of your peers think of or how do you think about that from a development standpoint?  We have two different benches there is a third thats very nominal but there is two different Nio benches that we are going to see that we work on and we have wells at each and we are continuing to evaluate how close we have to place those wells along the laterals out to be and all that like we discussed earlier.
Okay I appreciate the clarification.
Thanks guys.
Thank you David.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Well we appreciate everyones attention and I know its a busy day for a lot of you.
So thank you and we look forward to seeing you soon.
Good luck.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today John Colglazier Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Well thanks Rob.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's year-end 2013 Conference Call.
Id like to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures and a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and included in last nights earnings release.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up for questions with Al and our executive management.
Al?  Good morning.
And Im proud to have the opportunity to recap with you this morning another strong year of operating results for Anadarko.
2013 represented another year of delivering exceptional year-over-year growth and unmatched optionality.
Our values based culture of safety and continuous improvement is the foundation of our success and Im pleased to announce our safety performance during the year was the best in our history.
Our capital efficient U.S.
onshore assets delivered 25% oil volume growth over the previous year driving double-digit production growth per net debt adjusted share.
Our high margin deepwater and international oil projects also reached major milestones highlighted by first oil at El Merk in Algeria.
We continued to be an industry leader in deepwater exploration with a 67% exploration and appraisal success rate in 2013 including incredible results in the Shenandoah Basin which are highlighted in our operations report and in the earnings release and we continue to be active portfolio managers in order to accelerate returns and value by demonstrating and announcing monetizations totaling almost $4.5 billion during the year.
Our U.S.
onshore growth plays were major contributors to our strong 2013 results as we increased sales volumes by about 64 000 barrel equivalents per day year-over-year representing a 12% increase.
Leading this impressive liquids-rich growth was the Wattenberg Horizontal program.
In addition to the fields full year results detailed in last nights news release and operations report Id like to highlight the 30% sequential growth in oil sales volumes achieved during the fourth quarter.
Weve also begun to realize the benefits of the acreage exchange that was announced in October and weve been able to accelerate the restoration of volumes impacted by the extreme September flooding.
By adding new facilities we are solving the line pressure challenges that previously constrained production growth in the field over the last year.
A new 100 million per day refrigeration facility was recently put in service and we expect to commission the 300 million a day Lancaster cryogenic plant and the 150 000 barrel per day Front Range NGL pipeline during the first quarter of this year.
We also achieved new production records in the liquids-rich Eagle Ford Shale the East Texas/North Louisiana Horizontal programs as well as other areas of focus for us.
Here sales volumes in particular for the Eagle Ford and the East Texas area were up 46% and 78% respectively year-over-year.
We look forward to sharing more details about our Wolfcamp shale evaluation in the Delaware Basin at our March Investor Conference.
The early results here though from this very liquids-rich play with good reservoir energy continue to look strong and it calls us to increase our operator rig count to seven in order to accelerate the delineation of over 600 000 gross acres.
In 2013 we again improved our efficiencies drilling 180 more wells than we originally anticipated in the U.S.
onshore.
We did this while staying within our original drilling budget and completions activities.
These gains reinforce our status as an industry leader in low cost operations and capital efficiency.
Taken together our ability to fund develop and produce onshore resources led Wood Mack to announce a December in a study to Anadarko was the top company in our industry for creating value from U.S.
onshore resources.
We are very proud of this recognition and believe its reflected the achievements we have made in every segment of our onshore business.
Turning to international and deepwater activity; in Algeria all three El Merk facilities are now up and running with a total net production now increasing to 30 000 barrels per day.
Later this year we anticipate initiating oil production from the 80 000 barrel a day Lucius facility in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
This project remains on-time and on-budget and again demonstrates our industry-leading success in project management.
In Mozambique we remain on-track for first cargos in 2018 and weve reached multiple non-binding Heads of Agreement for long-term LNG sales for about two-thirds of our first 5-million-tonne-per-annum train.
Our 67% deepwater exploration and appraisal success in 2013 continued to lead the industry.
We are and continued to believe this will be a differentiating factor for Anadarko and gives us portfolio optionality very few can match.
In 2013 we added more than a 0.5 billion barrels of proved reserves before the effects of price revisions at a cost of about $7.5 billion resulting in a very competitive funding and development costs of below $15 per BOE.
Even more significantly over the last five years our F&amp;D averaged less than $15 per BOE with a reserve replacement ratio of better than 150%.
Also during the last five years we had increased the sales volume liquids mix by a full 13% which makes these F&amp;D results even more impressive given the implicitly higher activation costs for this oilier and more liquids-rich product mix.
Our sales growth and sales volumes in reserve replacement were accomplished while also achieving exceptional free cash flow in 2013 which contributed to ending the year with $3.7 billion of cash on hand.
Additionally we expect the first quarter to also add to our cash position through the closing of the $2.64 billion sell down in Mozambique and the recently closed $580 million divestiture of our non-operated Pinedale/Jonah position.
In regards to Tronox weve made it clear that we strongly disagree with the courts Memorandum of Opinion and reserve all of our objections and rights to appeal.
However in accordance with accounting guidelines weve recorded a contingent liability of $850 million.
There is still a wide range of possible and ultimate outcomes and this accrual is based on the information known to us at this time.
So it could change materially as events unfold.
It also does not include any amounts for possible attorneys fees interest and other costs.
We will provide additional information in our 10-K which we expect to file later this month.
I am confident in our ability to manage through the current uncertainty by delivering excellent operating results again in 2014 while working aggressively to protect our stakeholders interest for the challenges this lawsuit presents.
I believe no other company of our size has consistently delivered the achievements Anadarko has over the last five years.
And Im convinced our best days are ahead of us as we continue to deliver sustained growth from identified projects for the foreseeable future with an ongoing focus on portfolio management.
Later this month we will make a recommendation to our Board for the 2014 Capital Program.
It is likely this proposed capital plan will again be aligned with anticipated cash flows.
We look forward to providing you an update on the capital plan for 2014 along with guidance for key performance metrics and longer term opportunities at our March 4 Investor Conference in Boston.
With that we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Brad Carpenter from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Its actually Dave Tameron.
Couple of questions; Al I dont know if you want to go there but youve talked about tax deductibility of Jonah  Dave its Bob Gwin.
As youd expect weve been working with our tax advisors to ensure that we receive any of the tax benefits towards we are entitled.
The situation is fairly complex.
And I think its fair to say we feel confident with what weve accrued in the quarter relative to the $850 million loss accrual for Tronox.
Going forward we are going to have to re-analyze the appropriate treatment if and when we make any future changes to the accrual but for now we feel confident in the treatment and believe that its certainly something that we are happy to put in the release.
And I think going forward you are going to see us continue to modify that and in the 10-K well have some additional disclosure providing the detail of how we get there.
Okay fair enough and then Ill ask one more and Ill let other people jump in Al Im trying to front run your conference here a little bit can you give us any parameters around how we should think about 2014 and I know youve talked about liquids growth and the focus Permian Niobrara and Eagle Ford but can you give us any more as far as any framework there?  David I can try a little bit I think you can anticipate as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we will deliver a plan that looks like its fairly sinked up to what we believe cash flow would be.
We are clearly like many people a little more oil and liquids focused with the allocation of capital or where we have better well head margins.
We also anticipate the type of reserve replacement and production growth per debt adjusted share that weve achieved historically can be achieved again in 2014 with this plan.
This plan probably will focus more of the capital towards things that increase EBITDAX in 2014 and 2015 and again it will be matched up to what we believe to be the anticipated cash flow that commodity markets give us.
Okay and then are you going to give us any  are you going to give us a 2015 2016 look at the Analyst Day?  Well give you  as you recall on prior years we give you a pretty good roll forward.
And that roll forward is that probably is best described by many as a cartoon but we will give you a good idea as what we think the prior years and weve given you forward-looking views how this particular plan will sink up with years that will follow.
So it wont be just a 2014 alone.
Okay thanks.
Ill let somebody else jump in and thanks for the color.
Yes thanks David.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning Al.
How are you?  Just like I promise you one of these years we are going to tell the operator before we get on that your last name is not has beaten up as it is than it is now.
Its way more exotic than it really is in real life so it just terrific we know that.
So a couple of questions Al if I may youve obviously got this huge backlog of opportunities that you build up through exploration and amongst other things where is your head-on in terms of portfolio high-grading Im thinking really more about operational constraints how much how many folks youve got to actually allocate or run projects and probably youve got more to see grades over than the share price youve given your credit for.
So how should we think about monetizing assets and how would you redeploy the cash if you did and I got a follow up please?  Okay well I think well continue in 2014 like we have in prior years look for the right opportunities to monetize assets in our portfolio like weve historically done and I think weve been pretty active as you know since 2006 when we put all three companies together we are probably as active at managing our portfolio and getting the right mix of properties that can be optimized with anybody.
As we think about it in the future when we have better clarity around Tronox well be able to probably best address how we are going to use the cash that is currently been built.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks it was $3.7 billion.
Weve closed the non-op sale in Jonah Pinedale and probably without any concerns at this point we expect that during the quarter just sell down or close the sell down in Mozambique adding to that cash position.
Once we have that clarity in Tronox I think you can anticipate we will at that time be able to be in a position to provide greater clarity than I can this morning exactly how we would use that cash.
Okay given the dry hole in China does that change how China fits in the portfolio?  From an exploration standpoint its probably best for me to let Bob address that.
Id say from a macro perspective I think you probably let many people know that we continue to look at whether or not that would fit from a 30 000 foot or global view but from an exploration standpoint Ill let Bob address that.
Yes Doug you are aware of the block that we had there 4311 and the format that we did on that that gave us a fully carried well.
We had a very good looking prospect that we wanted to test.
Its about 60 000 acre four-way closure amplitude is A B well all that things that you would like.
And yet we laid-off half of it to minimize our risk and to get our full carry on it and it turned out that was the right thing to do.
And that the reason we had the great amplitudes and the compartmental structure everything else was because it had CO2 in it.
And that does put a damper on the assessment of the block the petroleum system in the block.
And so as we look forward we did take a MPLH write-down on the block at the end of the year that was rolled through.
Again thats a non-cash item and we didnt have any cash in the well.
And we managed our risk and we got some really really good information to tell this was probably isnt where we want to spend additional dollars on exploration.
So now let me turn it back to anybody else Douglas okay thats it.
My follow-up if I may real quick on Tronox.
Is there any need to push the bond against potential liabilities even though you  you booked 850 do you need to put a bond against should we think of any interest charges and I leave with that thanks?  Well that was a fair question Doug.
And I think one of those sort of coming attractions its hard for us to answer today.
If we are required to we feel fairly confident that the work weve done in advance by Bob Gwin and his staff and most importantly Al Richey have us well positioned there.
But I think any further commentary on that I might ask Bobby Reeves to address.
Hi good morning Doug.
Just to reiterate what we have right now procedurally is simply a memorandum of opinion after trial its not a judgment its not a final decision by the judge.
We are still going through a process of the calculation of damages.
As Al said we disagree with the judges opinion on findings of liability and even his surmising as to the range of calculation of damages.
But we have another couple of layers of briefing and then likely a hearing will be requested by one of the parties here and we would not see a judgment issued until some time after that.
And again remember that the Supreme Court the U.S.
Supreme Court has a pending case called Executive Benefits which could determine whether or not this judge even has the power to issue a final judgment in this matter.
So there is still some uncertainty as to when a final judgment would be entered as you can imagine we disagree with the judge as to the possible level of a judgment.
So to speculate if the bonding now is premature but certainly there is no bonding necessary at this point.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Doug.
Your next question comes from the line of from Arun Jayaram from Crdit Suisse.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Al looks like you are making some good progress regarding a gas sales agreement in Mozambique.
I was wondering Al if you could walk us through some of the key milestones that you think APC needs to achieve in 2014 to ensure for sales of gasoline in 2018 and specifically I just wanted to ask you on project financing how much of the volumes do you need to have committed before you think you could get the project financing?  Well I think there is a several part question to your  a several part answer to your question rather let me  Ill try address some of that to Scott Moore who runs Global Marketing for us well as well.
And then I think on the project financing its probably the best that Bob Gwin answer that part of it.
We are pleased with the progress we are making on the off-take agreements.
We believe that the types of things weve entered into currently in the Heads of Agreements are actually going to lead to real attractive prices for us as well as for our partners.
And the remaining amount of gas that we have left to put under an agreement is not that material and we feel very comfortable of our ability to reach the types of volumes that are going to be required for our contribution of those first two trains.
But if I can Im going to have Scott give you just a little more color around that way in which we are approaching the mix of contract the type of contract and the things that we are looking for in that process.
LLC</strong> I think we are very pleased as Al said with the interest weve seen by the buying community in the market they are well aware of the world class resource size the geographic diversity so very pleased with that.
Weve started out with a benchmark of working on traditional oil indexed station and we look at other structures that would deliver comparable value and then very pleased with what weve seen.
From a project financing standpoint you work on a parallel path.
So as Scott and his team continue work with the premium buyers we are obviously talking to the various export credit agencies and other lenders obviously you need a substantial majority of your off-take contractually spoken for and the creditworthiness and the strength of those buyers as material so you have to have portfolio contracts that are attractive to the project finance community.
We still believe that we will be looking around 60% to two-thirds project financing here and we believe thats achievable as we add more of these HOAs overtime and I think the parallel path is working well for us so these things are to come together essentially at the same time.
Just real quickly would you look for agreements for two-trains before starting construction or would you move forward if you had enough for one-train alone?  Arun let me do this I think thats a very good question I think you probably have known Jim Kleckner who runs International Deepwater Development for us and he is the most senior person involved in the Mozambique development.
So Im going to ask if you would mind to address your question.
Good morning Arun.
Yes the anticipated development plan is a two-train which would be a total of 10 tonne per annum volume and it would require full marketing of the LNG before the development of that train.
We are currently working with the government for putting in place necessary decree law and enabling language to advance that but everything weve done this year and then in the past year has moved towards getting first sales in 2018 including certification of reserves securing the lands to construct the Afungi LNG Park and everything else is advancing very well.
Weve completed the environmental impact assessment and we are in the process of submitting that to the government for their approval.
Okay thats helpful.
Just one clarification Al on Tronox; in the January 2013 release you guys talked about a range from 850 million to 1.8 billion in yesterdays press release youve highlighted a wider range can you just comment on that and also the press release included some language on potential settlement can you comment if youve engaged with the plaintiffs' on settlement there are some color in the press release on settlement? Sure understandable questions Arun.
The settlement we made with our brief and claim are somewhat separate and apart from the way in which we reported what we did yesterday which is really a function of accounting convention.
While somewhat have similar issues I would highlight for you that what weve reported in our press release really is driven by the accounting conviction that we have to report under whereas the other is a legal matter that were required by the court to respond to even though we may or may not agree with the Memorandum of Opinion we were required to respond.
So I would highlight there is a little bit of a difference there and I think if you dont mind them all I will let Bobby Reeves give you some additional color around that as well.
Yes good morning Arun.
Well the earnings release that was issued last night gives an accrual loss disclosure and I urge you to really go back and read the disclosure very well.
Because of the accounting guidelines we have to book to the low end of our range that we thought was the estimated probable loss and that was 850 million to 5.15 billion.
Thats looking at the ultimate outcome of this case based on what we know today through all appeals process.
What weve filed back in January was what we believe the judge would do given his findings on liability so far.
It was a piece that we believe is the appropriate measure of damages given what he found as to liability.
We dont agree with that.
But we have to estimate a probable loss at this point.
Again we disagree with the courts conclusions and were going to continue to advocate for what we believe are the appropriate positions.
As for settlement we really dont have anything to discuss around settlement.
Weve always stated that wed be willing to seek resolution on this matter in order to reduce uncertainty for our stakeholders but that simply hasnt been achievable to this point.
All right thank you very much for these answers.
And your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
David? LLC</strong> I muted sorry about that? Thanks guys.
I hate it when that happens to me.
LLC</strong> No I said some very very smart things when all those muted to nobody will ever hear them.
As you align your interest and cash flow and CapEx one of the questions that come up maybe with investors is how does your portfolio plan change given the Tronox potential future and whats your operating plans would be for 2014 and 2015? Well David I will say this that if we were not dealing with Tronox I want to say Tronox certainly exist and we were able to close on the sell down on Mozambique and we have the cash positions as you know what today being added to.
Given the results chart we are seeing in the Wolfcamp Play and the Delaware Basin I think we probably will be more encouraged than we are today that might take a hard look at exceeding our cash flow with our capital spend to accelerate value there as a good use of that cash.
That would be the only thing I can tell you that would be is materially different in a poster or non-existent Tronox.
We do think what we are seeing in that particular play as youve seen us in yesterdays ops report as well as in the press release highlight for the fact that weve now got seven rigs very actively there appraising what we have seen.
And if we had the ability that not worry about needing to see clarity around Tronox before we decided what to do with that cash my guess is that would be at the top of our hit rate before we put it and Im going to ask Chuck just to take a minute and expand on that if he would.
Yes David were going to talk extensively about 2014/2015 program during the Investor Conference Day and were excited about a lot of things we are going on and I hope you can see in our operating results.
As you look to the operations report you can see that weve essentially doubled the whole volumes over the last four years and thats indicative of where were putting our money thats what we plan to do where opportunity rich in those areas and now as the company source through Tronox and what our available cash flows are we will make some decisions but I think its pretty clear that were going to put our money.
We are the highest low end margins or when we get to the most banks for a buck and right now thats primarily in the oil place and we are lucky to have the tri-factor down in the Eagleford West Texas Delaware Basin and Wattenberg.
LLC</strong> And Chuck can you give a little bit of details around kind of the just the liquids split from your ops report how much of that is oil and NGLs as the percentage I just wanted to.
Well if you look at the total volumes 365 000 barrels a day of liquids about three quarters of which will LLC</strong> Sorry just Delaware Basin I should have been more specific.
You had a 30-day rate on your Wolfcamp results and yes like our team but then you also had percent of liquid I just wondered if you could split that percent of liquids into oil and NGLs? Yeah its about 70% oil and 20% NGLs and 10% gas.
So they are heavy liquids.
And David this is Al.
As I pointed out this is black oil its not gas condensate because sometime people I know you dont but a lot of people will confuse it too here we are dealing with a very rich NGL stream plus a good and attractive black oil as well.
LLC</strong> Yes thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade from Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Excuse me I have the same thing Id started speaking before my line was open.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had two questions; first on NGLs in the quarter you guys had a nice beat not only volumes relative to your guidance but also on realizations and I know the overall picture is improving on the Midstream side there but Im wondering should we read into that to your fourth quarter results to say that things are going to get better sooner and I know you mentioned some of this with the refrigeration plant and the Lancaster Plant in the Front Range line but we can start to see the same realization starting in Q1 of 2014 you think? Yes Charles I think the best way for us to try to address your question is to give you sort of a higher 30 000 foot view of how we are looking at in marketing our hydrocarbon and may have Scott Moore do that and I think at the asset level Chucks best position to respond at that with a little more granularity there.
So if I can Scott why dont we address the way in which were trying to approach our hydrocarbon marketing? Id say a couple things; first of all weve had some relative strength in NGL pricing in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter its a great demand nothing like cold weather to really improve the product pricing relative to the highs youre seeing that.
We of course always try to make sure we have sufficient transportation and fractionation capacity related to our assets so that we get Gulf Coast waterborne kind of pricing for NGL products and then its continued to be successful.
And Charles this is Chuck.
In other way were looking at the NGLs because of our investment in these oil plays and the associated gas that come along with them we wont produce them it often times as very how BTU value and in those BTUs or a lot of propane or butanes and in even heavier that give us some really nice pricing relation to WTI.
And at the same time we see a considerable amount of ethane rejection particularly in the Rockies and so we have that opportunity to accelerate our volumes that we record with if we do ethane recovery but anticipation is that still going to be a top row in 2014 and maybe even into 2015.
So what youll see is an increasing levels of the heavier NGLs book to our account because thats where our investments are going and with them and the markets that currently exists were getting good value for them.
We continue to invest in plans that recover the maximum amount of those products so we get that value and Scott and his team have done a great job of finding these markets and those particular products they have a high demand in todays world and we have the ability as Scott mentioned to take a sort of wellhead to pure product and that has given us a lot of advantage in some good realizations.
Got it.
Charles if I can just add to that.
One of the things Ive been very very happy with is the way in which I think doing exceptional job of merging [ph] midstream and upstream.
So that we dont drill wells and we dont have and sitting captive way on a pipeline connection or we dont have a market for the gas in order to produce the liquids.
So that takes tremendous effort of coordination between midstream marketing and upstream and I think if you look at the wells we drill and how quickly turn the cash flow for the top unless we got to be pretty down close to the top of list of any company thats able to do that given particularly given the volumes that we move through.
Great Al and then it looks like its going to be another strong pricing quarter Q1 but Chuck this maybe appropriate for you and Im not sure if you guys have already talk about it but mostly you guys have done it East Texas and North Louisiana drilling some  have some horizontal wells going to north or what would be considered kind of the traditional ancillaries.
So like Marion County and [indiscernible] county is there anything you can offer about what you guys are doing up there or is that something we should wait for the Analyst Day? Some of that points to the Analyst Day but the thing that that were trying to do and with a lot of our exploration program part of which you are referring to is continued to look around the country and take ideas that weve seen with our current programs and see where else we can apply and thats one area that were working around to just see if there is some good value in those wells.
Weve build a few up there and we have other areas in the U.S.
in the Rockies and West Texas and South Texas that were taking tracks and trying to find a next big oil play that make a difference to our company.
Okay great.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just couple of quick ones from me; what was your after tax PV on your reserves at year end? John [indiscernible] pleasure thatll be coming out on our 10-K in a few weeks.
Okay thats fine.
What was the negative $40 million barrels non-price related revisions that you highlighted in the slides today? This is John again.
John there is not really one area to point to on that and I dont really know worth more going down into and further than that.
Okay.
Wattenberg youve been running about 93 horizontals less couple of quarters is that going to be a good run rate going forward and are you also seeing anymore completion efficiencies not drilling efficiencies but completion efficiencies? John this is Chuck.
93 is a good number for right now I hope were able to accelerate with time with additional efficiencies not only in our drilling but in completions.
The thing that we continued to do is there are so many wells to drill out there and its such an expansive opportunity.
Were doing a lot experimentation making sure that we absolutely have a good handle on the well industry that we need in the completion time so we need for the areas that were developing and they are very quite bit because Wattenberg as you know as a basin that has quite a bit of variability with regard to fluid types and GORs and all kind of things and we have great level of experimentation going on and I think once we get through with that you and we have the cash flow to do you will see us accelerate now thats next year the following year that we can really step-on the accelerator and get it done.
Okay thanks.
Last one for me is on the Eagleford; third quarter or fourth quarter you had a ramp in spending was that the compression or what was it?  Well most of the investments that we have out there associate with drilling and you see the two that they if you recall John the carry that we had going into the Eagleford expired during the middle to late third quarter.
Thats fine got it.
Okay thanks thats it.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from line of John Malone from Mizuho Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Just digging a little bit deeper out on the Mozambique I know you are going to get deal specific can you talk a little bit more about how you view pricing and you sort of touched on that but as oil linked processing to be the goal or do you see sort of can we have pricing playing a role in the calculation? The good news there is John this is Al is that because were not a traditional or historical producer of LNG and we dont have contracts with traditional buyers.
Our ability to kind of find the right mix of contracts here is not burdened by historical relationship.
So well I know you know this and most people do for years most challenging moved under oil linked contracts but the contracts weve been looking at whether they are hybrid or oil linked it get us to the same price essentially whether they are high-grade oil link again its sort of same price essentially at the wellhead and so therefore that flexibility has really inured our benefit as weve been able to collect but we believe these are all very attractive off take agreements with third parties.
I will ask Scott more dig into that a little bit more with you just simply because I think in the hybrid market because again were not a historical seller to foundational buyers under just strictly oiling contracts this have a real benefit to us in the marketing process.
Id just add to what Al said that we started out with a benchmark for traditional index values and if we look at alternative steps such as hybrid structures we want to make sure that they delivers similar value to the project.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks for that.
Just building on the instruction earlier about the Wattenberg if you look at your peers if you want lot more an extended reach laterals these days and since you blocked up so much anchors with the Noble Corp is that something you will be looking at more and talked about experimentation but as extended laterals are going to be a part of that? Yes no doubt.
The way we go about this is we look at our land grid and the ability to execute on these programs and we do or we think will add the most value for the particular location and in some instance is going to be shorter laterals or in some instance will be very longer spring laterals and its a lot to do more with land grid.
We see comparable values for dollar invested whether they short or long.
So at this point in time were comfortable with our program and were going apply anywhere from short to mid to long as theyre necessary.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks and one last one from me; just Ive got a question really about portfolio management how youre thinking about West Africa I mean youve always had some success in [indiscernible] but you have always had some continuing headaches in Guyana how do you see West Africa in general playing in portfolio going forward? John its Al.
It still has a very important role in our company.
Were very pleased with the production capabilities in Guyana particularly with the Jubilee Field with 10 [ph] complex now having been approved for development by the government we see it is a very big and important part of our future.
In addition [indiscernible] we have had some exploration success and I will let Bob Daniels to give you a little additional color on kind of what he sees there through our appraisal and exploration activities.
So while we have not found that next Jubilee field and if he is out of the benchmark for success I do think we continue to have success in West Africa is a big important part of what we do everyday.
Yes John.
Well Ill say we havent found the next Jubilee field outside of Ghana I think the ten has a potential to be very similar to the Jubilee field.
So were pleased to see that moving towards development.
And Cote D'Ivoire announced the Paon discovery a couple of years ago we priced it this year.
We price it a long ways  way down debt fab because we want to touch some exploration concepts to.
And while the zone of interest for the appraisal was whether this location that give us very good information about where the potential whole water contact would be and that would lead us to another price of well because that would give us significant volumes in the Paon accumulation of course we have to test that.
Were planning that would be a Paon-3 well which we drilled this year.
And then were shooting seismic in the rest of reservoirs and plan few other wells for late in the year.
And then in Liberia if you remember we have a Block 10 its next to the D-heater discovery that was announced which probably is non-commercial on that block that we plan to drill at least one probably two wells on Liberia Block 10 to one of them to try to extend the D-heater discovery down on to Block 10 and another pure exploration play.
So were going to be active there.
We still think there is good potential out there.
We found a lot of good indications.
Weve proven the petroleum systems now we have to find the reservoirs and the trap configuration that has a significant accumulation in it.
We may have that Paon well test it and well be looking at some other exploration wells through the year.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning.
Wanted to see if you could give us an update on the development plan for Shenandoah and the Shenandoah Basin and to what degree the appraisal wells youre drilling now would be the catalyst to finalize that development plan or just be a another helpful data point down the road to that development plan?  Brian were most happy to address whats going on in that mini basin.
As you know we havent moved to development yet we see that some challenges there.
On the appraisal side were still pretty active Yes on the  just on the activity how appraising this out in the Shenandoah mini-basin we have a well going at Coronado this would be an appraisal well.
It is really early in the drilling phase but were excited to have that one down because when its down were going to become the operator of that block and increase our interest.
We like what we found at Coronado and we think this reservoir is very key to help improve that up.
Yucatan there is a rig on location there it is spud the first appraisal well at Yucatan.
At Shenandoah were planning on second quarter coming back in and drilling another appraisal well there.
Of course the 2013 appraisal well found a 1 000 fee to pay and no or water contacts or were going to be trying to push the oil-water contact out and look at the early extent of these reservoirs which we do think are very early extensive based on the drilling weve done in here.
So a lot of activity getting after it all of the parties involved are very actively moving this forward.
Of course were the only company that has interest in all three of the discoveries.
So we have probably the most information the best understanding about it now let Jim then talk how that understanding translates into development planning?  Yes I think from a development standpoint we demonstrated as we are a malicious and a Head of our project where the malicious from the time we sanctioned to first production in 2016 will be three years from sanctioned to the first production.
So as we think about Shenandoah basin would be deeper with obviously some different pressure challenges but weve got a very well established and demonstrated deepwater project team here in the Gulf of Mexico with ample experience to take on any challenges that Shenandoah basin they have.
Great thank you.
And then shifting focus to this balancing CapEx and cash flow given the higher natural gas prices that we have in 2014 should we expect either an increase in natural gas activity an increase in oil activity or greater debt pay down and then how do you think about the  to degree and now looking at 2014 prices and youre thinking a little bit further out.
How do you think about the oil futures curve the cost for sharply lower prices than what we see in our screen today?  Yes Brian I think you probably have heard me say and others of our management team talk about the fact that we really need to see sustained prices above 450 before we start to believe that we need to allocate capital into dry gas plays its just doesnt in our portfolio compete well.
That said I think Chuck probably can give you a little additional color around some of this that we are seeing with our onshore activities.
But by and large I think unless we see a different market than we have today we will continue to say oil and liquids focus with our capital spend onshore.
Brian I guess the truth is really more in our actions and what see is doing is continue to lower our rig count in the Marcellus which is probably the best gas play in the U.S.
perhaps sustained from merger were in a really good spot in it.
And so what were trying to do but given our investment options that we have is forward into the oilfields and thats what we are going to continue to do Al mentioned that we looked ahead and thought about what kind of prices we actually start considering increasing our gas investments in its mid force that they start making an impact or outcomes.
And so well continue to watch the curve we have the opportunities were on a warm standby in the event that we can that we want to go do that investments and the first place would go is into the Marcellus.
And Brian I think from what do you do with the excess cash flow that $5 gas gives you in the short run.
I think youre going to anticipate until we have greater clarity around Tronox well just continue to build that cash relative to our expected CapEx plan.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you comment on service cost trends in key place and availability of service for 2014?  Yes can I ask if Chuck can address that onshore and Ill have Jim Kleckner address that offshore and the deepwater?  Yes Pearce I mean I dont think we have time on this call to go through play by play breakdown of cost.
I think what youre  but in general what you are seeing is that cost are reasonable the rig count has dropped off its size a couple of years ago.
And the frac fleet was built out in a fashion that as we get more and more efficient to utilizing it it becomes more and more oversupply.
And so my sense is that the prices in most basins are fairly stable and maybe a little downward pressure there is probably some exception of that maybe one of those would be in the Permian where you are starting to continue to see the ramp up.
And so its incumbent upon us to manage that and take every opportunity we have to be more efficient with that equipment.
I firstly you sit here today its hard to say what oil prices and gas prices are going to do I think we have a lot of impact on services but the things were to stay exactly as they are today I would think that if you would see service costs theyre very similar to slightly downward pressure.
And then from a international deepwater standpoint what were seeing in the Gulf is that a lot of the operators have worked off the backlog of permits from the 2010 2011 permitorium resulted from the spill.
And so were seeing the deepwater rig  ultra deepwater rig rates starting to soften a bit.
And we may see some later on in the service sector but I think youre going to see good demand but probably into the softening market.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up is in the press release yesterday you highlighted some weather issues that impacted you in Q4 onshore U.S.
and that carried on over into Q1.
Any quantification on what you are seeing thus far in Q1 and this Q1 a little worse than Q4 as far as weather?  Not really and we fell within our guidance proud of that our guys worked extremely hard on the field to keep this stuff going.
I suspected in the first quarter well have a little bumpiness in January but were running really well right now.
Im excited about where our teams are.
The program that we have executing right now seems to be doing exactly what we wanted to do.
And I think were going to deliver really nice quarter volume wise and Daniels despite all the staff that all the noise that goes on.
Because we just have a lot of excess capacity sitting behind our systems.
As we continue to build out our infrastructure.
And so thats an offset daily weather impact that we might have.
Pearce that I might just quickly add to fact weve had really winner this year for the first time in 20 years or 30 years and the success were having in a field and the really diligent and hard work has been exhibited today has positioned us through the first month plus.
Then I will just echo what Chuck said I feel very good about volumes for the quarter.
And the weather impact for us today has been managed very well.
Thank you gentlemen.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I had a question on Green River Basin you bought Moxa Arch a quarter ago.
You are selling Pinedale/Jonah now.
Whats your long-term view of that basin and also kind of an accounting basis where do to the volumes for Moxa Arch show up on your ops report.
Okay were very active within the Green River Basin because of the Land Grant goes right to the middle of it.
And so we have a big position out there.
Weve wanted to take a larger position where we can control the assets.
We had a large non-op position in Moxa that weve been like if we had the option can use our economies of scale when the field from our operated position that we could deliver a lot of incremental value and that process is underway.
We didnt feel the same thing about the Pinedale/Jonah asset were in a non-op position is primarily a linear gas position.
And we felt like that trade out of it and into the Moxa position was a value accretion opportunity for Anadarko.
And so thats what were executing on.
As far as what our plans go as far as our forward plans in Moxa what we plan to do is take down the operating expense quite substantially and go back into the wells and reinvigorate the production from them placed on artificial lift and all the kinds of things blocking and tackling that our forecast do everyday.
And our expectation would be that it would shallow the decline and reduce the cost of lifting in the previously non-op position.
So thats the value proposition of that acquisition.
The volume show-up in the  on the operating report and whats generally referred to is the warm sutherland [ph] line which is the greater Green River Basin warm suther is the biggest producing field.
So thats one step.
Gotcha.
And then a quick follow-up at a higher level the dry hole expense for the quarter.
What were the big moving parts in that?  Yes Bob Bob Daniels again dry hole expense was two big issues one was the non-producing lease hold and block 43 or 11 in China and again the non-cash we didnt had anything off of the well because we have no capital in the well were fully carried and the other was variation from guidance was with the Romney well we drill faster than was forecast.
And so we put into the quarter.
So those are the two big issues.
Great thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold.
Your line is open.
Where we would respect to whatever you consider I guess normal in the Wattenberg field as obviously the floods that occurred last year.
Are we pretty close to back to that level or else they can take a little bit more time? Yes thanks Scott.
This is Chuck again.
Were moving in the right direction the Wattenberg field has suffered through the floods and the polar vortex and I am sure locals are coming.
But weve been working really hard our guys have done a great job and our production is coming back and were building an enormous amount of capacity.
It will come on in lumps I could always does as you enable as these new infrastructure projects come on and you suffer some down time when you turn them on because you have to cut lines and do all kinds of things.
But in general what were seeing is very good performance from our wells.
Our program has been able to be expanded Im hopeful that we always have more capacity than we have land.
So I dont think were going to actually solve the land pressure issue because I think the way we are drilling these wells and the quality of the wells well continue to have lot of volumes into the system and were going to be working hard to expand that infrastructure to keep moving those out curves down the land.
What were seeing is taking the next step were growing cash but going forward and I think its an exciting time for Anadarko and Wattenberg its just one one way open asset.
Yes it did seem like bumps kind of ramped mostly into the fourth quarter so I think more specifically but my question is there any like major bridges or roads that got washed out that is still far more that pretty much minor stuff at this point.
Its pretty much minor at this point everybody pull together a lot of folks jump in and help to do all the repair work that was necessary in particular the key roads bridges and that type of things.
So there is still storm going on but by and large we have some good work around.
Scott I would add just Governor Hickenlooper really did a great job of marshalling resources there company and industries perspective we got wonderful support from the Governor to our entire difficult process.
Okay and then another subject into the Wattenberg area I mean what is your thoughts on obviously the question is around fracking in various corners in Colorado what is sort of the key timelines there and obviously you all are mostly involved currently which is probably going to be less of an issue but can you give us some color on that? Yes this is Chuck.
Anyhow the company is very engaged in that debate.
It's part of the democratic system we have.
Our employees contractors trade associations and all the industry Chamber of Commerce and the Governors office as I mentioned earlier are all involved in this process and very supportive of what we are doing I think its fair to say that what we are doing out there is very critical to the Colorado economy and Colorados future.
And there is a lot of folks working really hard to get all the facts down because I think thats whats going to win the debate is that the fracking and the oil and gas development program that are in place are very safe.
That they have a big role and the energy needs in Colorado in the U.S.
and that there is some really good information that's being now discussed and debated in this proper light.
Hope you take the opportunity to be able to create website which I think is really good information and its  I do not know that there is a timeline involved.
Its going to be an ongoing debate for awhile and its a good process that we do regularly.
Okay and one last one if I could you all said it looks like drill another well around your IHUB facility you had 10 000 feet I mean obviously you talked about 450 is that needed a sustainable gas price to get more active onshore.
IHUB probably made a difference from that but can you give us a sense on how we get our arms around sort of this primarily would be gas mark that weve seen in the last few years and one that you are well up there.
Yes.
This is Jim and let me just color on the exploration step-up that weve got around the main structure of IHUB we see the asset life coming through an end a quick end and this is an opportunity to advance some of the development opportunities weve seen around the structure.
This well is relatively a shallower well targeting very high quality sands that are analogous to the fields that were connected to IHUB originally.
So these are some of the largest gas producing wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
We think a combination of the de-risk few of this opportunity in the fourth block high-quality sands and the proximity there is a quick connection and tieback of the central production hub I have will make it for very economical and attractive investment.
You can appreciate because I think you sort of alluded to that our activation cost here is very low.
So therefore we get into an environment like were in right now we can drill a lot or put it online and therefore that vastly differentiates from the development where we would be drilling multiple wells in a shale play.
Okay.
And what does that well going to cost for you? Its going to be around $65 million.
Okay fair enough.
Ill leave it there thanks.
Thank you Scott.
Your next question comes from the line of Harry Mateer from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
This is my first question you have a couple of bond maturities coming up Yes I think what youre referring to is we have one maturing later this year I think its seven  $175 million there about.
And we could pay it out of cash we could decide to refinance if we were interested in doing so.
And so our current expectation would be that wed refinance or we tend to roll our bonds forward with the liquidity position we have dependent upon how we see the turnout situation resolve and how we look forward with the capital.
For this year we might choose to pay it down with cash.
So flexible overall is the answer.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And then as we try to think about the companys liquidity options in addition to your cash the bank line and the asset sales youve already announced can you talk about whats your minimum hold is both the West GP and MLP? Yes we will certainly sell some WGP units during the course of this year.
We own 91% of it the motivation for selling some units is to increase the trading liquidity and the stock.
And hope its a trade to help institutional investors and others feel capable that they can purchase a larger amount without holding too much of average daily volume and ensuring their liquidity and the stock.
Beyond that we arent targeting a particular number that were looking at.
We could sell a lot to still retain control of WGP and accordingly control of West and therefore continue to consolidate these on our financial statements.
And most importantly to drive the operations of these entities to best deliver the volumes to the market that weve talked about in places like the Wattenberg and the Eagleford et cetera but we are not at a stage now where we want to talk about target levels.
Well make the decisions as we go based on where the market is.
And the beauty of this is that the cash flow to us given our leadership position is substantial.
It was about $165 million or so I believe in 2013 its going to be over $200 million in 2014 its growing at 35% to 40% per year.
So between sell downs and cash flow coming from the distribution the WGP is making its a really nice liquidity source coming into Anadarko.
And then we owned a very very small amount of West directly WGP owns about 45% I think it is at the West LP units and we would expect that they will continue to do so.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
And then last one from me I just as you think about potential ways that the turnout situation might resolve not but its entirely within your control but how our investment grade ratings for the interior are priorities? We value the investment grade ratings we have weve worked hard to maintain them over the last five or six years to deal with that effectively coming out of the acquisitions of Kerr-McGee and Western Gas and then on through the Macondo situation.
Al Richey our Treasurer is obviously talking to the rating agencies regularly and the rating agencies have published the numbers that they see its kind of threshold issues that give rise to further analysis or ratings changes.
The nice thing is that asset Tronox they certainly saw what weve done in reducing leverage and continue to expand the balance sheet the size of the balance sheet and the success in the operations.
They saw just pointing toward positive credit migration and so we feel like we can manage.
We were going to have pro forma just as kind of a placeholder pro forma the cash that comes in from the Pinedale/Jonah sale which is closed and the after-tax monies that come in from those.
And we clearly have round 24% 25% debt-to-cap ratio which is at the low end of the target 25% to 35% range that weve talked about for the course of the last few years.
So the underlying strength is there there is Tronox and obviously we look at the various flexibility that we have kind of deal with something related to Tronox given what the rating agency is making sure they are well appraised and understand our views is really important to us.
Harry I just one final comment to that I think given our operating footprint and investment grade rating goes hand in hand with the way in which we think about operating our company.
Inc.</strong> Thanks very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner from Macquarie Capital.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks all my questions have been answered.
Thanks.
Okay thank you Joe.
Operator do we have any additional people on the line for questions.
We do sir.
The next question comes from the line of Peter Kissel from Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Yes Peter.
I will ask for a little bit of leeway on this and we just got the well information very recently but what I could tell you is that we drilled a well found some good reservoirs in our objective section.
We had very good shows through that objective section and then we drilled it on down and we tested what we think is potentially the source rock we have sidewall core information from the lowest most zone which could be the potential source rock and from the reservoirs.
We have not had the analysis done on those.
Weve just got them into the lab and that is going to tell us a lot about what the petroleum system really is out there? How expensive it could to be and what the follow-on potential would be in the block? So its way too early to say that this has condemned anything or encouraged us other than we did get  give reservoirs good shores.
Now we have to learn from that and to what leads us.
As to the Carrabelle well it's a totally different prospect.
The Wyoming is  got different source system different basin it was a different structural configuration different sand system for the reservoirs and we had less information.
When we go over to the Carrabelle area there is a well on the shelf that tested the objective section that we have at Carrabelle tested about 10 million a day of gas and about 2000 barrels of condensate back in the 1980s.
We are just going off into the deepwater for instance kind of into the big four way structure.
Thats very well defined by 3D seismic.
So its a very different play style very different petroleum system.
We have evidence of the working petroleum system far better than we did over in the Deepwater Kerr-McGee.
So we are looking forward to drilling Carrabelle and we are also looking forward to learning as we get more information in from the raw new wells to what it tells us about the Deepwater Kerr-McGee.
Thanks Bob and then Al one other quick one you stressed on monetizations a lot on the call and I know that varied out but I was wondering if you had any update on Brazil.
No update actually I think well we made the comment on our last quarterly call that we are going to continue to try to progress operationally in Brazil.
I think getting the unitization issues with the Itaipu understood in advance this is probably going to critical to whatever we do with that asset.
So I would tell you here I would really would take Brazil off your screen until the ANP or the regulator there gives us clarity around that could have unitization between Jibarke [ph] and Itaipu would play-out.
Gotcha thanks for taking my questions.
You bet thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gilbert from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I keep repeating this of course but a couple more Tronox questions.
I was just wondering what you are doing to prepare for worst case scenario and how would you manage or fund a 10 billion plus number if it came down to Well I think its important to keep in mind as Bobby said earlier we dont have a judgment or ruling we had the Memorandum of Opinion and we are partially through the process of determining what the appropriate offset is that would determine what that judgment might look like.
And so what we are doing as you might expect a scenario modeling from very low numbers to very high numbers and looking at how we would address that.
Fortunately weve got a lot of liquidity.
We have a lot of assets in the portfolio that we know have a tremendous amount of value even if they dont have current reserves and production associated with them and what we really need to do is to wait for the ultimate outcome to be known in the timing of which we would need to provide any liquidity or any bonding and address it at that time that you can rest assure that we are doing a lot of scenario modeling on what the various outcomes could look like and we feel confident in our ability to deal with the situation that's in front of us.
Thanks and maybe I missed this but when do you think you will have clarity on the final outcome.
This is Bobby I think I mentioned earlier that this is still a preliminary opinion its a Memorandum of Opinion after trial.
There is a briefing schedule over the next few months likely to be a hearing after that before the judge in the bankruptcy court.
The issue is final decision whether thats a judgment or a recommendation of Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law will depend upon what the Supreme Court says in the Executive Benefits case.
Then we will make a determination of whether bonding is necessary at that point or whether it would go on to the U.S.
District Court for entry of a judgment and then a bonding scenario.
So we are still some months away from that and then of course that would go up on appeal.
Okay so it sounds like late 2014-ish the way to think about it at that point? I think thats probably a little stretch.
I would think its probably late spring early summer but you never know what  this judge took a year to issue his Memorandum of Opinion after trial.
So we just dont know how long that might be we do know hes announced his retirement this fall.
So it would be before that.
Yes Jason I think its likely that we could say the outside limit here would be October.
Okay great thanks for taking my question.
You bet Your next question comes from the line of Ross Payne from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open How you are doing guys? Just quick question on the Tronox case if it did go to appeal can you give us an idea of how much time that might take? How long it could be dragged off the timing if you were down that avenue? Thanks.
Yes this is Bobby again I wish I had that crystal ball I could tell you that depending upon the jukes and jives that it may take it could take some time it could take a couple of years to get through the appellate process and then would there be some things still remaining at that point that we would want to go to the U.S.
Supreme Court and apply for writs of certiorari.
We just dont know at this point but it will take quite a bit of time.
Okay thanks guys.
And we do have other questions in queue.
Next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning.
Im going to say pulmonary that I apologize from asking anything that's already been asked because I got knocked off the line for a little bit but I got back on.
I have two questions first one is kind of a 10 000 foot deal question and I appreciate it earlier remarks about how you had moved cash into Delaware accelerated if you could.
I was just wondering to get your thinking with regard to the fact that right now looks like its an exploration phase but with seven rigs running when do you think this exploration portion is going to be consummated and you are going to start to progress to concentrated development in areas within your holdings.
Yes Jeffery this is Chuck.
Great question.
Its exciting by the region there are seven rigs we have 600 000 acres out there to look at and it seems like particularly based on offshore activity and just the activities in general in the Delaware Basin that most of it if not all of it is perspective for the Wolfcamp and that's what got us most exciting.
And so we are out there doing a lot of work delineating the play.
About half of those rigs are actually doing some phasing test concentrated development tests in the center of the field.
So were going to get some good information on that as well.
And so youll see us work through that actually the course of 2014.
And during the Investor Conference well give you an idea of what weve seen what our neighbors are doing and do our best to size up the opportunity with some pretty large bound because of the large acreage position that we do have.
Okay all right.
Im sorry go ahead Jeff.
Yes I was just going to say I look forward to that.
I just had one other quick question and again I apologize to repeat I was just wondering what was the importance to drill the Shadowcat exploration well the to feed into the independent hubs or gotten going to do with the hub itself or just put some color on that and Im done.
Thanks.
Yes as mentioned earlier the prospect sizes around the hub are pretty significant.
This one in particular is large structure as we looked at for a long time.
Were also approaching end of life and a hub here in the near future and this is an opportunity that if Thank you.
Thank you.
Operator I think we are well past the top of the hour we tried to accommodate as many of the questions as we could today but I really want to appreciate everyone that was on the call today those of you that arent can listen to it later thank you.
It has been a great quarter great year for us and with that I will turn it back to John.
Thank you everybody for your interest in Anadarko today it was a very active Q&amp;A session.
If you didnt get your questions answered on the phone please feel free to call Bill Jeremy and myself later.
And we look forward to seeing you at the Investor Conference on March 4.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes todays conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
John Colglazier you may begin your conference.
Well thank you Jonathan.
Good morning everyone.
Were glad you could join us today for Anadarkos first quarter 2014 conference call.
Id like to remind you that todays presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures and you need to be aware that a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our Web site and attached to yesterdays earnings release.
At this time Ill turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up for questions with Al and our executive management team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
At a recent investor conference we had the opportunity to provide an extensive look at the portfolios depth and capabilities.
This morning well focus on the excellent results we achieved during the quarter and other recently developments that enhance our flexibility to further accelerate our value.
During the conference we emphasize our five-year track record of success consistent delivery and unmatched optionality Anadarko offers.
In the first quarter we continued to build upon that track record by delivering outstanding operational results including daily sales volume records for infrastructure expansion volumes and significant progress in our high margin oil megaprojects.
The record sales volumes were largely driven by the U.S.
onshore portfolio of assets particularly the Wattenberg field and the Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp shales in total the three growth areas provided an impressive 14 000 barrels a day uplift in our oil volumes over the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the Wattenberg field this growth increasing sales volumes by more than 7 000 barrels a day or 14% over the fourth quarter of 2013 was impressive.
Weve also positioned Wattenberg for continued future growth by addressing the prior infrastructure challenges through the start up of the Lancaster Plant in the Front Range pipeline.
In the Eagle Ford shale we increased our oil volumes from 4 000 barrels a day or 20% as an increase over the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the Wolfcamp we achieved almost a threefold increase in sales volumes over the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are currently running four operator rigs in the identified development area where we have more than 1 000 drilling locations in just of one of four prospective benches.
We are also operating four additional rigs to actively delineate the remaining 6 000 gross acres we have in this play.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we achieved significant engineering milestone at Lucius where we successfully set a 10 000 tonne topside on the hole and we remain on-track for first oil in the second half of this year.
Separately construction on Heidelberg spar is nearing completion and we expect it to sale for the Gulf of Mexico later this year.
Were continuing an active deepwater exploration appraisal and development drilling program participating in eight rigs running in the Gulf of Mexico with two additional rigs on the way.
In Mozambique Anadarko continues to operate one rig in the Offshore Area 1 block drilling exploration and appraisal wells.
In West Africa were mobilizing a rig to commence our drilling program offshore Liberia and Cte d'Ivoire consisting of one appraisal and four exploration wells.
Those are just some of the operational highlights for the quarter.
There is more information in our quarterly operations report which you can access on our Web site.
Subsequent to quarter end we announced a settlement agreement in the Tronox Adversary Proceeding.
Largely removing the uncertainty this dispute has created as Ive said previously were grateful to our stakeholders who maintain their confidence and trust in us during this time.
As the result of the quarter once again demonstrates our employees have done an excellent job of focusing on delivering consistently strong operating results.
With the Tronox uncertainty behind us and our transparent production and cash flow growth expectations were excited about the opportunities to drive differentiating value for our shareholders by first increasing sales volumes expectations for the full year by 3.5 million barrels of equivalents at the midpoint equating to an impressive growth of approximately 8% over 2013 on a same-store sales basis.
Second increasing our 2014 capital investment guidance by $300 million for the focus on further accelerating the short cycle liquids rich opportunities in the Wattenberg field and Wolfcamp shale and third continuing our active portfolio management which has generated more than 10 billion in asset monetization since 2009.
Many of them accelerating value recognition from long dated assets or leveraging trade capital through significantly enhanced returns and as we stated previously during 2014 we also expect to monetize a portion of our holdings in WGP which currently has a market value to Anadarko of more than $9.7 billion more than 1 billion higher than during our investor conference in March.
I believe the quality of the results delivered by Anadarko during the last five years is unmatched amongst our peers and I am confident our best performance is still ahead of us.
With that we will open it up for questions.
Yes.
Good morning gentlemen.
Let's see on the Delaware Wolfcamp Al that was good detail.
One of my questions is going to be where is that incremental CapEx going and it seems you guys are having great results there but I noticed in your operations report you talk about doing some -- looks like reduced cluster and stage spacing.
I wonder if you could talk about that and also what your non-op partner -- how their program is going there and how it compares to yours?  I think as weve kind of highlighted in prior calls the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp shale play for us is a coming attraction and now starting to arrive.
Specifically to your questions Chuck Im going to have you address those if you dont mind and Ive got a follow-up comment as well.
Charles the first part of your question is where the incremental capital going? And its really getting into three buckets.
The big one is Wattenberg where we intend to continue our accelerated program.
Secondly its in the Wolfcamp and that's what's running 10 rigs.
And we're going to -- part of the program is to test some larger frac sizes out there much like we've done in many of our other plays so thats actually part of your second question.
Were going to upsize our fracs.
The early wells that we drilled out there we completed them with what we just call our standard frac.
And just to get good information good reconnaissance information surveillance information so we understand the quality of the play and the extent of it.
And so well be upsizing those fracs and I think they will deliver better results than the wells which would be fantastic because they are already on top of some really good economics.
And then third basically we are putting the incremental capital was is in the Land Grant area and that was in conjunction with what you saw from EOG last night with regard to Laramie County.
Were participating in those wells and well be adding capital into that program.
That is great detail.
Thank you Chuck.
And then shifting gears over to Mozambique there is a lot of questions I'd like to ask but just to narrow it down to one can you talk about what the onshore targets are going to be like? I noticed that some of them are the same age but you're also testing a cretaceous target there.
But I'm also curious about the aerial extent.
Are these potentially -- are the structures as large as what you guys have in offshore Area 1 or are they of that same caliber or should we temper our expectations a bit there? Charles this is Bob Daniels.
I would temper the expectations a little bit just because of the data availability.
We just don't know as much about them.
So while there is a potential for some very significant targets out there.
Until we get some more information it is hard to say whether theyre going to be gigantic or whether theyre going to be small or nothing.
But we have got some good prospects.
The original one is going to be probably started here in the second quarter and will follow-on with the second they are cretaceous targets.
So they are different from what we are seeing in the offshore where we are drilling the tertiary objectives.
And the main reason for that is theres not a lot of tertiary sediments up in the onshore areas the cretaceous is closer to the surface and we think that thats also closer to the source rock so we think thats the best target out in that area.
The few wells that havent been drilled in the onshore arena I think there has been two to date had some shows in the cretaceous so we know the petroleum system is working.
And we are looking forward to getting these wells done but we do have a 2D growth there versus the 3D offshore.
We dont have the EIA that we have been using in the offshore.
So there is going to be really interesting wells to watch.
They do have the good potential but they are not without risk.
And I think Charles as I know you know this.
But just to emphasize it in the offshore area alone today we think we have upwards of 70 Tcf of gas thats recoverable not in place recoverable for what we are doing onshore it was what Bob described we feel like its very additive to that but as you can appreciate we have quite a bit of gas thats recoverable already.
Thank you gentlemen I will let someone else there hop in the questions.
Thank you.
Hi guys can you hear me now? Yes thanks good morning Doug.
Yes John is never going to let me live that one down I am sorry about that.
And so I have got two questions if I may the first one is you got a very cryptic comment maybe not so cryptic in your press release about the flexibility to expand our 2014 capital program and additional methods to enhance value.
I just wonder if you could elaborate on those two issues particularly on the plans perhaps monetize assets with WGP at the top of that list? Well I think Doug you are reading correctly I mean we see something as we get greater clarity and hope to bring a turn offs situation to a closure in the third or fourth quarter.
As that approaches I think we will start to look at things that include WGP as well as other ways to maximize our shareholder value that include as we have mentioned in the past looking and continuing to be an aggressive harvester of our portfolio as well as a manager of it.
Like many firms that invest in us we take as much time and attention to making sure that we apply good portfolio of management skills to continue to reassess the value in our portfolio.
And when you look at how much weve done since 2009 that I have referred to in my prepaid comments you can see we were as active and probably more active than anybody that looking at a portfolio and trying to bring forward value however we can.
So no specifics that you can share at this point? Well I think as you probably appreciate at this point we typically like to talk about what weve done and rather what were going to do.
Okay.
My follow-up is more of an exploration question.
I'm kind of intrigued that Liberia is back on the program again I guess you have talked about its backwards and forwards but I was kind of under the impression that the outlook there or that the conclusions you come to sort of were a bit uncertain so could you walk us through what the thought is there and may be exploration program generally which looks a bit light this year in terms of the guidance for the potential expense overall? And Ill leave it there.
Thanks.
Yes Doug.
Bob again.
Were going to drill five wells in West Africa starting it fairly shortly the Belford Dolphin is on its way to start that activity.
But two of those are going to be up in Liberia and its going to be on block 10 which is the eastern portion of Liberia versus where we drilled the last program which was in the western blocks and over in Sierra Leone with what we've learned from the activities to the west there are some thing that are driving us towards the east and saying theres better potential in that area.
We also have an offset in Liberia block nine thats a discovery to be their discovery and so were actually playing off of that on one of the prospects and think that it will be an expanded section to the up dip discovery on the block nine.
So we actually think weve got some good prospects around over block ten and were looking forward to getting those wells drilled.
Additionally though weve got three wells done in Cte d'Ivoire one is going to be an appraisal to the pond discovery and then two will be exploratory wells so it will be in blocks 515 and 516 one of which is going to be just another down dip expanded section to the recent Total discovery in Cote d'Ivoire.
So some really good potential there we liked the pond appraisal with the results from the first appraisal well which was kind of an appraisal exploration well we got some pressure data that gave us a fairly good indication of where we should expect to or what our contact from pond.
And this appraisal well will be testing that all water contact.
If that does come in it could be a very nice discovery or a very nice appraisal to that discover and then the other two are really good looking prospects and that program will be all back-to-back with the Belford Dolphin taking us through pretty much the rest of the year.
Have you done any kind of carried target interest financially at Cote d'Ivoire I am just curious of the overall guidance and expense for the year its quite modest I guess relatively speaking to the activity level? Yes.
Weve got partners that came in on Liberia block 10 and they are promoted weve got partners in some of the wells in Cote d'Ivoire and they are carrying us on a lot of those costs and were looking for additional partners on the ones that we dont have carried yet and we expect that we will get carries on those also.
Meanwhile were shooting a 3D in 528 and 529 to set up next years program thats in Cote d'Ivoire also and when we get that done well probably be looking for partners at that time.
So were definitely using other peoples money as we typically do and that helps alleviate our capital pressure.
And really lowers our risk exposure.
Now Doug this is Al let me add to that just in case you werent clear you know in Liberia we dont have today any capital exposed wells that we just made reference to so thats typically to what we do whether its successful or not but I think you heard us for a long time talk about a well we want to drill in the South China Sea 4311 and weve got carried there it didnt work out but we got a shot at it.
And the same thing with Liberia here we think is very perspective that we dont have ourselves exposed to a lot of capital if any at all.
Thats very clear thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Good morning nice quarter everybody.
Let me ask one specific and one big picture question.
It offers Chuck I think to comment it on but can you Laramie County can you talk a little more about I know you have Land Grant there can you talk about your plans going forward and just give us a little more color on what youre chasing with the Codell or is it Niobrara? And then I dont know if you have non-op on some of these EOG wells or can you just give some more color there? Hi David the program that they are executing is primarily on the Land Grant and we are participating in the wells.
I would say four township type areas and our plan going forward is to just participate and continue with them on the program.
And in the course were looking up and down the Land Grant we will have a huge position here for additional opportunities that are similar quality and the position we have where we would be encouraging additional activities through farm outs and participation agreements so its a nice opportunity its just taking learnings from the DJ Basin that we and Noble and others have had and continuing to expand it out into the reaches of the basin.
Okay so for near-term just kind of wait and see what others are working and then youll make you decision after that is that the right way to read to that? Were participating.
Yes.
So we certainly letting others work force.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Al can you just -- youve raised CapEx this year by 300 million whats the best way to think about if everybody looks out of here those cash flow and your talks about Anadarko may accelerate CapEx further some people are talking about a share buyback can you just talk about how you are assuming Tronox to disclose how you see this playing out if we think about the next couple of years? Good question.
And I can fully appreciate where youre coming from on it right now I think I can best describe as were evaluating the type of company that we can be and best maximize our potential on the backside of Tronox and as we move through over 100 000 barrel of equivalents a day we have continued to show a lot of growth the last five years.
And as youve seen in this quarter as well as in the prior years we have a good sustainable ability to grow.
We have the advantage of the very successful MLP NGP Mid-West and WGP that weve been leased in the past explaining that we dont anticipate holding 91% of the ownership in WGP forever.
We have additional ways in which we think about how to maximize share price and some of that could be taking the form of additional dividend raises if you recall last August we did increase the dividend at that time and we did for a moment dispel the notion that that was the only time you should expect us to increase the dividend so that is certainly one of the things that were currently evaluating and we will be discussing with our Board in the coming months.
Were also looking at things that we think could help us continue to grow the way weve been growing.
At this point the evidence that youve seen this quarter in our volumes of growth in oil are very attractive as gas starts to come back into the equation at some point we could in fact look to our gas portfolio for some growth but right now we dont really need to do that and dont see a sustainable gas price is likely to attract capital relative to the other things in our portfolio.
So I guess Id say David the things that weve always talked about in the past in terms of wanting to consider a buyback of shares just to address that one specifically.
Weve always believed if we were going to buy back stock we want to do it to the extent we took at least 10% or more of the stock off the table so that we permanently change the capital structure.
So as you think about usages of cash Id say its into the operating business first being able to fund the types of things that youre seeing that were doing this year and future years continuing to be an exploration company that does things with the drill bit followed by well look at the right times to increase our dividend yield and then to the extent we think its attractive to us and capital is available well consider share buybacks with the understanding that it really needs to be a permanent change to the capital structure.
Now those are my comments if I can I'm going to ask Bob Gwin to also share a little bit because really this falls in his daily work and the things that he works on a whole lot more closely than the rest of us.
Al thanks I think youve covered it I think the only thing I would add to it is that is our debt ratio and our target debt ratio as weve laid out for a number of years now is 25% to 35%.
With this Tronox payment and some marginal free cash flow this year given the increase in the capital budget we expect that number to be slightly north of that target range and so one of the areas that were going to be focusing on with the proceeds from assets sales like China et cetera is to keep an eye on that capital structure because of strong investment grade balance sheet is an important part of our business model.
And so I think thats the other governor there relative to the usage of cash that goes into the equation.
David I hope that addresses your question.
Okay and then -- it does but Im going to drill down one more level on you.
If I go back just the last fall right you had been talking about before the Tronox became what it became youve talked about accelerating maybe East Texas and some of the other liquids rich opportunities is that what you foresaw at that time is that already in your 2014 numbers or is there still more acceleration opportunities out there that you could take advantage of later this year into next year? Yes I think I want to answer your question this way.
When we allocate capital we basically allocated to exploration where exploration projects compete against exploration projects and then development projects compete against development.
As we look at our development portfolio and as commodity prices move around whether its natural gas crude oil or NGLs.
We take a longer view of what we think that commodity price deck is going to give us more than the yield and where we cant get an acceptable rate of return it speaks about our portfolio.
We will allocate capital that way.
What we see today in our 14 capital plans and the increase you are hearing about this morning thats the right place for now for us to increase capital as we get closer to having Tronox over and behind us I suspect we will my continue to look at that and maybe in coming quarters you'll see us allocate capital increasingly in some of the areas that we have talked about previously.
Okay good yes I appreciate you humoring me a little bit there.
So thanks for all the color.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Chuck I was wondering if you could maybe walk through the sequential increases in Wattenberg.
Obviously some of your peers have had some weather related downtime so just a little bit -- I wanted to see if you could talk through that particularly Lancaster was backend loaded in the quarter? Certainly Arun thank you for the question.
Now first of all I would just like to give a big shout out to our Wattenberg team and the amazing work theyve done through the last six months or so with the floods back in September and the Polar Vortex and you name it.
They've just done a fantastic job and through all that they have put together some tremendous results.
And weve talked about sort of the stack up or the pressuring up or the field and I think what you saw in the first quarter is with the incremental compression ends and getting the field capable of moving to the next level with the Lancaster start up the NGL pipeline the new residue pipeline that we have put in the expansion of a rail terminal and all that we finally managed to get all that lined up.
And although we did suffer some weather downtime during the quarter as many of our folks did what we had is more capacity to move fluids and hydrocarbons out of that field and that resulted in the big uplift that you've seen.
We really are just -- and my view is we really have just seen the benefits of the inlet of Lancaster right now.
The new compression as we've done have de-pressured the field to a large degree.
We still have some room to go there with additional compression.
But in the second quarter what we ought to see is Lancaster come up to full speed.
We'll pull the field down even further from a pressure perspective.
That will start to increase our NGL yields through the plant and it will also reduce the pressure in the field so our wells can flow with their capacity.
So it's an exciting time in Wattenberg.
Guys are real busy.
Theyre really excited because they're starting to see the fruits of a whole lot of labor and blood sweat and tears out there in the last year and this is playing out much like we anticipated it would play out.
We were just jammed up.
We had more production capacity than we had capability to move it out and we were slowly getting out of that condition and it's starting to see some really big uplifts and nice production volumes.
Chuck did you see some of the vertical production improve just given the reduced line pressures in the quarter? I think thats a possibility.
They have probably suffered the most just because they're older wells and at lower pressures and as the field pressure comes down they'll be bucking less pressuring and you could see some incremental there.
I think the thing to keep in mind there is that as we have drilled the horizontal program its become the predominant production if you will.
The horizontal program now is up over 83 000 barrels a day and I don't need to remind you that's 84% year-over-year from this time last year so it's a huge move and so the vertical wells although still important to us are less and less a percentage of the total.
So even if we got a nice bump which I think is a realistic expectation it won't be as meaningful as just executing our program running our rigs pulling off our fracs and getting these wells turn down the line because they're such strong wells with great economics.
Great I had a follow-up just wanted to see Al if you could discuss -- provide maybe an update on steps to reach FID in Mozambique in particular E&amp;I is looking at different development options including flex LNG.
So just wanted to talk about Mozambique? I think Jim Kleckner and I will try to tackle that question together.
FID for us is not a risk as it relates to the reserves.
I made a reference earlier in the call that we now believe we have upwards of 70 Tcf of recoverable gas.
We've gotten certain of our reserves there certified for reserves are not a risk for us.
Some of the project financings its probably best to let Bob Gwin talk where we are there as well.
But Jim was actually in Mozambique this last weekend visiting with the President and the certain of the ministers there in terms of trying to forward some of the things we have contractually we're in negotiations on.
So I'm going to let him if you don't mind address those specifically.
And then if I can have Bob talk about the project financing all of which when working together is what's going to feed for lack of a better word the FID hurdles.
So let me just give a quick update on what's been accomplished to-date.
As Al said the resource size is significant.
And we think there's the potential for 50 million tonnes just off the Area 1 resource base.
And thats 50 million tonnes per annum.
So we've looked at initially a two train which is a 10 million tonne per annum project and we've secured the necessary land to place the LNG part for the initial two trains and the expansion and we secured over 27 square miles from the government.
In addition weve advanced the FID projects and we received both the offshore and the onshore FIDs.
Weve also submitted the EIA to the government are waiting for a certification so all the steps are moving forward with advancement.
Weve also worked very cooperatively with E&amp;A who has the adjacent field which is a starveling reservoir with Area 1 and we have put in master depletion plans with E&amp;I for the joint development of Prosperidade and Golfinho as well as agreed to certain principles of the unit agreement and also land utilization between the two area in the development so thats all progressing very well.
Weve also been successful in marketing roughly 60% of our targeted volumes to reach FID and theyre under non-binding headed agreement with premium Asian buyers.
So weve got everything positioned from a engineering standpoint and land security but the thing that were working on with the government as Al alluded to is because of the size and the scope of this project we need to secure legal contractual and fiscal stability through the government that we believe in the form is of a decree law and were currently in the process of working with the government to achieve that.
Once we have that agreement that will give us the necessary language and the protection so that we can start working with the project financing community to bring the necessary funds to launch the project.
So Bob if you want to add anything to that.
I think you covered it well.
The other pieces need to be together so that you can understand the moving pieces that would into the credit risk and we had ask the project finance providers to bear.
Obliviously thats also true for our equity dollars and so once these pieces are in place weve done all the spade work with the ECAs.
We feel like were pretty well positioned to drop the hammer to proceed on the project financing when these other pieces are known and hopefully in doing so that will shorten the timeline normally associated with project financing and put us in a position to reach FID sooner then we otherwise might and just to touch on some of that I believe we have shared before.
Our expectation here would be to look in the 55% to 60% project financing range so obviously its an important part for ourselves and our partners its an important part to both help our equity returns and to fund a significant amount of the capital associated with the first two trains.
Arun this is Al I appreciate you asking a question often times people only want to know about this years cash flow and next years cash flow with respect how were doing operationally so I really do appreciate you asking about something thats out in the horizon beyond the typical cash flow horizon I just made reference to.
Okay thank you then.
Yes hi two areas I kind of want to focus on.
First earnings you added an event AAPG event youve talked apparently about Shenandoah being of quite a sizable potential producer if you could or anyone could explain on that view timing A and B if in that span of exploration and development of Anadarko will retain the current working interest in the project? And the second area if I could is just an expansion on the PRB it looks like in the activity if youve got a big footprint out there in activity it seems to expand northwest to southeast and if there is some specific results and targets you could divulge? Subash this is Bob and Ill start with the Shenandoah mini-basin and then let Chuck handle the second part of the question.
I think it was right the Shenandoah mini-basin is a very significant discovery for us and has a great deal of potential there.
But we have a lot of work to do to get that potential actually defined and then to put development plans around how we will bring the value forward to that.
Right now were drilling around both Coronado and Yucatan and those are the first appraisal wells in each of those and then were going to be drilling a second appraisal well at Shenandoah that should start here probably within a months time.
All that data is going to need to be rolled into our thinking about how wed bring this field forward but when you talk about the scale of things remember Shenandoah the first appraisal well had 1 000 feet of pay and no water.
So the second appraisal well is going to be focused on trying to define their own water contact try it push it down depth and looking at the lateral continuity of the sands.
Both of which if the second well is successful they are going to give us a much better handle on what the overall resource size of just the Shenandoah field is.
And then of course Yucatan Coronado all of the appraisal work going on there needs to be rolled into that as to how this overall complex would be developed.
We will be the operator of Coronado after this well were the operator at Shenandoah and then of course Shell is operating Yucatan.
Weve increased our interest in several of the wells and that gives us more control particularly Coronado with the operatorship where weve got the operatorship and then where were testing a Miocene objective in this appraisal well which is different than what weve announced in the original discovery the original discovery in Coronado we announced a lower tertiary success and we kept quiet about the Miocene where we found about 300 feet of pay and the reason for that was we saw some additional acreage we wanted them to control.
We were able to get our positions established increase our working interest there takeover operatorship and now were going to test what the extent of that Miocene potential maybe.
So theres a lot of different things going on out here theres a lot of different reservoirs the Miocene would be the easiest development if it came in to be a scale and then of course the lower tertiary is going to be a longer term development.
Last part of your question was would we maintain our working interest as youve seen what we did at Lucius what we have done at Heidelberg what we did in Mozambique.
We always -- once we define what the resource is what the costs are what the basic economics are we decide we want all of our interest we want to have somebody sharing the cost of bringing these forward.
And bring some value forward and we will make that decision when we have the adequate information to call it so with that I will turn it over to Chuck.
Yes Subash this is Chuck.
Powder River Basin of course you know we been active up there for a number of years we have a very large position scattered throughout the basin its about 560 000 acres gross and 350 000 acres net so thats a very substantial position.
Its really broken into three or four areas I think the one I am most excited about is in the South where we have a Nyo part that we're evaluating in the Southeast side of the basin.
Were also doing programs in the Shannon and Frontier and the remainder of the acreage position that have some early promise to them so were really just getting started the basin it is an exciting basin to play because it has a big oil column in it fully saturated oil column lots of different intervals to work and so our technical teams are just cutting into parts and the industry has been relatively active up there chasing these.
And with recent announcements I think you can see even more activity coming forward.
So its an exciting opportunity another opportunity to add a big oil play into our portfolio and there is still a lot in the game for us but exciting.
The Southeast youre referencing is that Southeast Converse County? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And final one from me if I could I just wanted to perhaps get a list of the infrastructure projects youre still waiting on it looks like a lot of the 14 projects are now complete and what we should be looking for perhaps in the next 12 months? Well there is a lot of them and maybe it is best you take it up with John offline but the big ones of course are getting Lancaster up to speed Lancaster 1 at full rate and then we have Lancaster 2 on the construction right beside it.
And were also doing a lot of work on in the Wolfcamp Delaware Basin area so that we can bring that production online at capacity.
And were in all around Wattenberg we have different projects including the expansion of White Cliffs that is going on and we continue to add in field oil and water infrastructure to take trucks off the road and reduce our footprint in the area and then we will be working work hard in the Powder River Basin to get the initial infrastructure in so we can test our prospects.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Great job thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Looking at the pretty attractive growth youre seeing the Delaware Basin and then in the Eagle Ford can you talk a little bit about your outlook for current crude quality there? How crude quality might be changing and what that might mean to relative pricing in those areas? Yes.
Good questions with us today is the guy that runs marketing for us Scott Moore so Scott why don't you address that if you dont mind.
Thank you David.
I would say the outlook for crude quality has been steady so we have a light oil and we saw that priced off of LLS or WTI or local postings that closely there too and the pricing remains relatively competitive obviously in the Midland postings for the second quarter been we are looking a little softer we had a good one in the first quarter but there is significant infrastructure expansions particular the BridgeTex line that will come in the third quarter this year that will and two other projects so a lot about 750 000 barrels a day of pipeline exports out of West Texas so I think that will be a long-term solution to the short-term pipeline congestion.
Okay.
And David I just wanted to add to your thought process there when you look at where we are investing money on the U.S.
onshore I mean you talked about the growth rates I am really excited about the fact that if you take a look at the Maverick its up 41% year-over-year Delaware Basin not just the Wolfcamp but in total is up 34 000 I am just sorry 34% year-over-year and then the Wattenberg program is up 84% year-over-year the Wattenberg programs up 84% so we have a lot of growth a lot of that is crude and we will try to get out in front of the infrastructure gain as we have just talked about in Wattenberg and Scott and his team have been a big help in getting that done and our midstream folks have done just a fantastic job getting all this new infrastructure that has accommodated that massive growth in three big plays.
Great.
I appreciate that clarification and maybe following up on that when we look at Q1 CapEx came in lower than expected production above the high-end of the range so Id speculate that the drive of that is better recoveries and efficiency gains is that a fair assumption? And then as a follow-up to that when we look at the CapEx increase given kind of movements to pad drilling timing of deployment of that itd seem that the production uplift for the balance of this year is less related to that CapEx but maybe more towards what youre seeing in current production and the CapEx would have a bigger impact to15 is that a fair way to think about that? There is a lot of embedded questions in that and I think it is fair to say were continuing to see a fair amount of efficiency gains both in our drilling and completion and even in our equipment surface equipment expenditures so our guys are doing a fantastic job getting this stuff online in a very capital efficient manner.
And the drilling times that weve seen in all of these programs continue to fall so weve been able to get more work done with the number of rigs that weve employed than we had the previous year a year before that and I mean its just been a progression its amazing.
Even some of record wells and say the Eagle Ford are now down below five days.
So its just tremendous capital efficiency.
And so I think that the ability to get it online faster and with infrastructure available to us youll see that production -- weve got a lot of production momentum if you will coming out of the fourth quarter into first quarter so the later part of your question I think there is some pent-up opportunity there just from what weve seen.
Another example is in Wattenberg we drilled about 120 what we call short equivalents laterals which is a record pace for us with the rig fleet that we had.
So we could even modestly moderate the rig fleet and still get the same job done just because of the efficiency gains.
And as weve been able to invest in these programs efficiently I think the capital that were adding to these programs will just continue to build the momentum into 2014 thats what youve seen in the uplift and the guidance and it will certainly benefit 2015 when we get a full year benefit out of that investment.
Dave this is Al.
I just want to add one thing.
I know that its sometimes obvious particularly for those of you who follow and analyze 10-Ks as closely as you do but when you look at how we rank compared to our peers on lifting cost and isolating LOE as an example.
Were as efficient as anyone and probably more than almost anyone thats not just a cost segment but its the efficiency things the Chuck is making a reference to and then when you combine that with -- again peer leading F and D you can see that our ability to be efficient with our capital particularly onshore is driven by the notion of being able to drill these wells in fewer days and continue to find ways to be efficient.
So the combination of the two were pretty proud of and I cant say enough about what Chuck and all of the folks associated with our onshore operations whether its exploration or production or development or midstream have done it really is a distinguishing factor for us.
Great.
Well we appreciate the clarification off to a great start this year thanks guys.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Al your comments kind of on the long-term spurred something weve been talking about with Anadarko and actually your large cap peers that have multiyear visibility for growth.
As you grow towards a million barrels a day how do you strategically think about maintaining your culture and your growth and not really suffer from the wells that the majors have suffered from? Well I think youve probably heard me to say a couple of thing and Ill reiterate a few of them one is we want to get better not bigger that is a really important comment for us even though over the last five years when others have tried to reset the bar and have applied in some cases a shrink to grow approach.
We have been growing continuously through that period but its really more of mantra of getting better not bigger.
The other thing is is I think is really a hallmark in this organization going back to Bob Allison and then Jim Hackett is that its an entrepreneurial organization we push decision making down to people its a part of the culture that we want to create and encourage.
I think as we move from where we are to little over 8 000 barrel a day equivalent to perspective in a few years a million.
Well do that with the same culture that we have today a one that empowers people to make decisions a one that rewards people for making good decisions and doesnt overly punish them for bad decisions.
We expect an entrepreneurial organization to take risk.
This is a never going to be an organization is so riskless that we avoid risk but we want to be prudent with risk taking and I think its the entrepreneurial spirit that Bob and Jim promoted and encouraged that we will continue.
Thanks.
I think that I just wanted to hear it again and it makes me smile the Chuck You dont need to say it again.
No I dont the -- Chuck as you think about the two the four rigs in your non-development area in the Delaware Basin can you talk about the number of wells youve drilled there and there and their results specifically? David we do have four rigs that are out doing the condensates work and we have the benefit particularly up in the western and northwestern portions of our acreage position and the industry is really getting active out there as well.
So were getting not just our data but a lot of industry data to help us to size up the play I am sure you have paid close attention to it there are some really good wells out there in the East County areas is showing to be a really nice area and very competitive.
We have a large land position out there to check aboard land position.
So we have access to a lot of good access a lot of good information were working closely with the participants out there to make sure that we have a low cost option.
The results have been in line with the industrys which are good and we have a big program coming up so I really dont want to I dont really want to call out any individual wells but weve had some high RPs and weve got some great 30 day rates et cetera.
But I going to wait till we execute this program that we are on now but we will really say what we think the averages and our type curve's will look like.
Because we just have a scattering of wells right now.
And my sense is David that that this is some really good stuff.
Were really focused on the upper A bench there are numerous benches out in that area also three or four depending upon where you are at.
And so we will be testing each one of those.
And our land position is really large 600 000 gross acres and so well be doing a lot of work out there were knocking these wells out in a 30 day timeframe so with four rigs in a few months we will have lot of good information that we can share with the community and I think were looking forward to that Dave because I believe its going to be pretty good.
Alright.
Thanks Chuck.
Thank you good morning.
Coming back to Wattenberg theres been a lot of talk on the call with regards to both the timing and trajectory of production.
And the various Midstream items but I wanted to focus on well performance.
Can you add any color on the recent performance that youve seen in the Codell versus the Niobrara sales any down spacing test and whether well performance was the major factor here in driving the better production in the first quarter? Well its a great question.
We continue to develop most of them what we did early this year has put what we call Southwest corner tested online and it is a cluster of wells in the South West portion of the field.
Its a series of Codell and Niobrara were using about eight Niobrara and four Codell's per section.
And they have they have done extremely well most of them only have 90 to 120 days of production on them we still the ways to go before we really good get good information but the early returns look like they are well above type curve and the program that we are going to continue to execute has about 150 or so wells in that area out of our 385 or so.
And so its an area that shows a lot of promise and we are very lucky to have it come on early in the year but it wouldnt have performed as well had we not had the capacity to move the gas.
And thats what thats what weve been working really hard on in the last year is getting out ahead of this stream and we fortunately are there and so we were able to export get rid of the gas and thats allowed these oil wells to start showing their capacity and so far we really like what we see and I just think if you look at the math that we provided at the investor conference you will see that group of wells.
In Southwest corner and thats I think thats more confidence that the resource base its a big resource base its 1 to 1.5 billion barrels with upside depending on down spacing is there and these -- this is a big field.
And were getting a lot of really good information that says that resource base is becoming more -- high and higher confidence and we are continuing as we mentioned at the investor conference that were continuing the down spacing programs that wed discussed its only been 30 days since then or so we dont have a lot of new information.
Those things take a little while to really start differentiating between the spacing so you will see us evaluating that throughout the year and they are making some calls on how we go about developing the other 80 or so percentage of this field we havent developed yet.
Great.
Thank you.
And then separately just going back to the level of capital investment that are not bigger et cetera.
Assuming you are spending more money assuming youre getting better that should then translate to more production and youve big projects like Lucius coming on given I think what youve kind of said on the call with regards to more interest in potentially allocating capital here should we think of the 5% to 7% and focus on the upper end of that range or is there potential at least for a couple of years to exceed the upper-end of that range? Brian I think weve set those ranges with an expectation that we can deliver that where were in the range.
There is things that can insulate that but we have no control over like weather but I do think we take that into consideration as were kind of projecting our business but just I think were comfortable saying thats the kind of range that we should be able to hit.
And so there are factors that cant -- one of the other things that we cant predict is whether or not were in ethane rejection or not so if were in a market thats better for ethane in the future than we have had in the past.
And obviously production is going to go up because were not rejecting the ethane.
So those are factors that we really dont have any control over and so therefore thats the reason we give you the range.
Great thank you.
You bet.
Thanks.
Just wanted two follow-ups on the Mozambique Bob youve provided the target range on sort of project financing any update to sort of how you see your position in that project going forward? And do any of the nonbinding HOAs consider equity ownership from any of the buyers? Let me do this if I can Joe.
Its probably worth it just spending a few minutes but weve got Scott Moore to talk a little bit about where were in this HOA its better understood so why dont we start with that.
Sure thanks Joe so our nonbinding HOAs are progressing well.
I would say the agent buyers have a strong interest in Mozambique.
They appreciate its world-class resource size and its geographic diversity adding to their strategic portfolio benefits.
We do separate uptake from equity investment so our marketing side we were just looking an uptake.
So theyre not tied in that context.
And were getting pleased what were seeing in terms of the valuations and the pricing.
Weve targeted traditional oil index pricing or other structures that give us comfortable value and that what weve been seeing.
Just taking that one step further is to what it means form an equity investment standpoint that means that were running our math assuming the 26.5% equity ownership position and I think weve talked in the past about what the amortization of the 10% weve now closed and $2.1 billion after tax that means weve captured the roughly billion dollars to date net interest thats been invested and leaving us with little north of billion dollars and that number approaches if you run the math right that number approaches the equity investment associated with the first two trains.
So we feel weve substantially financed de-risked the project going forward.
And Joe that for me that is one of the little hallmarks that separates us from maybe others that have looked at this -- weve really taken the long cycle nature of the capital out of this by being creative and aggressive amortization so that were not sitting here with capital that is followed through seven or eight years before starts to return to us.
Great.
And I guess just one follow-up.
What does it take to convert those nonbinding HOAs into binding agreements is it depended on FID or one of the targets need to be one way? The objective will be to have the SPAs in places part the package that we look out to take an FID decision.
I would say that the HOAs contain a sort of key principle agreement on commercial terms and after that turn those into comprehensive and detailed documents that do take some times to negotiate but well go underway and working on those as well.
Joe I know you know this but to explain others not as deep in their understanding of the LNG business selling in HOA is a whole lot more of an intent than a letter of intent.
Basically were engaged with the notion of getting married to these contracts.
Got it thank you that is all I have got.
You bet.
Jonathan thank you.
Id just have a couple of comments I want to make.
First I really want to emphasize we as management and the Board of Anadarko appreciate the support weve gotten from all of our stakeholders over the last couple of years dealing with the uncertainty around Tronox and are relieved to be looking at it in the rearview mirror and be even happier when the day and its concluded.
I think each of you that have been following our Company over the last five years have been pretty exceptional.
I made reference to it earlier today but its exploration project management production solutions or development there is not a company that can do the things that weve done consistently as well as weve done in the last five years.
And I really do believe the next five years have us position to do even better than weve been able to achieve the last five.
The other thing that Im very proud of what we do and how we do that is the way we actively manage our portfolio and look for ways to bring value in our portfolio forward that shows up in the share price.
So without the cloud of uncertainty associated with Macondo and Tronox I think each of us on this call are excited about what the new few quarters and coming years are going to look like.
As hopefully were able to let the operating performance in this Company become very bright without any clouds in the sky.
Again I want to conclude by saying thank you again.
You guys have done just a one or two job of understanding and trying to be patient whether its been the sell side or the buy side.
And we're glad to have ourselves where we are today.
So I appreciate it.
And we look forward to seeing everyone very soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q2 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier please go ahead sir.
Well thank you Jonathan.
Good morning everyone.
And Im glad you could join us today for Anadarkos second quarter 2014 conference call.
Id like to remind you that todays presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures be aware that actual results could differ materially from what we discuss today.
And I would encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the non-GAAP reconciliations weve included on our Web site and attached to last nights earnings release.
I would also like to introduce the newest member of the IR team Robin Fielder a petroleum engineer and she recently moved over from running our East Texas operations.
Robin succeeds Bill Tedesco who has returned to our exploration group.
With that Ill turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up for Q&amp;A with Al and the rest of our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning to everyone on the phone.
Our operating performance was outstanding in Q2 further demonstrating that our strategy portfolio and employees are all aligned to deliver strong results and shareholder value.
In the quarter Anadarko delivered record U.S.
onshore growth on a same-store sales basis by growing year-over-year U.S.
onshore volumes by an incredible 117 000 BOE per day.
About half of which was high margin oil this volume growth was equivalent to adding an entire midcap company organically.
We also advanced our Gulf of Mexico megaprojects on schedule.
And we recently enhanced our liquidity and financial flexibility for continued success.
Our U.S.
onshore portfolio delivered tremendous growth in the quarter.
The biggest contribute was Wattenberg which grew an impressive 39 000 BOE per day sequentially 80% of which was higher margin liquids.
The growth in the Wattenberg field has been nothing short of exceptional and was driven by our horizontal program coupled with higher NGL recoveries from the start up of the Lancaster plant and lower line pressures in the field as a result of our mid-stream investments over the past several months.
In addition to our Wattenberg and Eagle Ford positions we have another significant emerging oil opportunity in the Wolfcamp Shale and the Delaware Basin in West Texas.
Our ongoing development program has been very successful to-date and were working to optimize spacing lateral lengths and completion designs.
Were also further evaluating the resource potential of our 600 000 gross acre land position due to success outside our previously defined high confidence area and well performance significantly exceeding early expectations for the production of high margin oil.
For example one of our best wells to-date has been a one that averaged a sustained 30 day production rate of almost 1 800 BOE per day and is located north of an area we previously designated as having a high confidence characteristic.
In total this emerging area has grown sales volumes of more than 5 500 BOE per day net over the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to expand our infrastructure in this area to facilitate future growth and we are looking forward to share information on this program in future quarters.
Additionally the Eaglebine in Central Texas the Powder River Basin oil opportunities and the Niobrara Codell formations in Laramie County at Wyoming are all showing very encouraging results.
At these developing areas of activity become more significant we look forward to sharing their performance in our future expectations.
And the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico were advancing on schedule for first oil this fall at Lucius.
All the major construction is finished and were in the process to completing the development wells.
Were also looking forward to first oil at Heidelberg in 2016.
Construction on the spar is nearly complete and drilling is underway at the first development well.
Thats just a few of the quarters operating achievement.
I encourage you to review our second quarter ops report available on our Web site for more highlights and details about our strong performance this quarter.
Turning to the financial results we generated free cash flow and ended the quarter with nearly $5.4 billion in cash on-hand.
We recently arranged additional financial flexibility through a $3 billion five year unsecured credit facility along with a $2 billion 364 day facility.
We additionally entered into the bond market for the first time in four years by issuing $1.25 billion of securities at very attractive pricing.
Subsequent to quarter end we also received 335 million from our first WGP secondary offering.
I will remind you that we still own 88% of WGP with the current market value of about 11.3 billion which for those that recall is about 3 billion higher than when we spoke to you at our investor conference.
Going forward based on our impressive results so far this year were again increasing our sales guidance for the full year this time by an additional 5 million BOE at the midpoint.
This represents an almost 10% production growth over last year on a same-store sales basis.
As we have consistently demonstrated since 2006 we will continue to be one of the most active companies in our industry managing our portfolio.
We expect to close that previously announced transactions and you should expect us to continue to monetize additional assets to realize value when its appropriate.
Beyond the recent increase to our dividend we also continue to pursue various methods of accelerating and enhancing the value embedded in our portfolio such as additional WGP secondary offerings and evaluating our substantial mineral interest ownership that we quantified for you a few weeks ago.
So with that well open it up for questions.
And thank you again for your participation this morning.
Let me ask you a couple of questions.
First just starting off with a big picture question if you think out three to four years how do you view your current mix of unconventional conventional how do you view that? And do you see a significant change in that I mean do you expect to get more active as far as the Permian and some of these on-shore shales I will just I will leave it at that and let you answer that? Alright.
Well let me start David with thank you for the question and second I think one of the things that we are first and foremost is an exploration company.
So I think as you think about capital allocation we will continue to be the kind of explorer we have in the past with allocation going to exploration on a consistent basis.
As far as the production mix in the next say 3 to 5 years as an interim period its more likely that that mix will increasingly become more on-shore given the past capital allocations that we have made but I think in a 5 to 10 year horizon we believe a mix of conventional and unconventional as we have been allocating capital for some time is the right way to think about how we will provide you and others with transparent growth that will come down only from the conventional assets that you know about today but some that you dont as well as a unconventional position we have on-shore.
Alright.
Okay let me chop up that and let me ask just about Colorado and all the noise out here with the initiatives and et cetera can you just talk about how you view that issue and then if you assume the initiatives past like what could you do internally or from a corporate perspective as far as reallocating dollars just how do you see that playing out? I know its a sensitive topic but.
It is and I understand the question and I appreciate the question.
So thanks for asking it.
I think for those that live in Colorado and understand it sometimes the politics there are something that is hard to always appreciate.
I was reminded the other day through someone else of a Churchill quote that I always loved and things that maybe it is appropriate here and when you think about it simply as when Churchill was asked one time what he thought of Russia he referred to it as a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside of an enigma.
And in some ways it is a little bit of what we are dealing with here.
We dont know what the ballot initiatives are going to look like because they are still being formed and so I cant do anything about describing to you what those ballot initiatives are actually going to look like.
And more importantly I dont know the rule making around those would be in the event that we were unsuccessful.
But I think today our view on that is just simply we just cant speculate David.
I dont think you would expect us to and we cant.
And I think and additionally we have committed as a company as an industry to educate voters.
And I think we are doing a good job of that.
We still have a lot of work to do as it relates to that education.
I think as both through educational mediums as well as trade groups were trying very hard to be sure that voters understand what theyre voting on.
In a state where a third of the registered voters are Republican a third are Democratic and a third are independent its a little bit different.
It really is a purple state in lots of ways.
But as I am sure youre well aware whether its the Senate race or the race for who is the next governor there is not one major politician from either party that has come out in support of the ballot initiatives.
And I think without sounding politically charged and actually trying to sound apolitical here it doesnt seem like either party has much affiliation with the ballot initiatives.
The business community have certainly lined up against it because of what they see it would do to the state from both the growth perspective a tax perspective jobs and most importantly from a revenue perspective as it relates to education schools infrastructure and other things if the only gas business not just Anadarko had been at the forefront providing since 2008 as the states come nicely out of the recovery from the recession.
So I am encouraged that we have a lot of the right things on the ground being considered by people who at this point are listening.
And I think we will continue to provide education and make sure that people understand the facts and not to the graffiti.
Good morning Al and congratulations on the quarter.
As you think about the Delaware Basin and the next like David Tamerons follows three years seems reasonable.
Can you talk about infrastructure build out and kind of capacity around both getting oil but as importantly getting gas and potentially liquids out?  David this is Chuck here and thanks for the question.
We are as noted in the operating pool were really excited about the Delaware Basin and we continue to rollout incremental news on it.
What were seeing is our high confidence area has been performing very well and you can tell that from the lift in volumes.
These are great wells.
And then weve continued to drill outside that.
We have a four-rig program that were working outside the high confidence area and its starting to deliver really good results.
We noted those also in the operating report several of the wells of over 1 000 barrels a day average for the first 30 days.
And so as you are aware overtime weve been drilling Bone Springs and Avalon wells out there so we have the backbone of the infrastructure to allow to us get these wells online to a point all that infrastructure is starting to get crowded these are such big wells when they come on at a 1 000 barrels a day you eat up a lot of infrastructure really quickly.
And so were working on every element effectively from oil takeaway to gas handling and processing and power and then water sourcing for our completion activities.
So each one of those are constrained I think we have a fairly good plan to move each one of those four.
We are actively investing and expanding those infrastructures infrastructure positions and we can -- it is much like Wattenberg when we started we had the backbone of the field there to work with to get the information we needed to right size and make some fairly good pretty big concept function changes in infrastructure and thats what were planning and doing in the Wolfcamp because its a significant piece of business for us.
That Wattenberg is a good analogy can you remind us like how much capital you invested in Wattenberg as you built out the capacity to hit the numbers youre at now and would that be similar amount of capacity for the Delaware and obviously that could be future drops to your MLP but dont have to go there yet? David I dont have the exact number for the Wattenberg number.
I think you can probably look back through the west filings and figure out what kind of how you those have on and is a good proxy for the amount of infrastructure you need that.
The exception is we will work on each element of this and it will take us a couple of years.
This is another situation where this field is just -- it is big it is high rate stuff so were going to get in points where we tight like were going to be here bit and then were going to be -- we dont have a lot of a running room for awhile.
So it will be a very similar analogy to Wattenberg.
Al just one quick question on the other topic that weve been getting a lot of interest around it is the minerals and royalty control and ownership and the value of that and you all have done in the past around portfolio management I want to give the opportunity just for you to talk about how you think about the value of that revenue stream and the growth around it? David thank you I appreciate the question.
I am going to actually turn it over to Bob Gwin and let him address that because hes the one who has been working most diligently on it.
David yes you guys have seen the number we put out some numbers a few weeks ago updated them last night.
Obviously the royalty steam is growing but I think its important to understand that that royalty steam is not homogenous.
We gave a little bit detail around it.
There are hard minerals that growing a little bit but obviously the land grant stuff around Wattenberg given the tremendous growth that were seeing in the Wattenberg has much higher growth curve associated with it.
So if you annualize that first half number that we put out last night $385 million we start to look at something in that $770 million range versus the last year number that was a little bit smaller.
It gives you a feeling of the overall growth rate.
And were spending a lot of time right now looking at those different cash flow streams understanding different ways we might accelerate value associated with them and thats something that we want to take our time in doing.
We have been working on it for awhile.
We thought that it was important to get the information out to the streets so that everyone from a transparency standpoint everybody understood kind of the scope and scale of what were looking at.
And how we proceed with it is to be determined and something we will be talking about with everyone in the future but I think its not necessarily a one-size fits all approach for the entire cash flow stream because as I mentioned theyre not homogenous.
Good morning gents.
Al given those results we dont blame you webmaster for putting out the results a little bit ahead of 4 PM but my attempt at In this technologically driven world we are part of Arun and sometimes things just happen and it was unfortunate well make sure that it never happens again.
But anyways I will move on real quick.
I did want to talk about if you could go through kind of the sequential improvement at Wattenberg I think you grew 39 000 BOEs a day could you just break that into the different buckets clearly Lancaster was a driver but I just wanted if you could walk through that sequential improvement in volumes? Yes Arun this is Chuck.
Theres really three buckets that we can put it into its -- the first one is there was a lot of pent up capacity that we had built through the last few quarters that were waiting on the compression and then Lancaster to come to play.
And its in the order of about a third of it.
And then once Lancaster got on we were able to move those volumes through the system we have an NGL with Lancaster its a high capacity plant it has fantastic recoveries its been running really well.
And it did something for us that we couldnt really quantify if you take a look at Wattenberg the way the infrastructure was laid out back several years ago the old plan was actually way south to the field so when we put Lancaster right in the middle there we completely changed the flow dynamics of the field.
And that unloaded the field and that was part of that quote as well.
And so about a third of it is associated with just the improved flow dynamics that materially reduced our line pressure so weve given the wells the capacity to flow weve improved the flow the flow characteristics once we got on flow and then we had better recoveries at the plant so each of those were in the order of a third in the uplift.
Chuck your peers up north have also added some infrastructure when you think about the O'Connor plant et cetera.
is there something unique about your midstream set up which is allowing you to deal with the line pressures perhaps a little bit better than up north just looking at recent history? I am not real familiar with all they are doing how they are operating I know that we -- it took us awhile and we made some big moves to get ahead of ourselves on the midstream sense.
So we had available flow capacity.
So we build this big 300 million a day plant and we added a lot of compressions.
And I think the other advantage that might have that I am not certain how big of advantage it is but the trade with Noble we really quote up and so our wells we have the capacity to really optimize our field flows.
And with the highest oil cut wells the lowest GORs we can work ourselves up and with the advantage of west and owning the infrastructure a combination of optimizing our flows and optimizing the midstream gives you a lot of flexibility to whatever the market conditions are whatever the export conditions are we can take fullest advantage of it because we sort of have the entire input to it.
So its been a great position I am really proud of the fact that years ago we went in and we got the midstream position into Anadarko then we bought the Wattenberg plant we have made a critical investments in compression and additional processing and weve changed the whole dynamic by repositioning the plant to take full advantage of all that infrastructure.
So its been a great story for us.
And we have talked about that Coral Spring I think you are just feeling it right now.
Okay.
Arun this is Al if I can just add real quickly to that.
And I am going to sound overtly braggadocios and I want to apologize for it.
But I think this really does underscore the difference in owning and actually being in charge of your infrastructure and being able to handle managing your growth by having a midstream organization that is synced up with the upstream.
And I am not sure that always gets through light of day but I think this quarter is a great quarter to highlight just exactly how important that is and how differentiating that is for us.
Clearly that was the case in recent history.
Just about a follow-up would be to Bob Gwin I know youre evaluating your minerals position just a quick question I know in 2004 you guys did a forward sale of minerals so it has forward sales have been in your DNA how do the rating agencies Bob look at forward sales things such as minerals they would look it as debt? No they did not in the past when we did that deal back in 2004 thats now matured.
And I guess the way we look at forward sales as an option going forward that it has a certain implied multiples associated with it and certain of the other structures have implied multiple associate with them and multiples are often closely linked to growth rates.
And so when we look at the forward sales I think like any sale of any asset rating agencies are going to consider the effect on the overall portfolio and so one of the things were trying to do is to look at a balanced approach that considers sales along with potential other vehicles that could help us to prescribe a much more significant multiple to the cash flow stream that is embedded in Anadarkos existing trading multiple.
I think weve made pretty good decisions in the past and well do the right thing at the right time going forward to try to maximize the value and then be in a position to redeploy proceeds as effectively as possible.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Just a quick question from me in regards to the Eagle Ford you guys had another great quarter here in terms of growth and I know it doesnt maybe get as much air times the Niobrara in the Delaware Basin recently.
But just curious industry continues to push the envelope in terms of completion innovation in the play with higher stage density and more top end.
And I was wondering if you could remind us kind of where your current completions are in the Basin? And then any opportunity set to increase either propane or the number of stages going forward and maybe some of the impacts that may have on kind of the productivity here?  This is Chuck again thanks for pointing out the growth of Maverick I hope everybody saw the 47% year-over-year growth which is quite an asset particularly when you think about 67 000 barrels a day and that production nearly 200 000 barrels a day gross production so this thing is really taking off the guys down there have done a fantastic job and were really proud.
And part of it has been our completion efficiency that has given us that better amount of production.
We actually continue to test a lot of different variables there.
If you recall back at our conference this spring we put a graph in there that showed how were trying to optimize density fracs and AUR or value.
And thats the same work were doing better than Maverick.
We intended to tighten up our clusters and we intended to pump more sand.
Water is an expensive commodity down there so you really have to optimize around it.
And we have a lot of recycling efforts that are going on to continue to cut that cost down.
But effectively it looks like bigger is better to a point down there.
Our least position allows us to drill long and long laterals so weve been pushing those out.
And the combination of these longer laterals higher density fracs but better fracs we think and we push more into the old window have just continued to push our liquid growth up and really deliver some really high quality economics down in the Eagle Ford.
Al and Bob I am sorry for beating on this royalty issue but I wonder if I could just ask you to help frame a little bit more this whole process of yours.
You have given us the breakdown obviously youve got a lot of strategic I guess benefits from being involved in some of these areas where third party operators are perhaps leading the exploration.
I am thinking of Wyoming for example you get a good idea of that all process.
But is it more likely that we should frame the hard rock minerals as a potential monetization vehicle or would you encourage us to think that it really could be much more material than not as it goes to the oil and gas as well? Doug were really not in a position today to answer that question because what Bob is trying to do and doing a pretty good job of is not just isolating what he thinks maybe one or two opportunities but rather what is the full birth of what the opportunities that looks like and then whats most optimal for us.
He has done a really good job so far with the land which he and others have monetized things in our portfolio.
I think Western Gas is a clear success story associated with that.
But exactly what were going to do is its still early.
I think the important thing for us at this juncture is to give you and others are very clear sight of understanding around what the opportunities look like the medium by which its still indeterminable for us.
And probably well be provided some time in the near future.
Thanks for the answer.
I dont know if I could just take out one other quick one.
This is an exploration question and in specific to the result in Coronado.
I wonder if I dont know problems on the line but if you could give us some help understanding any implications for the wider Shenandoah you know connectivity features I guess and any update on how you might see plans for that asset as we go forward and I'll leave it there? Yes Doug on Coronado if you remember the most recent appraisal well was to test the Miocene objective and the Miocene was something we found in the initial well a little over 300 and some feet or bit oil and good reservoirs and of course we have the lower tertiary discovery there too which was what we announced.
We kept the Miocene quiet because of some lease sales coming up that we thought we want to have some competitive info on.
We presently put that position together.
We are now with the Coronado 3 to test the concept of expanding the Miocene and we went to the south and east and we actually didnt find this sand at all.
And so weve taken that data rolled it back into our seismic interpretation.
We got some new seismic processing in there and what it looks like its actually we have to go the other direction to the West.
And so were working net whether or not we want to do that has or next activity or drilling other above tertiary appraisal well in there.
We have plans right now to be back at Coronado because we will be the operator now back in Colorado after all Shenandoah appraisal.
So we are still incorporating all the information in but thats where we sit right now.
Maybe following upon the deepwater Gulf of Mexico question realizing that not all drilling results are kind of created equally can you walk through before that you shared with us Coronado Deep Nansen Bimini and K2 and what the learnings or takeaways were from those at least on the surface in non-commercial? Okay this is Bob again David.
Ill start with Bimini.
Bimini is a dry hole.
We looked for a Conger lookalike structure there.
Miocene sands up against salt in the throughway position didnt find the sands on the trapping configuration pretty much contained in that area or their prospect.
The area is obviously very good with Conger and ball plate and power play out there.
When you get into the others as I mentioned with Coronado what we found there the deep mantle is a very interesting one and that we are looking for a lower tertiary objective over in the Nansen Boomvang area.
Thats very well removed into the north and west of where industry has been playing a lower tertiary.
So its quite a step out in fairly high risked both reservoir presence and reservoir quality and then what the petroleum system would look like.
The results of the well are actually fairly encouraging for the area.
We have a significant acreage position out there.
And we have additional prospectivity and were trying to incorporate what we learned on the deep Nansen test into those perfect to see how it impacts the risk.
But basically we found evidence of the working petroleum system and there would be a liquids petroleum system which was a very positive thing.
We found some very good reservoir back there which was not necessarily whatever we would have anticipated.
But we found some very high quality reservoirs which is very encouraging for the area.
What we didnt have was a good seal and it looked like we blew the seal at Nansen and thats what led to the hydrocarbons being trapped in the shallow horizon soft Nansen at Boomvang.
So were rolling all that information in and see where it takes us on the follow-on potential.
But as I said we got a significant acreage position out there that we can look at.
The other Wells all right K2 the tail.
The K2 tail was really -- I will let Jim talk about what K2 well was because the primary thing there was to drill a development well and it was very-very encouraging.
The tail was put onto just test lower tertiary underneath existing infrastructure.
It was unsuccessful again looks like it was a breach trap and probably thats why we have the hydrocarbons in the shallow objective.
With that Ill let Jim talk about what the well actually found.
As Bob mentioned the K2 well was primary targeted with the Middle-Miocene and were excited about the results.
We found better than expected total net pay in the Mid-Miocene section and we also targeted the one interval which was secondary interval for coring to do further work on porosity and permeability relationships.
Weve seen some interesting information on that.
The plans for this well as Bob mentioned we did an expensive tail end to the Wilcox will allow us to further gain information in that areas but more importantly will come back sidetrack that well later this year and complete in the Mid-Miocene intervals and have that well on production.
So again the results were positive and the Miocene were excited about the development in the future.
Great.
I appreciate this clarification maybe jumping over to Laramie County for a moment where you guys are going to be doing 70 wells or as 40 more for the balance of the year here can you talk a little bit about the economics of that at this junction specially given the mineral interest that you own there and kind of how that sets up going forward for you from a comparative basis versus economics in other area? Dave this is Chuck.
We put in a pretty good program.
We are working up there with EOG is the operator in most of the area and they have been drilling Niall and Codell wells very similar to our Wattenberg targets.
They have had really good success and were the partners with them.
We are in because of our mineral position associated with the land grant.
Few of the wells have much time on them with the little early to say its going to deliver X or Y top of economics but the early returns look good.
Weve got some nice rates.
They seem to be holding up.
They have half flow in pressures.
And what were going to do is its a township but so large that theyre currently working in right in the land grant.
And so were going to continue to participate in the wells because since that we have with the early returns as theyre going to be extraordinarily economic comparable to our Wattenberg economics not the size of resources that we see.
Because of the mineral interest benefit they have just fantastic economics at least in the early stages.
If you think about maybe by next year well have 180 plus days of production on some of these wells or maybe even little more than that we can give you some real good EUR information and tighten up the economics.
But now I would assume theyre pretty close to Wattenberg economics.
Great I certainly appreciate the clarifications great quarter guys.
Thanks most things have been asked.
With Lucius whats the volume ramp going to be I mean how quickly youre going to bring up the well? John this is Jim and were out visiting the Lucius part here weeks and I just want complement our team for taking that project to schedule on time and on cost.
They have done a fantastic job.
So what that will enable us to do is start initiation of hydrocarbons through the spar here early fourth quarter.
All of the main subsea and textures completed.
Theyve finalized oil and gas export rise or pull with pressure testing and theyre going through the final stages of commissioning on the top side.
So were on target to start initiating hydrocarbon through facility early fourth quarter.
Okay thanks next one with the one in the Cote d'Ivoire how long that is like 90 day well for pay on? John this is Bob Daniels.
Weve got three wells were going to drill in Cote d'Ivoire.
First one is going to be an exploratory well Camaro and then were going to go Palm drill the appraisal and then weve got another exploratory well.
Each of those are probably going to be 75 day wells we will see weve had some very drilling performance here recently in Liberia and so if we get that kind of performance we might cut some days off.
But right now thats about what theyre scheduled for.
Okay thanks.
Last one for me is on the Marcellus.
You guys seemed to be the adults in the room youre not adding rate have you been looking any other ways to evacuate gas from the basin in terms of other infrastructure or you just going to wait until things tighten up? So John thanks for the complement.
We are looking at additional way as you know there are several other large infrastructure programs coming out of the more sellers and weve signed up a bit of firm participation.
Our firm space on each of those that are coming out of the North Eastern portion of the basin.
So we continue to watch the situation carefully maintain our leases and try not to add to the problems.
So I anticipate that as each one of these large infrastructure project is come on particular in the next couple of years though fill up really fast just with the capacity of the basin.
And in the two to three year timeframe youll start to see things normalize and hopefully thats when we had economic will improve to the point that we would want to go really executing on our inventory which is pretty significant out there.
Hi.
Question on Mozambique one would be high level where -- could you give us some color on where the project is.
And the second is how do we think about the CapEx profile in the next say handful of quarters couple of years? Okay.
Bob this is Al.
Thank you for the question.
As you might have -- theres a lot of above ground issues that were dealing with right.
And I think Ill have Jim walk you through where we are on some of those.
And for an exploration standpoint its probably best that Bob address some of the questions and they are associated with that as we are kind of moving from the exploration to the development stage and our formulation of our plan of development.
So things in general are moving in a good path but last progress being made on the things that we need to see above ground so with that this sort of introductory and framing.
Jim will handle the first part of the question.
And then come back and handle the exploration component with Bob and if I could Ill have Bob Gwin finish up the CapEx portion.
Thanks Al.
We have many steps towards moving in the direction of taking FID and some of those steps that have completed or securing all the necessary access to land we have 27 square miles blend and secured for the LNG part with all of the appropriate engineering studies and soil studies on that.
Weve also advanced the competitive feeds both on the onshore and the offshore so were evaluating those feeds and moving towards selecting contractors towards the end of this year.
Weve also received approval on the environmental impact assessment and including all of the public concentrations so thats moved positively.
Were also advancing the engineering pioneer construction early works just on the planning phases for the marine facilities airport infrastructure necessary to move the project forward.
So were seeing a good advance in the hard side of the project which is the planning and the engineering.
And the marketing teams will also move very strongly.
Weve got 6 million tons per annum of premium Asian market secured a non-binding HOAs and that being said the space of this project will really be dictated by the speed of which the government can deliver what we team has contractual fiscal legal stability through enabling language which in the three law which is currently been discussed and followed.
Weve got this port to the President of the Minister and the Council Administers and act that enabling language and we look forward to following session and hearing the next few weeks so were getting clarification of what that looks like.
And Bob on the exploration side going very well over there last year we had a significant discovery with Orca and thats added to our resource range.
Weve been appraising that we have drilled the Orca before.
Well this year we also have been doing additional exploration because our exploration term expires early next year and we want to make sure that weve fully evaluated the block.
We earlier drilled Tubarao Tigre which was a Paleocene discovery that was our objective down there.
It looks like it could be fairly significant.
So as we move into next year we have the potential to need some appraisal work done there and were presently drilling an exploratory well called Ourico Do Mar which has a Eocene and Paleocene objectives we just our about mid way on that so too early to say anything.
But again with the success there that may lead to the need for some appraisal work on it in the following years.
But right now everything in Mozambique from a drilling perspective is going extremely well.
And then from a capital perspective I want to first point to the sale down that we did that we close earlier this year the after tax proceeds there about $2.1 billion.
Historically we had spent around $1 billion and so weve recaptured our historic capital investment and then add about an extra billion one or so to continue to deploying the projects.
So by selling down about 30% of our prior interest weve reduced our capital burden and we have received the cash that we need for the equity funding component to rough first production with the balance to be covered by sensibly right project financings.
So the capital burden is not big relative to a company Anadarko size but we feel were a bit immunized against it weve de-risk the project and it doesnt therefore take away from our ability to use our capital on our short cycle projects growing onshore in the U.S.
or developing our global exploration development program.
Bob Ill just finish up this is Al with one last comment.
I think you have heard us many many times talk about our interest in trying to monetize things that we bring forward some of our longer cycle spinning to bring the value of that forward in the form of cash or in the form of carries that are more tax efficient in the U.S.
And Ill just continue to emphasize where we can and when we can we see and recognize the value and bring forward those values in ways that is necessarily is much creative is just they make good capital efficiency sense.
And I think thats something that we do quite well as a company I am very proud of it and have done it for a long time.
And you should continue to expect that the way in which well think about running the railroads.
Al going back to the earlier questions on Colorado I was expecting a different Churchill quote from you maybe another one where you said you can always count on the Americans to the right thing after they have exhausted all the other alternatives.
Ill have to put that on my Churchill quotes to remember for Colorado.
It might be too optimistic but it depends on how many alternatives you think there are suppose.
But being serious about Colorado for a moment here one of your big competitors or industry partners out there in the DJ recently talked about moving or actually recently talked about doing their first couple of plug and perf completions and had some really good results there.
And as I appreciate some of the smaller operators are experimenting with the plug and perf versus I guess the incumbent kind of completion technology is sliding sleeves.
And so can you give us a sense of where you are on your mix on -- what percentage of your completions are plug and perf sliding sleeve and in what direction you might be going? Sure you bet and there is nobody better to answer that question specifically than Chuck.
I am going to brag on Chuck and his leadership because one of the things we do is we try to use what we learn from each of these shale plays and apply them to other ones.
And one of the reasons weve been so effective if you hear recently in the Wattenberg as weve taken the learning from the Eagle Ford and other places where weve had success but lot of learnings from the Eagle Ford were applied to the Wattenberg because Chuck creates such a great environment for that exchange to occur between these groups and people certainly have the right incentive to share those.
And so even for a company as large as our we dont get into the towers of knowledge and dont share it.
And its easy to say and hard to do but is really one of the true values of which there are many that Chuck brings to the table.
Charles the situation on Wattenberg is we actually use both circumstances dictate where we use which completion technique they both have proven effective in various applications and were going to continue to experiment with both and try to get the best out of both for quite some time.
I think the plug and perf were for quite some time now and it certainly has its applications it has a little tighter precision with regard to where you pump the fracs and that type of thing.
But we both have great applications both are seeing great results and we will continue to use both.
And then shifting over to the international front I know the two guys have I believe doubled your position in Columbia and you are setting up for a couple of exploratory wells in 2015.
I know it might be a little bit far off to do so now but I wonder perhaps Bob if you could give us a sense of what those targets are going to be like and whether that can be first half of 15 or back half of 15 and anything else that you think is important for us to understand about that? We like what we are in Columbia.
I think that was evidenced by our bids in the most recent big round picking up another 8 million acres.
And right now we have a total of about 16 million acres in offshore Columbia deepwater and what drove that was we acquired a large 3D in the southern portion where we would be drilling our wells last year.
And then we acquired 2D up in our Coral 2 block and based on what were seeing on that data and some very-very sparse regional there that led us to say there is a lot more potential here than perhaps industry would realize because we had the proprietary data.
And we identified where that was and went after it and we are very pleased to be able to lock up those three blocks.
Our plans for drilling that would be starting in the first quarter probably 2015 where we bring in rig from West Africa.
That one is going to finish up in Cote d'Ivoire block.
And to start the drilling activity we have got two wells formally planned for the next year.
And then with success additional drilling weve got permits working through that would allow us to continue to do what there in Columbia.
The potential that we see there is I would say from a sentimental logical and structural standpoint very similar to what we saw in Mozambique when we first went in.
Its a linked extensional compression oil system.
Its a massive sand systems coming in from the DELTEX.
Big deepwater fans that are fairly evident on the seismic data and are very-very strong evidence of working petroleum system and in fact we think it should be a liquid dominated petroleum system because of the La Luna source rock that is present in Columbia and in the upward areas and the thermal regime that we are encountering out there so a lot of positives going forward.
It is a frontier exploration area that everything that we have seen first we would like to have more of it and we are able to control three more very significant blocks out there.
Youve talked a 5% to 7% multi-year production CAGR but you praised your guidance twice this year.
Youve highlighted Lucius and Heidelberg is coming on over the next couple of years.
Just to put this into context are the strong results that have driven the guidance increases here more quarterly noise because of the timing of unlocking midstream connectivity or is there a well performance driven improvement such as what Chuck was referencing a couple of times on the call that should push us and yourself to a higher range than 5% to 7%? Brian the short answer -- the really short answer here is yes to both questions.
I think if you go back to a year ago we started highlighting on the call on our second quarter of last year some of the infrastructure issues we were dealing with was land pressures and talked it in length about what we were trying to do to alleviate those.
And I would like to see that even with whether it is 100 year or a 1 000 year flood we still overcame the weather issues that occurred later in the third quarter associated with just how we get everything working so well in the Wattenberg.
Our group in Denver thats managed through the catastrophe as well as being able to handle all the technical issues we are getting in the Wattenberg where it is today is just a phenomenal job.
But frankly they did the job that if you are thinking back a year ago Chuck previewed for you that we were going through the expecting and while we were going through that time they refer it to as a growing pain.
And when youre managing and earning and controlling your infrastructure you do have the ability to do some things that others dont.
And I today we are seeing the benefit of that and thats why I can answer yes for both questions.
We are seeing great well performance and we are seeing tremendous midstream performance.
Does that then put you more toward the upper end of the range than or its the 5% to 7% still a good way to think about things? I think one of the things you recall we do every year particularly in the second quarter but mostly in the third quarter is pretty healthy amount of weather downtime into our views and so you got to keep in mind some of our views around what were doing in the second half of the year and a little bit of weather is there.
Cash flow growth most likely which is most important to me.
I think you can see cash flow growth above that threshold of 5% to 7% and that probably would be my preferred way to answer.
And then shifting to Permian Basin you mentioned that youre going to be doing a bit more work on the upper and lower Wolfcamp B Benches.
Can you talk about the characteristics that you see there what your thesis and how that may or may not vary across your position?  Brian this is Chuck.
Today we primarily focused on the upper A bench we call it the beta.
And its done a fantastic job for us.
And then as we look at petro physical properties of the other benches in area which is lower A and upper B and the lower B.
they all have had similar characteristics they are not quite as extensive across the position they vary in thickness and water saturation that kind of thing but they all seem to be perspective and weve started our testing procedure we actually have successful wells in most of them and some of our neighbors have successful wells and those that we dont.
So were starting to feel pretty good about the general prospectively of the area and well be working a larger percentage of our program going forward into those other benches to really get full view of how the field should be developed.
And Ill remind you that we have about 600 000 acres out in the Delaware Basin for the punching the basin spine.
So were very fortunate to be in a position where we have lot of information coming in there is lot of industry activity around this.
So I think well walk through this delineation program fairly quickly.
Just given the amount of information well generate and what well get from others and we participate in some of those wells as well.
So my sense is that those benches are fairly perspective maybe not quite as expensive but still very perspective and the early returns look positive for us.
So I am really excited about it its a big field.
Brian this is Al Ill add to that in addition to what were seeing from well performance which is just very much in its early days and I know you know this but were sort of slow to talk about things till we see well performance and consequently dont want to get ahead of ourselves with what our expectations are until we have more of that in hand.
But as weve done another places were already at midstream solutions to a lot of this volume thats going to find a home and be evacuated and the ability again to have that midstream component with upstream as we have it and the success we historically have with Western Gas and what were doing here feeds right into what we believe is in the fair way of what Western Gas does well.
I think you should expect that these things are being worked pretty hard because we do see as Chuck mentioned tremendous opportunity here solving that through midstream solutions through our midstream group in conjunction with what were seeing from an upstream perspective will again be pretty differentiating.
And just one quick question in Laramie County Chuck you certainly had sounded enthusiastic of with what youve seen.
At what point do you guys step in to do some operator activity.
You need to see a little bit more of that non-op stuff come through or do you feel pretty confident right now where you can start putting on rigs to work.
Scott its a good question.
We have large positions surrounding this area through the land grant.
So we have a lot of optionality and were preparing to operate some additional wells around it as the delineation program expands outward were not going to jump ahead of it and trying to taking unnecessary risk when its coming to orders.
That land grant position as you know we hold it forever so were in a great spot to watch and learn and as soon as the information dictates that we should move forward we will.
How is the infrastructure relative to some of the other places is it pretty tight there where it doesnt make sense to get too fast right now? Well there is some challenges like there are many areas I think one of the things well be working on as a good guess of acquisition plan and trying to leverage our position either up and Eastern Wyoming or back down into Colorado.
To bother you again with the royalty question but could you breakdown perhaps the upstream revenue between op and non-op or give some color there? Its not a number that were comfortable sharing publicly to this stage there is a material amount of non-op revenue currently with high-quality operators.
And as you know especially when you look to the land grant acreage in the Wattenberg field weve got a very material operating position there itself.
In the Southern Region its a mixture.
In the Gulf of Mexico its largely non-op today but from overall perspective trying to keep that number quiet for now as we put together the information and decide what is appropriate to share in the future when were able to discuss more specific plans and the characterization of the cash flow around those plans.
So I am on the right path here.
As part of the challenge it is fair to say is to sort of have more certainty on the volumetric change in the royalties versus just being a price vehicle? Its partially that I think the key is -- were ever not going to be quite around this its just that we feel that its important to do the homework and to decide to what these vehicles or these approaches that we might take with look like before we talk specifically around characterizing the cash flows and operator ship around those cash flow.
We continue to work the land grant acreage in particular pretty aggressively.
Its evident by some of the things talked about today on the call.
We are doing farms out.
We are doing acreage drop.
We are doing lots of things that will affect the future cash flow growth of our mineral interest.
Most of things that my groups were focused on right is the cash flow stream and the existing cash flow stream the existing lease hold interest that and ways that we can maximize the value to Anadarko in the short term in some cases and in the long term another cases.
We did that with MLP with Western Gas.
We took a long-term view IPOed it 2008.
IPO the GP then at the end of the 2012 and built many billions of dollars of long-term value.
There were different ways we could have approach that back in 2007 and weve taken approach that as I mentioned earlier I think in hindsight reflects well and decisions we made.
And were just trying to make sure that we take a measured and highly analytical approach to how this affects Anadarkos broader portfolio and business over a longer period of time.
Yes really exciting potential you have.
One thing Id like to add.
Subash I just want to add to what Bob said that is as we look at our investment alternatives that royalty stream certainly plays into those decisions.
Thats a significant value accretion to this and so we take that into account and it certainly plays as part of the decision.
And when you look through the Rocky and where the activity is the land grant is featured pretty heavily and not just Wattenberg or Laramie County but the Power River Basin and even out in west as you go through Wamsutter and Moxa continue west.
So there is a lot activity on it and we try to encourage additional activity on it.
There is small farm out and drilling programs that will continue to add to that equation.
So its right in center in mind and I think thats a good thing for the long term with the growth of that profile.
And final one for me if I can I know its getting.
But in the Delaware Basin when you look at the zones that youre completing in can you talk to maybe the shale composition there versus the more traditional shale plays obviously Eagle Ford and Marcellus et cetera that youre involved in? I dont have all those mineral compositions in front of me but it is comparable shale to the midland basin Wolfcamp as well.
And lot of the learnings as Al mentioned earlier that weve seen in Wattenberg and Africa as weve started approaching the appraisal program in the Wolfcamp where we used direct learnings to get a long way down the road quickly.
And I look at this thing -- even after two or three wells we saw this is something that would be really exciting for us.
And the further weve got into weve done optimization with completions and that type of things.
I thing the key issue right here that we see is if you look at the price it is significant on the per section basis.
We talked about it in the conference call at Investor Conference call earlier this year.
There is 100 million barrels per section in place.
And so this is a thick organically rich oil saturated shale and it clearly has good flow characteristics when properly stimulated and it has three or four benches where you can access that big thick column and so were going to work hard on optimizing it.
And working our recipe to make sure that were getting the maximum out of it and does that price are significant and we want all of it when we get.
Sure.
Great job so far.
And finally sorry -- just on the hurricane outlook this summer usually you build a buffer I think you talk to it a little bit in response to Brian question could you -- is there way to be more specific? Are building a similar type buffer for the hurricane season in this years guidance? Yes.
Subash it is called glacier as always we provide a risk operating profile that takes in the account whether downtime as well as non-facility downtime to run the upcoming quarter thats probably the best we can give you.
So were rather late just a question on your outlook for the U.S.
crude market lot of moving pieces you yourselves are creating a lot of supply growth and others are as well just curious what your latest thoughts are on sort of longer term dynamics? And the impact that could have on price realizations and alongside that perhaps a comments on any opportunities you see on taking advantages of some of the recent ruling your decisions out of commerce departments on exports for condensate? So this is Scott Moore Joe.
Thanks for the question.
Id say our early outlook particular like the international benchmark for Brent remains strong market is tight their capacity is low supplier outages are pretty strong the 3 million barrels a day and demand growth is returning to long term trends.
Question then of differential to Brent for TI and LLS relatively we have pretty good realization to ultimately stable to LLS as far as exports and the opportunities there I think the key for us is that Eagle Ford is a common say to what people are really discussing and for us we have a light oil thats sold at a modest discounts to LLS for quality under long term contracts so were not really experience some of this economic pressure for contract discounting that drives the export demand from our other producers.
So wed be a secondary beneficiary that with support of other should it happen but we dont require from that backs to be strong.
Thanks Joe.
And for those of you who are still on the call we didnt get to I apologies were sense its a fact theres other calls going on today and you guys and your times very much in demand.
I do want to say thank you again for the comment and questions this morning.
We thought we had and believe we had just an exceptional quarter in the second half of the year is really shaping up to be every business expiring as the one quarter we have just finished here in the first half of the year as well.
Its been a great quarters.
Its been a great first half of the year.
The employees of Anadarko are very proud of what weve been able to achieve for our shareholders.
And we look forward to doing that again in the future.
And for everyone on the call have a good day and safe travels.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Lorie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter APC Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today John Colglazier please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lorie.
Good morning everyone.
We are glad you could join us today for Anadarko's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
I would like to remind you that todays presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
I encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last nights earnings release.
Now I will turn the call over to Al Walker.
Following his remarks we will open it up for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
I am proud to say Anadarko delivered another strong performance in the third quarter highlighted in particular by record production despite not realizing a scheduled tanker lifting in Algeria and we delivered a 20% increase in our year-over-year liquids composition achieved by growing more than 110 barrels of liquids per day on a divestiture adjusted basis which is a remarkable accomplishment for a company today that produces almost 850 000 BOE per day.
Outstanding performance in the Wattenberg field continues to be a tremendous value driver for our company and a major growth engine for the U.S.
on-shore business.
The results of our horizontal drilling program and the investments we have made in the DJ Basin to expand our midstream assets in that region enabled us to grow liquid volumes by 20 000 barrels per day sequentially.
We have talked about in the past the importance of controlling our wellhead results through aggressive midstream management.
Results from this quarter in the Wattenberg field once again put an exclamation point on this cornerstone difference for Anadarko.
We expect the Wattenberg field to generate more than $500 million of free cash flow this year while demonstrating exceptional growth in the years to come.
Turning to the Wolfcamp Shale we have expanded our highly successful delineation program which continues to deliver very encouraging results outside our high confident area.
Two great examples of these successes are our recent Medicine Bow and [Car Wells] which are about 50 miles apart and reported exceptional 30-day IPs of approximate 1 300 and 1 700 BOE per day respectively.
As announced last night our midstream MLP Western Gas acquired key infrastructure strategically located in the heart of the Delaware Basin consistent with the successful approach in the DJ I have mentioned moments ago this investment significantly expands our midstream capacity to facilitate our future production growth and control product delivery to the most attractive markets.
We believe our Wolfcamp acreage is situated in the best part of the basin and with this strategic acquisition coupled with the excellent joint results we are building a competitive advantage and doing it with another major resource development.
We look forward to discussing the Wolfcamp resource opportunity our plans infrastructure expansion in much more detail when we hold our investor conference next March.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we expect to achieve first oil of our Lucius part in the coming weeks.
Next we anticipate nearing the success of Lucius with its 80 000 barrel of oil per day twin Heidelberg.
The Heidelberg spar [arrive] facility in Ingleside Texas after sailing from the fabrication yard in Finland and we look forward to achieving first oil there in 2016.
In Mozambique we continue to work to advance our operated LNG project and have made significant progress to-date including securing the land for the LNG Park being in a position to select EPC contractors later this year engineering and construction planning for early works achieving approval of the environmental impact assessment obtaining reserves certifications reaching non-binding HOAs from multiple Asian LNG buyers for about 7 million tons per annum and letters of intent for our project financing.
We are also pleased with the assembly of Mozambique past enabling legislation during the quarter.
This clears the way for the Decree Law.
The Decree Law is critical to establish the legal governmental and contractual support for our LNG project.
Ratification of an acceptable Decree Law will enable Anadarko and our partners to pursue investment in the country as planned and sets the stage for submission for plant development to the government 2015.
Something we believe will enhance the laws and the well-being of people of Mozambique for decades to come.
The progress of this project towards first cargos is largely dependent upon an acceptable Decree Law and we look forward to the government of Mozambique delivering this by year end as it has indicated it will do.
These are just a few of the operating achievements and highlights for this quarter.
I encourage you to review the third quarter ops report available on our website for more highlights and details about our performance.
During the quarter as you probably know this we significantly strengthened the balance sheet ending with approximately $8.3 billion of cash on hand bolstered primarily by our ongoing portfolio management activities.
To achieve this we closed or announced the monetization of more than $2.2 billion in assets having little impact on current production reserves.
Anadarko continues to be the most active portfolio manager among our peers and we do this to achieve a better asset mix for future success and stock price performance.
As our track record demonstrates you can expect us to continue pursuing and evaluating opportunities to bring forward this for our shareholders.
In closing we view the current environment as an opportunity for Anadarko to continue to distinguish itself to our deep bench of economic opportunities in our portfolio.
The talent of our people the strength of our financial operating capacity and our demonstrated commitment to actively managing our portfolio really does set us apart.
We believe we are one of only a few companies positioned to manage the near-term uncertainty in the commodity prices while achieving our long stated our long-term objectives with efficient capital allocation.
The employees of Anadarko are committed to differentiating success and I believe our track record for delivering this speaks for itself.
With that we are happy to take your questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of David Cameron of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Al can you talk about - I think you know where I am going with this but can you talk about 2015? How you think about capital allocation just given where the commodity price is kind of what that does to your longer-term thinking.
Can you just - I will just leave it that and give you some broad framework to work with but can you help me with that? Sure.
Well let us start with the fact we are an exploration company so I think you can anticipate when we rollout our capital plan in March we will continue to be very involved in exploration which gives us option value for the future.
The current commodity price environment is going to have little to no impact on what we see over the next four to five years for things that we would be involved within '15 with our exploration plan.
Let's just start with that.
If you move down from there I think our current view on commodity prices is we want to watch this environment a little longer.
I think we all are recognizing that there is a very steep decline we have seen.
The market has most peoples' estimation not yet quite down the equilibrium and we don't know if that is going to be at a higher price than where the current curve looks like or something lower.
I think as it relates to allocation of capital in '15 David and our growth associated with that we are probably going to want to watch this for a few more months.
When we announce our capital plans in March we will have a much better idea of what we expect.
I think in the past we have been pretty consistent in saying that we want to try to grow through cash flow.
I think the ability to grow through cash flow and cash in this environment and not take on debt to be able to meet your needs makes our balance sheet and the way in which we run our company from a financial discipline perspective consistently unique.
I don't think we have varied from that for quite a while.
Having the kind of cash flow we anticipate with next year coupled with the cash even after paying out Tronox payment we are in pretty good shape to kind of do things next year like we have been doing in years past.
I do want to emphasize that we do see exploration as something that has a longer time horizon than the current price environment and the current forward curve for one year I suggest.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Then just as a follow-up.
Jumping to the Delaware can you - I don't know if you want to take this or whomever but can you talk about expanding your high confidence area.
Maybe I missed in your prepared remarks but last quarter there was a number on the ops report.
Can you talk about where that's at today? I think before you had said 20% or 25%.
Yes.
This is Chuck David.
Our delineation program out in the Delaware has continued to show some really exciting results.
Al mentioned a couple a couple of the wells.
Those wells are about 50 miles apart from Northwest to Southeast across the core of the area so we anticipate expanding our high confidence area as we complete the delineation program here in next six months or so.
We have drilled a large number of wells outside of our high confidence area that we demonstrated last quarter so it's expanding.
We haven't really said how to what degree yet and we will do that in the March investor conference.
All right.
I will let somebody else jump in.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Al I wanted to start with value acceleration opportunities in the portfolio.
It sounds like you are evaluating a few of those.
I just wanted to see if you could talk about potential materiality.
You have been doing successful call it $500 million-type transactions but I wanted to see if any of these you think would be material in nature? Well I think the best way I can answer your question Arun is being an active portfolio managers is one of the planks of the platform for us.
We have been doing it as you know quite aggressively since 2006 it is something we have done every year since then.
I think you can anticipate we will continue to do more of it in the future.
I think one of the things that we try to do not everything that we look at in our portfolio is scalable so sometimes when we can't achieve scale with the line of business despite the fact that might like the margins associated with it becomes an allocation of capital question for us going forward.
Where we don't either have scalable lines of business or we have things that we believe that are not core we will continue to try to find the right mix of assets based upon what the commodities give us and based up on what the opportunities in our portfolio provide.
As you know quite well being able to feed on capital in our portfolio is a competitive situation.
If we don't have the wellhead margins and we don't have the returns we don't pursue capitalization of or capitalizing rather those funding.
I do think despite good efforts we will always find ourselves at times looking at line of business like we did in China and recognizing that wasn't scalable for us and despite very high-margin barrel there in Bohai Bay it was best that we exit and redeploy that future capital in something else as well as the capital we have been required in China to continue to maintain and develop that asset.
Okay.
Maybe a little bit of a follow-up Al.
How does some of the market volatility I know you are evaluating perhaps to do something with your minerals business which has a lot of value so I just wondered if the market volatility alters that type of the analysis.
I am going to let Bob Gwin address your question because he is the one who has working in that front the hard as with respect to the mineral.
We try to manage our allocation of capital not just in the 12-month forward view but rather what it does over a 5-year and 10-year cycle and how the short and long cycle investing really plays to our advantage.
I think in some of the areas where we are most active Wattenberg is an example obviously we make more money or have better returns on the price of oil per WTI is 100 than it is with 80 but we still have substantial rates of return there that really are not as sensitive there in terms of whether or not our activities are going to falloff.
That is an advantage I think that asset has for us in the way in which we have both the combination of mineral interest and the working interest and the way in which we just drill our wells.
I couldn't be more pleased with the capital efficiency by which we have days on location whether it is the Wattenberg Delaware or the Eagle Ford and how well that compares to industry.
As it relates to just mineral interest as I said I am going to Bob address where he is on that.
Yes.
Hi Arun.
Al touched on the Rockies here and that is that there is a lot of volatility in the commodity market that has led to a lot of volatility in the capital markets.
It has not changed our view or our timing on doing something but it has caused us to realize that as opposed say three to six months ago.
It is not always incredibly high multiples and anyone that think those types of multiples are permanent and sustained across commodity cycles hadn't been paying attention.
We continue to looking we put out a little bit more information on the on the size of the EBITDA associated with the mineral and the royalties in the ops report.
Obviously there are still some really nice growth in that asset.
It continues to increase in its intrinsic value all the time.
What we are trying to do is to make sure that any actions we take preserve the assets is a competitive advantage for Anadarko and put ourselves in position where we can leverage those cash flows into something that is more valuable if we choose to pursue a vehicle in the future.
Needless to say also I think if you looked at some of that historic data some of the EBITDA was relatively flat and more of an annuity and very static and other of it is growing very fast particularly in the areas where we have some rapid activity so we have got some flexibility rather we are continuing to study it continuing to look at it.
We know that its true value continues to increase as it grows over time and that what we end up doing with it in the future is going to be dependent upon how best drives value for Anadarko.
Certainly that will include a consideration of the potential changes in the capital and commodity markets over time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Arun.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly looking at the Eaglebine JV that you guys entered into can you give us a little bit more color on structure there and what that does with respect to thinking about how you develop that or ramping development of that in 2015.
Okay.
Chuck and I will tag team on that.
I think as you have heard us say many many times Dave that the power of using third-party capital where everything we do is not a function of why our balance sheet and cash flow by itself can allow for is one of the financial strengths that we try to bring.
Maybe I am a little bias with this but I think we are different in that regard.
We see the Eaglebine as an exciting and potentially really explosive area that we have been watching and being a participant in that for now by ourselves.
As we look at a portfolio that has lots of opportunities to feed capital towards we were to offered a very attractive option here from KKR to partner with us and that basically it just allows us to do with more than just our own capital.
Specifically to the play itself and what that means I will Chuck address that if I can.
As you might be aware and there is a pretty write-up in our quarterly operating report.
On Page 9 if you want to take a look at it.
The Eaglebine has been out there.
We have been working it for something in the order of a couple of years now.
Industry has been fairly active in it is really just the northern extension of Eagle Ford play up into Brazos and Burleson counties.
As we have legacy land position that was associated with Robertson joint development many years ago.
We have had some really good success drilling wells in the Eaglebine as has industry.
We are about 150 000 gross acre positioned around 90 000 acres net.
What we essentially did was deliver a 40% working interest to our JV partner in consideration for a carried drilling interest.
We envision that carry would last in the order of a couple of years and a rig run rate of around two to three rigs ongoing so you will see us begin to execute on the JV.
We are excited we are excited about our partner.
We think it could bring a lot to the table and we really feel good about our prospects of ginning this field up and seeing some meaningful production come out of it in the near future.
Dave I know you know this but I would just emphasize it.
This is one of many where we have done things that were very tax efficient so rather than outright sale being able to the carried interest with which this is structured is a very tax efficient way for us to think about our business.
Again something we consistently do.
David I would just like to finish on one other point.
I would just like to give a shout out to our team that put this together and all the folks that worked with it creating Anadarko.
There out many folks had a realization that our interest position in Eaglebine had a mark-to-market of around $1.1 billion so it's a fantastic piece of work to get these wells drilled the field delineated and the value recognized.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
I was just curious I guess more from a standpoint of would it lead to acceleration of activity there given that you have the carry and that obviously increases the returns in the short cycle cash flow nature of the assets but Yes.
Thank you.
I am sorry if I didn't make that clear.
Okay.
One last question just quickly in deepwater Gulf of Mexico with Yucatan well results can you talk about how that impacts your thoughts and outlook with respect to the Shenandoah Basin and overall size of the price.
This is Bob Dave.
Yucatan was drilled well down dip of the discovery well as an appraisal looking for where the oil-water contact would come in.
We did find pay in it and the oil-water contact flow successful from that standpoint.
We are now rolling it into our overall mapping and looking at what the volume metrics over Yucatn may be.
Then at Shenandoah we are on the Shenandoah #3 well which again is significantly down dip of Shenandoah 2 looking for the oil-water contact which we never encountered in the Shenandoah 2 appraisal well.
Once we have the Shenandoah down and with the Yucatn results we will start looking at what that overall development options may be out there and how we would aggregate these things together and what the overall resource range might be.
Shenandoah is going to be key in the always may not have a huge oil accumulation there.
It is real important to see what the reservoirs look like as we move across the field to make sure we have good continuity of reservoirs and that they are in pressure communication so we will be getting try to find the oil-water contact try to get good pressure data and we will be taking a sidewalk a whole core out of that well after we penetrate the lower part of the objective section so a lot of work still to do we are still excited about the Shenandoah Basin.
Shenandoah #3 is going to be a real key to us.
Great I appreciate the added color there guys.
Thanks so much.
Good work.
Yes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask question on the Permian Basin.
Given the success you have had with the midstream in wrapping up at Wattenberg clearly you are making a midstream acquisition in the Permian Basin.
I want to see if that's a real statement on your end as to where the Permian stands in your portfolio whether you see the Permian rivaling Wattenberg as it relate to two core areas within the on-shore portfolio and does that mean that though they are both base load opportunities for capital spending as opposed to variable when we think about volatility in commodity prices.
Well Brian Chuck and I will tag team on this as well.
If you think about what we did in the DJ Basin as we are in the early part of our horizontal drilling program there which really changed the way in which the field was developed by industry.
There we also made acquisitions both from BP and EnCana of processing and gathering systems to allow us to control our takeaway and make eventually and give us rather a better wellhead margins by better price realizations by taking that into Mont Belvieu and away from Conway for the NGLs.
It is a little bit of sort of chapter two in the same book as it relates to how we philosophically see the Delaware.
We talked a lot about and you have seen in our operating reports the result and I will have Chuck walk you through a little bit more granularity on that.
As you think about how you are going to develop that being able to make the acquisition that Western Gas did will enable Anadarko and Western Gas to be able to do something similar to what we did in the DJ basin for exactly the same reasons and it really does have tremendous rates of return associated with what we think will be a production profile coming out of the field over the next 5 to 10 years.
I will say if you compare the Wattenberg to the Delaware going negative as we produce some water which makes a little price sensitive than the Delaware does which has produced water but we did not make the infrastructure investment via Western Gas because we were not excited about it.
We felt like that was an extremely important part of way in which we developed the DJ.
Again it is just the same recipe that we used there for a little bit different asset but we want to make sure we controller our markets.
We want to make sure once we drill our wells they don't sit waiting on pipeline they don't have markets for us to flow into.
Most importantly flow into markets to give us the best price realization.
Philosophically we are looking at the Delaware the same way we did it the DJ in its early years of the horizontal program there but let me let Chuck give a little more color around what he is exactly seeing with the upstream activities and why that went so well with this midstream announcement of yesterday.
I think Al went through it pretty well Brian.
It's an exciting opportunity.
We are making a strategic move to position ourselves so that we can accelerate development and have the most efficient use of our cash and converting into production as quickly as we possibly can.
If you look at the footprint of those assets they are in the western portion of our land position.
That is an area that is fairly void of our midstream infrastructure rather than these wave of new assets so we can quickly incorporate them into our system and we can utilize them in a way that actually increases the utility of all the assets so we had to pull it out in the Delaware Basin and that is something that you we learned to do through the DJ Basin.
As Al mentioned is more of a playbook's as I see it.
We get a lot of top-flight talent that put on these assets little technically in the field.
Then with this large contiguous land position we have 600 000 acres spread over the three counties so the midstream footprint that we have now essentially covers those three counties so I think that will give us a lot of leverage it will give us a lot of early information because we can get these wells online quickly now.
We can loop the two systems together in a way that we can deliver gas to different compressor stations drilling stations processing stations and the most efficient way to move that gas much like we have in the DJ with the big loop around Lancaster.
Now it gets us in a position where in my view anywhere we can move a step closer to pushing the Delaware into sort of the quotations "manufacturing mode" which we sit there and we look at every element of opportunity to drive efficiency into the system.
Without that base infrastructure that is necessary and you have really seen it spades in the DJ.
We have seen the acceleration of that production.
I think in the third quarter of '13 we were producing 100 000 barrels a day.
This quarter we produced 189 000 barrels a day and there were a lot of reasons but I think the midstream infrastructure and our field folks utilizing it to optimize the parameters that we produce under have been just key to their success.
We are using that same playbook here.
As we looked at our position in Delaware and really looked at the various assets that were available we honed in on this one really quickly as being something we could leverage to shorten the time that we would need to take to build out that infrastructure so we can get even a jumpstart.
The results that we have seen in the Delaware today like we mentioned earlier the ramp that we have already seen the ramp we envision I just think this was a spectacular strategic move on our part and I think it is indicative of what we see in the future for the Delaware Basin.
Brian this is Al.
Let me just add one thing to Chuck's comment.
The price environment just looking at the forward curve of oil just whether it is right or wrong we know it's not going to be the same we are just using it as a placeholder.
It's real important we are efficient with what we do.
I mean it takes us about 17 days to drill a Wolfcamp well.
As you see data coming out of this part of the state with public information you will see that there are others that don't drill in 17 days.
They drill it in a lot more than that so your economic limit is a lot different when you are able to be on location fewer days and there is no one today that I am aware of in the Delaware drilling Wolfcamp that can do being on location for 17 days.
Chuck if you got anything you want to further add to that go ahead.
Yes.
17 days is our record and I think that's the kind of opportunity we see in the future but we can really drive down the cost of these wells as we go to pad drilling.
I have an ability to take a pad put a facility and connect it to the processing plant that you can control and manage flows.
There are huge advantages and some folks don't appreciate that I really do think though that if you just look at the DJ it is sort of the example you can see that value.
Yes.
The symbiotic relationship we have Western Gas and how that folds into our business plan I am sure you have seen and yes I know from your write-ups you recognize it but it is a big part of kind of what we do every day.
That is very helpful.
A very small follow-up with regards to divestitures A do you see on-shore opportunities for divestitures? B any update on Brazil and how you are thinking about that? Brian it's Bob Gwin.
Sure.
Al talked earlier about the reasons we look at certain things for divestitures in terms of the way that they attract capital or their scalability and that goes for on-shore as well as anywhere else in the world so we continue to look at the on-shore assets and try to drive the efficiency and the overall return to growth of the portfolio as well as possible.
When it comes to Brazil no update on Brazil the unitization process continues.
As we have said we don't expect anything to occur prior to unitizations but our team is working on a development plan for Wahoo where we operate because given that we can't really control the pace of the unitization we want to make sure that we continue to drive the value of the asset and that although we would still expect to exit over time we wanted to have the best asset available to us to sell when that time comes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Al I wonder if I could try a couple also.
The Delaware Basin first of all it seems that there was a number of moving parts on the infrastructure transaction and I guess you probably wanted to fair most of the commentary to WES but what I am interested is given the oil price environment how does the Delaware in your mind compete for capital within the portfolio.
I guess I am curious as to why not so much reluctance but why the decision to wait on given us an update on let's say the inventory and the de-risk area given the that at least from what we can see some of your wells - in the high confidence area are some of the best wells you drilled to-date so any color on that would be great.
Thanks.
Well one thing is we are still leasing so we are not really excited about talking any more than what we are and later this morning Western Gas when it does its earnings call will go into greater detail about how wave fits into the Western Gas story and synergy that it has with Anadarko associated with that.
I think the details associated with all that are best left to the Western Gas call.
From the standpoint of just what we are doing there I think we would prefer to wait till March to give you the rollout of everything.
Some of that where we will have a better understanding where the hydrocarbon environment is for natural gas and NGLs and oil at that point.
I think Doug you know this quite well but are probably others don't.
I mean this is an unusual hydrocarbon mix.
We think on average we are looking at about 70% cut of 40 degree oil with plenty of gas in the system to give us reservoir energy and a nice NGL cut but this is an unusual to-date mix of oil coming out here which we think personally and I think as the company over time the refinery complex in the U.S.
will be quite interested in having 40 degree crude oil coming in as the feedstock versus the oil that shows up today that has a lot of other things in it that they have to separate.
It could be real advantage force us as markets find better equilibrium for prices than they do today but the details associated with what we are doing there anymore than kind of where we are today just simply we think this environment being where it is gives us an opportunity to acquire things in this basin that could be advantageous to us and today we announced with Western this Nuevo transaction after the market close yesterday but if you think about what we did the DJ this is exactly the way we went about our business in the DJ and there the horizontal drilling program over time we talked about more we had performances because Chuck was very slow to give big EURs and slow to give big ranges of what we thought the resource capability will be to until we will have more - Chuck? Yes Doug.
My sense is that we have about 45 wells that are in some stages of production.
Most are just really getting started so our view is that by the spring we will have another 150 days 180 days of production on those wells.
Most of them will have that order of magnitude of production on them.
I think we can give you some really good information then with regard to what our per well type curves look like the way that it varies across the field and the mixes that we see across the field and why we see those.
I think if you step back far enough Doug and you look at this basin this is a world-class basin.
It is a spectacular oilfield.
We told you it has 100 million barrels of oil in place on each section and we are very fortunate to already captured in excess of the 1 000 sections so we are really excited about the scope scale opportunity here.
If you sit out there today and you drill one well as scattered throughout the field the economics are okay but they certainly have room for improvement.
It is really when we get into the large scale development we can pad real leverage our infrastructure and continuously learn from our activities and I see these economics taken off.
We are away from that today but I see this thing being very competitive within Anadarko in the very near future in a meaningful way and for a long time.
Even if we were restricted to just to our higher confidence area which clearly the results outside the delineation area would certainly point you in a much larger program even if you are restricted in that higher confidence area where we have and we pad drilled.
This thing is meaningful material to Anadarko and I think it will only get better for us with time.
I appreciate your answers guys.
I am going to apologize in advance for this next question.
I am going to try this and see what stick (Inaudible) it is kind of related to the Delaware but also to the non-core assets on portfolio if there were such a thing.
As you get closer to Mozambique the enabling law the one thing that [jumps] to us is there seems to be some concerns around - more concerns around some speculation that Mozambique government would really like to have a large established LNG markets were in place.
Again I am kind of going in (Inaudible) here to some extent.
When I look at your working interest position in the Delaware and only enabling infrastructure and all the things you are doing there there seems to be a fairly obvious solution.
I am just curious if your Mozambique is a strategic asset or is it a core asset? Well I think today I highlighted those.
I mean we have really gotten a lot done with the government.
The government was proactive in getting enabling all past during the quarter.
As we move from enabling language into the Decree Law that will obviously set the stage for plan of development for next year.
Then finally a final investment decision after the POD but if we don't get an acceptable Decree Law we don't have a lot to worry about because simply put if you think about it we sold down 10% working interest in Mozambique.
In after-tax we had about $2.1 million as a result of that transaction.
That recovered around $1 billion of money that we invested in the country and gave us after-tax close to or certainly within shouting distance the amount of money that we would need to equity finance the development are not covered by project financing.
Today as we sit here we are in the position of making sure that the Decree Law does what we needed to do for all the contractual and governmental support we need to see.
Then it allows us as we move into the big dollars spend because I know you know this but just simply as we look at it we are looking to spend close to $15 billion to put all of the 100% interest associated with the onshore LNG part in place and all that goes with that government and then the subsea architecture associated with the drilling of the wells themselves.
The big money is front us but the good news is I think unlike any other operator of any LNG project that I have seen or been able to take into consideration as we are sitting here looking at submitting a plan of development assuming we get the Decree Law language that the government has promised us they will deliver we are not financially in need of going to first production to get our money back.
As we get the first liftings we have already covered our money and have the ability using the common cash as fungible we de-risk this financially in a way that I am not sure anybody has ever de-risk an LNG project for.
Options in terms of what we want to do with it how we want to proceed with it will always be ours but I am really proud of the way in which this company financially de-risk a long cycle investment and the way in which we have been able to do it because sometimes when you have tremendous exploration success finding one of the largest gas reserves in the world ever could have caused us a lot of problems somewhat through our success but we managed that that success very well with the financial discipline that we have sown over and over again.
I appreciate the answer.
Maybe just a very quick follow-up Shell has been divesting a lot of assets in [Wolf] 48 you know percentage increase and working interest in the Delaware? We have seen no interest from them.
They have not expressed any and I am not aware of any Shell is a partner of ours in a lot of places around the world.
They are certainly very good at what they do.
If there was ever a dialogue I am sure we would always listen to.
I think one of the things we are doing today is we are pretty commercial.
We are willing to listen to things that people want us to consider but I today don't see any indication publicly or - and we have been with Shale privately.
This conversation has never occurred so I don't have any reason to think they would want to to be honest.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning Al and to the rest of your team there.
If I could go back to the 2015 CapEx question I think if I heard you correctly when you said it is too early now that you are looking at it like the markets have settled and that exploration is going to be a part of your program in any commodity price.
Can you talk about what the different options or levers you guys would be evaluated as you go into March.
It's my way of thinking it's up not that it would be the best thing to do but maybe the easiest or the most continuous adjustment possible is on the North American convention program but could you just talk about what your priority is and how your process internally would look as you as you evaluate that? You bet.
I think we simply think about allocating capital in '15 philosophically in a way where we can grow our margins through wellhead and grow our EBITDAX per share.
Those are important things for us to be able to do with their capital while still invest in our future.
It is very important that we invest in things that we will need in our pipeline through the balance of the decade.
As I think about how to do the [former] it's resemble there is three big plays on-shore today that we believe will feed on a lot of our capital.
How much? I couldn't tell you today because I don't see enough clarity around what the price environment is going to be for next year both for the commodity as well as for the service cost but Delaware Wattenberg and Eagleford are the places where we will spend the majority of our on-shore capital as well as the majority of our overall capital as we think about '15.
Got it.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Then if I could pick up a bit on the thread of the midstream questions.
This is specifically about the Wattenberg but because there is a bigger question of how applicable this is to the rest of your of development on-shore the U.S.
it looks like as we look over last year it is tremendous that the year-over-year growth nearly a double and a big chunk of that was enabled by this Lancaster plant.
As we are looking at -assuming we should have the commodity price environment where growth is the order of the day should we expect a more continuous ramp from this point now that you have dealt with some of the midstream constraints or should we expect things to be lumpy as they have been in the last 12 months is that going to be the more typical pattern going forward? Well one of the things we try to do and I think we have done a pretty good job of it is to have our midstream spend synced up with our up-stream spend so you are going to have a little bit of what Chuck has referred to in the past where we load the spring.
As we load the spring in the Delaware it is going to be a little likely loaded the spring in the DJ and you are going to see the impact come I would not say lumpy but as much as in wave as we develop things associated with how he loads that spring.
I also would just point out to you that one of the reasons that we invest in exploration long-term is we have things like Lucius and Heidelberg that come into the mix over the balance of the decade.
Today I have every confidence in the world that our deepwater international exploration activities will produce results that will give us additional production that I don't even know where it is going to be today.
I have high degree of confidence that we are not just an on-shore unconventional resource company but rather we are a cocktail mix of conventional and unconventional in domestic and international.
A cocktail mix and I will just make one more in there.
What should we look for on the Lucius development? What kind of Before I got to Lucius let me let Chuck as I was going to let Chuck add one more thing to that comment if I could.
Yes Charles.
I appreciate you pointing out the growth in Wattenberg.
It's actually just been particular.
The way we look at it we had a lot of opportunity I know that - as Al mentioned on Wattenberg when we turned Lancaster.
The other thing that we were not quite certain how it would work but we felt like it would be good it was how the average yield in the field would go up at our plants once we got the high capacity cryogenic plants in place.
There's a really good graphic in the quarterly operating report that shows so that has been a huge benefit to us.
We are actually already constructing Lancaster 2 because we see a continuation of that growth in Wattenberg.
I am not sure that as you grow it almost doubling it's really that lumpy.
It has just been really nice.
What we see going on a sort of more steady-state growth and maybe 8 000 to 10 000-type barrels a quarter.
It could vary a little just depending upon when we are connecting compressors pads and all that kind of thing but I don't anticipate seeing this sort of year-over-year growth from here on but I still a really strong growth pattern.
We will have additional midstream capacity that we will be putting in and we have a nice active rig program.
Fourth quarter as we look out we are going to have a lot of will Absolute timing in those will dictate the amount of growth that we have in the next year depending on how we turn out on capital.
That will dictate what this gross rate is but we see a lot of capacity for growth for a long time.
Charles I think you had a question about Lucius.
I am sorry.
I apologize I cut you off a little bit.
No.
I was one who jumped in there.
What should we look to participants in the public markets for the [midstream] when you add on how that start up goes.
This is Jim.
We have had a real good the progress made in our Lucius project here over the last quarter.
We have got all the subsurface architecture installed although (Inaudible) have been pulled and we are in the final stages of hook up in commission on the off-shore facilities.
Additionally we have had two rigs in the field during the final stages of completions on our fourth and our fifth well.
The six well will start here very soon but the initial tests on the completion show extremely strong wells.
In fact we have got PIs or productivity indexes that are higher than what we anticipate so it really goes to the credit of our subsurface team for characterizing the reservoir for drilling and completions groups on installing very high efficiencies in our completions and we anticipate here in the next coming weeks to introduce first hydrocarbons through the facility.
We will go through a very careful and prudent ramp-up of these wells as we bring them on.
That should start here towards the end of the month and we will transition over the next few months into full production.
Lucius facility has a nameplate capacity of 80 000 barrels a day and we have got about 24% working interest so that gives you an idea of what we should expect to see from a net production standpoint.
Got it.
Thank you for the detail.
Operator? Thank you.
Just one moment for your next question.
Operator do you have someone else in the queue with the question? Yes we do.
We are just having a technical difficulty just for a moment.
Just a moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo of TPH.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Matt sorry I am not sure what caused you to have to wait but sorry about that.
No problem.
Just one quick question for me maybe two areas where you guys have talked about some early delineation but probably don't get as much airtime as the major three basins would be the PRB and your exposure in Laramie County.
I was wondering if you could just provide us an update and kind of your general thoughts around those two areas in terms of some of the delineation work you are doing currently and maybe some of the incremental data you are getting in terms of the well results you have seen so far.
Thanks Matt.
This is Chuck.
Both of those looked like really exciting areas for us.
We are participating in Laramie County with EOG and others.
Certainly the early returns out there look exciting.
They are probably in a better position to give you individual well results and those types of things.
In general we see it is a fairly large opportunity several townships and it is right.
It cuts right through our land grant so we are excited about that because of our not only our working interest position but the royalty advantage that we have.
We are also looking up and down the land grant for similar ideas and I think that may be as exciting as the Laramie County discovery itself so we have continued to look that so it could lead to other things along the land grant.
Our view is that it's been going on for six or eight months now and that a pretty short order.
Probably at the Investor conference we will give you some more detail on what we see as the tight curves and maybe the prospectively of production that we see in the future.
It's good [oil] it's good type of things kind of things we produce at Wattenberg and really good we are excited about it and we are going to keep going on with it.
When you move up in the Powder River Basin we really shifted our focus into the Southern Powder where we have a really substantial land position.
We have been running one or two rigs up there for a while now testing different-different horizons the frontier and the Niobrara.
We are seeing some good results out of each.
We are really sizing those up and down trying to get an idea of the - extent and potential development options that we have.
I see us coming to conclusions on those activities sometime next year.
Then kicking off a development program that would be inclusive of the pad drilling and alike so both look exciting both are very oily which of course we like.
Both of them are new opportunities that we could add to our shorter win toward which we are very excited about.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Two quick ones one for Chuck and one for Bob Chuck any well completion design changes at all on the Wattenberg? Plug and perf versus sliding sleeve or just business as normal? Then for Bob in Mozambique I will probably mispronounce this but Orca well which was a down dip situation was dry does that change anything in your outlook from a resource base? That is all.
Yes.
Thanks John.
I will take the first one on the DJ.
We continue to test John different frac designs and the mechanical methods by which we do them.
We have typically particularly as our laterals have got a little longer have tended more toward the plug and perf methods just because of the mechanical necessity of that.
The risk of the other methods the one thing that we are putting a lot of focus on right now and I think this offers us some opportunity going forward.
As we continue to test tighter and tighter spacing we are learning a whole lot about how these fracs interact with each other.
- Well the well and those types of things so we are working on in designs to optimize that whole was opposed on an individual basis.
That really seems to be - we are learning a lot and I think that there's some opportunity in that arena so it's not really just business as usual because we are continuing to learn we are continuing to optimize that sort of the total picture and I think there is better things to come as we move forward.
John this is Bob regarding the Mozambique - no it doesn't impact our resource estimations at all.
That was an exploratory well.
We are looking for some different targets in there.
We were unsuccessful.
Meanwhile we are drilling again with true appraisal wells in order for that have the potential to increase resources in the Orca 4 that has the potential to increase the resources in Orca accumulation and we are trying to define what that is and then we will be moving over to the Tubarao Tigre-2 which is the first appraisal of that discovery we have made this year so that would be additional resources to the overall numbers but their recent MR was more was no impact whatsoever.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold of RBC.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Since we are on Mozambique I just had a couple of quick follow-ups here.
First on additional exploration activities is there anything else you will need to do to secure any of that acreage at this point in time or is there any other areas that that you would kind of step out yet.
Then two once Decree Law is in place can you give us a sense of the timeframe how long it takes to get the on-shore project in place.
When we could see first production? Is it a two-year processes just kind of a general context around that? Scott I will start with just the offshore wells.
The wells that we are drilling now are to try to lock up what acreage we can hold throughout discovery licenses.
Then potentially take into development of licenses.
Right now we have the Prosperidade complex the Golfinho/Atum already blocked up.
Orca is being delineated this year.
With that we will submit the area that we want to hold with it.
Tubarao Tigre we are appraising as I mentioned next and we will submit an initial area so that will pretty much block up most of the northern two-thirds of the off-shore block.
Meanwhile on the on-shore block we were drilling a well at Tembo our first exploratory well of this new campaign so second we brought on-shore and that's about halfway down.
We are already seeing some encouragement in it but we have a ways to go to get to totaled depth and then we will be moving on to another on-shore block or another on-shore prospect called Kifaru afterwards.
There is a lot of activity still going on the timing of the two blocks is a little different but we do want to get the blocks in the off-shore held as much as possible and to find the resources we have and then the exploration activity could lead to further delineation work in the on-shore.
I think regarding to your second question on Mozambique timing as Al mentioned we have done tremendous amount of work in parallel with agreements we are putting in place with the government.
The critical path to sanction of the project is based off of obtaining an acceptable to Decree Law with the government.
Once that's completed we will submit a plan of development which outlines the full development both commercially and in our timeframe of doing so.
Assuming we get approved plan of development and we have project financing and all of our sale and purchase agreements completed from a marketing standpoint we would be in a position to take financial investment decisions sometime second half of next year and that would initiate the infrastructure development because this is a very remote part of Mozambique with little to no infrastructure roads or port access we will have to build quite a bit of common infrastructure which includes roads facilities and camps to house people.
Some of that work is being conducted right now on the form of site characterization which was necessary for the environmental impact assessment which has been submitted and approved.
If we get the FID we would launch the EPC contracts for both off-shore and on-shore development and expected timeframe of the project this size from project sanctioned to first production is generally four years so it's a very large build out multiple facets including ports airports camp capabilities and power generations and corporate a large-scale development so that timeframe we are looking at the first cargo first lifting in about 2019.
Okay.
Thats great color.
A quick follow-up I know you guys talked a lot on the Delaware Basin and infrastructure.
With regards to the acquisition you all that Western had made is their capacity on that system or you what's your ability to kind of move oil and gas on that system? Yes.
The capacity announced if you read the releases it is roughly 300 million cubic feet of process and expanding rapidly to 700 million during the course of 2015 so that will be a quite a bit of capacity on it.
I think the other key infrastructure that we really had a lot of interest in with some of the gas gathering assets that were associated with it.
There weren't any oil assets associated with this one but the gas gathering assets if you get a chance take a look at that map and where those pipelines go it actually runs right through what we call our checkerboard area Western Reeves County.
We see that areas as very prospective.
That is where one of the large wells that Al mentioned earlier is located so what we hope to do is take those assets combine them with our current DB JV activity that we have.
It's the Anadarko position that we have with regard to our current existing gas infrastructure and combine them loop them so that we can actually get even more throughput out of the entirety of the system and retain any one leg so it's going to take some work it is going to take some ingenuity and sometime.
If you look at it it has all the makings of a really complete field-wide gathering system when you combine these assets with the existing ones.
I apologize there was probably a word question - what I meant to ask is that of the 300 million a day is there already firm locked up on a lot of that stuff.
When I look at Anadarko the incremental capacity that is being added should I expect that you guys should be a large amount of that additional firm? We would not be a large amount the additional but as we do the expansion it would be a very significant producer that those.
Okay.
Scott before you get off the line I just want to say it didn't go unnoticed by me this morning that you raised your price target on us a $2 per share in light of all of the market noise and things that we have been achieving through the course of the year.
We really appreciate that.
We also recognize that you and others saw the quarter being extremely good quarter and I understand that the tax situations associated with the Tronox payment coupled with timing of the tanker lifting being a few weeks here and there doesn't really mean you missed the quarter.
It actually means you knocked the ball out of the park for the quarter and those events are beyond our control.
Nonetheless the things that we do control we've done a really good job of controlling.
Again thank you for raising your price target.
It is a well deserved.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Maybe a different strategic midstream question and some ways an extension of your Wattenberg relative success and potential at the Permian front the Nuevo deal and potentially into off-shore so I believe in your off-shore infrastructure assets in WES today can you discuss the priority or potential to monetize some of those assets.
As you look at future GoM developments does the ability to monetize a portion of that CapEx via WES factor in your returns or analysis? I mean to me it looks like a large opportunity unique to the Gulf of Mexico unique to Anadarko and the end game has to be most midstream in WES I would presume.
Evan it's Bob Gwin.
I think the best way to think about WES is an onshore midstream owner and operator and developer.
I think the off-shore we have certainly considered some of that over time.
The risk return characteristics don't necessarily fit WES's profile as well and some if not a lot of our off-shore assets are leased.
As you have seen we have been decommissioning some of the legacy spars etcetera.
I wouldn't think down that path.
I think the growth potential at WES is certainly top-quartile top rate relative to MLP universe.
The overall risk profile is significantly limited to really throughput where commodity price risk has been eliminated and that has been reflected in the yield and evaluation of both WES and increasingly WGP which will benefit substantially from the Nuevo transaction as well.
I think WES more the same driving organic growth along with potential drop downs in the future and third-party acquisitions like this large one is a combination that makes a lot more sense than and the exposure WES has all of Anadarko's large on-shore growth plays is really the place.
I see that business model developing probably also though a good question for Don Sinclair on WES's earnings call at 11 o'clock this morning.
Got it.
I appreciate it.
Good acquisition there.
Thank you.
We are pretty excited about it.
Okay.
Well I think we have run passed the top of the hour operator.
Consistent with the way in which we do these every quarter and not going to bleed into earnings calls for other the company.
We probably ought to bring to closure there.
Again I want to think the employees of Anadarko for yet another great quarter.
We continue to work hard for shareholders.
We are going to continue to work hard in the days and weeks ahead to finish out the year strong as we can and appreciate the encouragement we have gotten from many of you over the course of the year.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Anadarko's Year-End 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning everyone.
I am glad you could join us today for Anadarko's year-end 2014 conference call.
And also before we get started I want to make sure you have on your calendars our conference calls scheduled for March 3rd where we will provide our 2015 guidance and key performance metrics.
I'd also like to remind you that todays presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations on our website and attached to yesterdays earnings release.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up to questions for Al and our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
As I share with you Anadarko's 2014 highlights and a few thoughts on 2015 I hope you come away with two prevailing themes.
First we believe the portfolio we've designed coupled with our approach to capital allocation and portfolio management has shown the ability to deliver outstanding results and it will continue to serve our shareholders well in the future.
Second we're approaching 2015 with a great deal of caution as are many companies but Anadarko will focus on preserving value and flexibility rather than chasing growth in a lower return environment.
Our operational performance in 2014 was outstanding and Anadarko's employees delivered a tremendous year across the board.
On the divestiture adjusted basis we grew sales volumes by more than 11% year-over-year.
Even more impressively we increased our liquids volumes by 26%.
This significant growth was achieved while generating almost $150 million of free cash flow.
Anadarko replaced more than 160% of its reserves and continues to be one of the lowest cost operators in our industry while improving upon industry leading safety performance.
We did this while monetizing more than $2.5 billion of assets completing a $335 million secondary offering of WGP common units increasing our dividend by 50% and settling a frustrating Tronox Adversary Proceeding.
Our U.S.
onshore operations were nothing short of incredible led by the Wattenberg field and the Eagle Ford shale resulting in full year volumes growth of 16%.
This was more than 90 000 BOEs per day over our average sales volume for 2013 on divestiture adjusted basis.
Wattenbergs growth has surpassed even our expectations.
You might recall during 2013 this asset had grown to more than 100 000 BOE per day and in 2014 volumes grew another 60 000 BOE per day or about 55%.
Wattenbergs exceptional performance was facilitated by the growing up of our acreage positions outstanding reservoir performance improved efficiencies enhanced drilling and completions and importantly the investments we made in key infrastructure expansions.
Now weve taken that same model and are working to replicate this success in the emerging Wolfcamp Shale opportunity in West Texas.
Were expanding our infrastructure including Western Gas acquisition up in the Delaware Basin assets and working to optimize our development programs.
Beyond the short cycle cash-on-cash opportunities in the U.S.
onshore we continue to advance our medium cycle mega projects having recently achieved first oil at Lucius our largest spar to-date in the Gulf of Mexico.
Lucius twin the Heidelbergs spar also received a significant milestone as we came near completion on the topsides and continue to move towards first oil in 2016.
During last quarters conference call I discussed the important to receive an acceptable Decree Law for our Mozambique LNG development project.
As I suspect many of you know the government gazette the law prior to year-end to establish contractual and legal framework for this projects development.
With the Decree Law behind us we secured an additional non-binding LNG offtake agreement now totaling more than 8 million tons per annum.
This sets the stage for the final development submission we anticipate delivering to the government later this year.
These are just a few of the highlights for which we are very proud that we accomplished last year and I encourage you to review the fourth quarter ops on our website for more updates and details.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the year with a very strong financial position with $7.4 billion of cash on hand and in January resolved the Tronox Advisory proceeding by remitting the $5.2 billion payment.
For the second consecutive year we organically added more than a 0.5 billion barrels of crude reserves.
We did this at a cost of $8.8 billion in 2014 resulting in a very competitive and likely industry leading finding and development cost.
During 2014 we successfully delivered great operating results with the largest capital program in the companys history.
And as mentioned previously we did this while generating positive free cash flow.
This record operating performance again demonstrates the capabilities of our portfolio its people and the companys culture.
Its a powerful testament to the depth and quality of our assets to exceed our original expectations by almost 40 000 BOE per day the size of many mid-cap companies all while staying within the original capital guidance.
The commodity environment for 2015 and likely 2016 is a long way from the last few years.
Our track record for efficient capital allocation within a durable portfolio is exceptional.
Few companies have accomplished what APC did operationally the last five years.
All this while paying out almost $10 billion in cash related to instances that challenged us in many ways.
As we mentioned earlier were approaching 2015 with caution given the uncertainty surrounding commodity prices and service cost.
We will provide you details about our 2015 capital program and guidance for key performance metrics on our investor call on March 3rd as John mentioned earlier.
We have shown in the last five years we can be very good on offence and we will demonstrate the same tenacity as we transition to the opportunities the current market affords us.
We have the skills the financial capacity and the work ethics to create value in this difficult market.
When this market turns and commodity prices once again sync up at cost we look forward to playing the type of offense we did in the last five years and doing it well.
APC has tremendous option value and durability and well continue to be active portfolio managers.
With that well open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Bob Brackett from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Can you talk a bit about maybe not the details of what 2015 will look like but at least your approach to funding the program to high grading to allocating capital? Sure good morning Bob.
I think it would be fair to say that you can anticipate once we have reviewed with our Board received their concurrence that our capital plan for 2015 will be significantly lower than it was for 2014.
And I think you can expect it will probably be in line with the type of reductions you have seen from our peers.
I think with that coupled with the comments I made about not chasing growth and a low environment for commodities and economics and that we want to maintain flexibility doing this along with financial capability those are going to be watchwords.
I mean we dont really see the need to grow in an environment where we dont have well head economics purely for the simple purpose of having production growth as an objective.
Quick follow-up where do you see service cost deflation going and in a $4 gas world how would you think about allocating capital oil versus gas.
Okay I will start with this and I will see if I can get Chuck Meloy to also to give you a few thoughts from him.
If you think about the fact that onshore today unlike say ten years ago around 70% of our costs are now in completions whereas 10 years ago 70% of the costs were in actual drilling of the wells and 30% were in completions.
As a result as weve looked at this and comments I made in January at a conference would concur with and get ready to tell you that simply we dont see this being a quick change to the service cost environment simply because we are going to honor our contracts and I think so will the industry.
We are in this with the service companies as partners.
As we move to sync up those costs however I think you can anticipate that maybe by the end of the year early into the next we could see significant reduction in service calls.
If we were fortunate enough to be able to find a [indiscernible] to save 20% reductions in service calls and you think about it being in a prior world at $90 per barrel and the economics they gave us at the well head $70 could be the new $90 or $90 could be the new $70 however you want to look at it.
So we think that $70 gives you the same economics that $90 with the 20% reduction in service costs.
I think thats sort of the way our industry is going to have to look at things.
This is going to be a year of transition to a different service costs that gets synced up with a different commodity environment.
Thats just an overview and I am going to ask Chuck if he would to add on that a little bit and certainly in the deepwater where we have entirely different service environment the costs there are still coming down.
And I think activity levels there you will see moderating as well.
Chuck if you would? Yeah Bob this is Chuck Malloy.
Just a couple of points.
I think Al is right on the mark with regard to what service costs will do over the next time frame.
With regard to $4 gas price I am not certain that the actual commodity strip difference is a big driver here.
We have -- we are looking for the economics in our portfolio and we are going to pick out the best economic opportunities that we have that we got to drill.
And what I have seen here recently is you really see the differentials in the basins in cost the really hot basins have higher costs.
So we may be doing things in areas that arent quite as hot for a while and letting the costs come towards us.
There is a just a lot of opportunity and in our portfolio we can play the game pretty hard.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning Al; good morning everybody.
I guess as kind of related question Ive got two actually but to Bobs you got about a $20 contango on oil right now and given the dynamics of how these the wells come on in terms of how much values in the first couple of years how do you think about when you talk about in your prepared remarks preserving value over growth.
As obviously a lot of value could be preserved if you slow things down but I am just wondering how that factors into your thinking in terms of the capital plan.
And I have got a follow-up please.
Okay in one of these earnings calls they are going to get your last name right Doug.
I just know they will.
As it relates to your question I think as we think about our capital plan that we will be taking to our Board we view this sort of a starting point with an assumption around what the price environment whats the service cost environment is going to be for the year but probably like with everyone including yourself with more concern and trepidation of exactly what will be the real world that 2015 turns out to look like.
As a result I continue to believe and think its likely that you are going to see our capital plan evolve through the year based upon the way in which costs sync up with revenue associated with the commodity price environment.
Consequently if we get into a much more extended period where we have low commodity prices and we do not have much movement on the service cost side I think you can anticipate we could very likely drop our capital plans that we come out with to a lower number.
We would achieve that through dropping rigs and not completing wells that we have drilled.
So we have a lot of flexibility built into what we are proposing to our Board here and as a result I see the initial capital plan as one that is just a starting point.
I appreciate the answer.
I guess my follow-up is hopefully a bit more positive and I guess it seems to me from the ops report the results from Shenandoah and Paon I guess these are higher profile wells you have.
I am just wondering if you are -- the guys are stationed now where you can talk about potential scale in both cases and potential development schedules for those potential assets but I realize it might be a little early but just order of magnitude and potential timing would be really helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah you bet its a little early I think you probably are correct in that comment and Bob and Jim Kleckner respectively can address some of your question more specifically.
But I think as it relates to how we take those development I am not concerned today about how we would necessarily do that from a technical standpoint how it fits into our capital allocation plans in future years.
I think of that as little bit more of a coming attraction once we understand better what the costs really are to take those two first lifting or first production.
So why dont we handle the Shenandoah question first and then come back to the Paon question a little bit because I think they do somewhat go hand in hand and Jim needs to add something around what Bob has to say.
Hey Doug good morning.
At Shenandoah Ill start there we are so excited about what we are seeing there.
We have got very good results for what we set out to do at the most recent appraisal well.
If you remember that appraisal well was several miles away and about 1 500 feet down dip of the number 2 I guess 2.3 miles to the east and 1 500 feet down there.
And we are looking to see if we can establish oil water contacts at that location.
So we knew it be very far down there and close to that.
We want to look at the lateral sand and the reservoir continuity; we want to look at quality of sands in that area because as we get down closer to oil water contact we have to get an idea about the drive mechanism and would we have an effective water drive then for recovery.
We had a model that we would see potential interval expansion as we move to off structure and then we want to get pressure data to show pressure continuity into the other number 2 well.
So overall we are looking to understand the oil in place better and the potential recovery mechanism.
But if you look at the results we really did all of that.
We have excellent lateral sand continuity.
The packages are all present they are very well co-relatable.
They have expanded so that model of expansion did work out.
We had up to about 1 470 feet of gross sand section versus a 1 000 feet that we had in the number 2 well.
The oil/water contacts were not encountered in the well based on the pressure data we were able to project those up.
So we got a much better handle on the oil in place and that has expanded.
We have more confidence on it.
So that was a very positive thing.
Reservoir quality was good.
So that gives us lot of confidence on the potential for the water drive.
So we got a lot more confidence on our geologic model and the eastern side of our structural interpretation.
We have gotten out pipeline over there.
And then the potential for the active water drive and a much higher confidence level on oil/water contacts for the field lie.
So as we move forward we are looking at an additional appraisal well this year.
That will be to the west of the number 2 well to test the western portion with the same sorts of objectives lateral sand continuity but this one will not be searching for the oil/water contact as much because we think we got a fairly good handle on that now.
So we are looking at sand continuity reservoir quality.
We are talking about potentially getting a core in it.
So we have a core in the reservoir section whereas we did get a core in the most recent well in the water section which will give us a lot of good information.
That well should spud in the second half of the year and then based on these results and the upcoming well the development teams already doing conceptual work.
And I'll let Jim talk a little bit about where they are on that but we still got some work to do out here.
Hi this is Jim and let me just follow on with what Bob said.
We've taken the full bypass corridor and we're working our reservoir simulation models right now to fully understand and characterize the sand quality as Bob said but we're also launching a basis of design or different types of development options.
We're also incorporating a joint industry project to look at the pressure regimes that we will be operating in and looking at 20 000 PSI systems for handling the pressures we anticipate countering in the reservoir.
So from an evaluation scoping standpoint the work is progressing very well and we'll wait to see what the results of the follow-on appraisal wells will indicate for our resource size.
And then you asked about Paon and I had said in I think our last conference call we'll drill Paon number three and potentially with success well drill the number four well.
Well we drilled the number four so that indicates that three was successful.
We found little over 90 feet pay in the original number three well and then we went to the Southeast into the number four location testing another sand lode that we thought might be in communication with it.
We found pay over there also.
So we think we have enough resources here to move forward with a development planning the conceptual development planning.
The one thing that has changed slightly is there are more gas in the system than what we originally encountered or originally thought.
And actually the gas is going to be more valuable to us than the liquids.
There is a very good gas market in Cote d'Ivoire and we're actively in discussions with the government about how we would get the gas into the country and what sort of pricing we could expect because that would be really critical as we make our decisions.
We have a planned Paon pockets for this year along with the DST and the DST will be for pressure monitoring and some of the previously drilled wells to work on reservoir continuity and looking at getting some more rock data and that's really helped finalize the development planning.
The well bores that we have are all utilizable for production.
So we don't have a whole lot of new drilling that we'd have to do out here.
Its more on the surface and the market that we have to work.
So positive results there and we have additional appraisal to do and some work with the government to finalize the pricing into the Cote d'Ivoire market for the gas.
We would also be stripping away Thanks for the details.
So just a very quick follow-up.
Is this a PSC or pricing royalty in Cote d'Ivoire? Cote d'Ivoire is PSC.
Great stuff.
All right thanks very much.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning gentlemen.
Al my first one is for you if this ends up being more of a U shaped type of recovery in terms of the oil prices just wondering how this would govern your thinking about the mix of invested capital between your short cycle mega projects medium cycle and the longer term projects through exploration versus a V shaped type of recovery.
Well good morning Arun.
I think today we would concur with those that are in the camp that think we have a U shape.
We're not anticipating it being V shaped.
So consequently as you've heard in my prepared comments we see ourselves in a peer here trying to build value maintain flexibility and not grow in a low commodity price environment that has economics that we see as less attractive.
Consequently we will continue to add to more of the mid-cycle and to some extent longer cycle stuff with our exploration and create the option value that we've done so well I think over the last six or seven years and I don't see ourselves really deviating from a lot of the things we've done so well the last five.
I think what we will do is put out a little bit of the hold or a pause on some of the short cycle well where we frankly we as an industry just don't have the proper wellhead economics until service call sync up with the commodities.
When we see that then we're prepared to move forward and as we have in the past and I think what we will do over the next year or two years or whatever it turns out to be I think we will be aggressive like many companies that have the financial capability and flexibility that we do today by taking advantage of the opportunities that develop from the hardships that this lower price environment will likely create.
Great my follow-up Al is just on cost deflation.
You gave us a lot of great color on that.
I just wanted to see if you could just perhaps comment particularly in the U.S.
on today what your spot versus contracted exposure is perhaps on the completion side and how does that change over the next 12 months? Chuck and Ill tackle that one with you.
I think were in a little bit of a transition simply because like many companies of our size a lot of the services that we contract for are under more of a contractual obligation than something thats just spot.
We drive our costs down by being able to do things over a longer term horizon.
Thats the comment I made earlier about not being too far with our contracts.
Were pretty short with our contractual obligations.
So we go through the course of this year onshore well have the ability to completely reshuffle the deck as it relates to those contractors that we have been using and prospectively we would be using in the future.
And Ill let Chuck give you a little color around exactly his thoughts on how hes going to manage that.
Yeah were in the I guess theres two elements to it.
First off is the drilling rigs.
Were about the end of this year well have very few rigs that are left on any -- that have any term left on them other than the eight newbuilds that were taking on this year.
So were in a really good spot to try to realize market rates on a well by well basis as they materialize.
So thats a fairly short position that were on to drive the completions.
Most of our contracts now are on a well-to-well basis and weve lowered our completion crews from 16 to 11 already and the predominance of the 11 work for us on kind of pad by pad basis.
So were getting -- we are in a really good spot to take full advantage of whatever the price concessions that we can get.
And really I would just add this requires every company but certainly I would say certainly the larger companies and we want to work with our service providers.
We do have a partnership here that goes beyond the next quarter or the quarter after that but we will work hard to try to figure out ways to sync up to where if we have the types of service cost reductions that allow us to go back in and see capital at good rates of return we will.
We wont chase growth just for growths sake.
Okay thanks a lot gentlemen.
Your next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning youve spoken earlier in the call with regards to the cost environment onshore and wanted to see if you could touch more on the LNG cost especially as this is a key here for contracting in Mozambique.
Are you seeing any deflationary pressures from the stronger dollar from lower steel prices that could materially change the cost and the breakeven prices for Mozambique or is this something that is more further down the road or unlikely to happen? Sure great question Brian and Jim in conjunction with Scott Moore I think probably can address your question.
As it relates to how were thinking about the feed portion the build in Mozambique and then as it relates to the HOAs ways that weve entered into and the contractual mix.
So Jim why dont if you dont mind you start it.
Yeah good morning Brian.
Just in regards to the question on steel and its impact on the project obviously the construction liquefaction of the pipelines and the subsurface construction of the wells would be large consumers of steel.
The feeds have been submitted and we are in the process of working through with the joint ventures that submitted those feeds pricing given the market status right now and we havent completed that.
But Ill just say that it is ongoing and we would anticipate as we see commodity prices fall and steel prices fall we would see some discounting in pricing.
And also I would add that from the HOA point of view we do see continued strong interest from our premium agents and buyers who recognize the world class resource that were developing and the strategic nature.
And we have been using hybrids and S curves in our pricing structures that really do help us moderate impact of lower oil prices in the near end of the oil curve.
Thank you for the color and to follow up on that Al you mentioned earlier relating to the 20% service cost deflation at $70 could be the new $90.
Are you to that point with LNG based on what you just said that the equivalent of a $20 decrease in your breakeven price or is that more for the onshore? No that comment was related more to the onshore activities.
Obviously whether its LNG or its building spars that we might be contracting for in future those costs are different in terms of price discovery.
But as the odds become less full of backlogs I think we added those to drive costs down whether it is onshore or in the deepwater.
And certainly as it relates to the LNG development and the onshore part in particular we are in the final stages of naming our field contractor and working through the various tenders that will be associated with that.
We do anticipate given where we are and given the lack of activity that costs that would have been in the system a year ago probably are much -- pardon me are going to be much less as we go forward and firm up those tenders with the field contractor.
Thanks and lastly I know that you are not putting up the budget at the moment but can you just talk broadly as you think about a more cautious approach onshore for 2015 should we assume that means declining rig count in each of your major plays or there are some plays that you see as just strategically and structurally better better than others where it makes more sense to drill through this environment? I have used this term before and I will again use it here.
I will give you a trailer and let you see the movie on March 3rd.
I think that you can expect that there are going to be certain basins in the Wattenberg as weve said over and over again as our best area of returns.
Its certainly an area thats got a great yield associated with production mix.
But it also benefits from the royalty interest or minimal interest that we own there.
So its a unique asset for Anadarko and a unique asset within our industry.
So that area probably does feed on capital a little bit easier and better than others.
But as it relates to just the trailer comment I do mean when I say we just dont see yet the commodity prices being synced up with the service costs that really provide us the types of rates of return and well head economics that I could think of growth as an important factor for 2015.
Generating and creating value and maintaining flexibility in what could be a very difficult year to two years for the industry is probably much more important to us.
Thank you very much.
You bet thank you.
Yes good morning to everyone.
If I could go back to some of the Shenandoah some of the Shenandoah comments I am not sure if I am interpreting this correct but when I look at your cartoon that you had previously in the cartoon that you guys put in your operations report subsequent to this No.
3 appraisal well it looks like perhaps maybe you were surprised by how far down dip that you intersected that section and I understand there is a lot of positive things you learned but it seems to me that that maybe the upper end of your reserve distribution would be curtailed by this result.
I am just kind of looking to see if I am right on that or get more color there.
Yeah Charles Bob again.
After we drilled the Yucatan No.
2 well we realized that there was a velocity a section that gave us a velocity problem in the Oligocene and upper Miocene which we then rolled into our planning for the No.
3 well.
And with that we actually deviated the well to the north and the west to try to get closer to where we would anticipate the oil water contact.
We also got some pressure down at the Yucatan that we could project across without a lot of confidence.
And so we did deviate to the northeast to get closer to that with the section was present [ph] which meant that we were about 300 feet lower than what we anticipated which is nothing at these depths.
So we actually felt like we came in pretty darn close to prognosis.
And then the sand expanded.
So at the lower levels we were farther down dip because of the sand expansion which we did anticipate as we went in.
So as to the upper end of the range you may be right that just the aerial extent based on not just this well but the information from Yucatan pulled us in a little bit on that side of the structure.
But it is not a very significant reduction in the upper end.
And we still think this is a very -- has a potential to be a very large field.
Thats helpful color Bob I appreciate that.
And then Al this could be either for you or perhaps for Chuck.
As we are looking at your CapEx CapEx progression in 15 and versus cash flow it would seem to me that you would be pretty hard pressed to not spend in excess of cash flow in the first half of 15 just because you mentioned earlier that you have contracts and you got to honor them but that there was a -- we maybe should look for balance cash flow versus CapEx in second half of 15 and I don't want to get in to the movie I recognize we're in the trailer but I wonder if you can tell me how you guys are thinking about that? Charles one of the most difficult things to do when you have a call where you going to be going in some detail in the week follows is being able to address constructively a question like yours.
I think you just have to appreciate the fact that everybody has got different price decks and that generate different assumptions around what our cash flows is going to be for the year.
And I think until we've had a chance to review that with our Board and get their concurrence on what that CapEx spend ought to be I am really not in a position this morning to answer your question.
I hope you'll appreciate that answer.
No I recognize and I appreciate your comments.
Thank you for the time.
Your next question comes from David Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly thinking about some of the comments you made in the Q3 call where you highlighted that deepwater is going to continue to be a core strategic focus on the exploration side.
You did about 25 wells give or take in 14.
How do we think about that for 15 knowing that those are longer dated projects and capital today really maybe isn't relevant to the commodity price today other than service cost contractions? Can you give us any color on how that program might shift? David the best way I think Bob Daniels and I can answer your question if you think back to the market conditions in late 2008 and certainly through all of 2009 we were and continue to be during that time a very active explorer in the deepwater.
Maybe we were at the same pace that we were prior to the prices collapsing but we continue to maintain what we thought was the right approach for creating value and in particular option value around what we do at deepwater exploration.
We probably won't drill the same number of wells in 2015 that we did in 13 or 14 but we are going to drill deepwater exploration.
We continue to look at various things and one of the things we look at is where the 16 months contract forward trade is at any point in time and whether or not that gives us a price point to and give us encouragement around this creation of option value.
Bobs is already active in to year with our activities in Colombia and so we anticipate drilling deepwater exploration this year as I mentioned on the last earnings call and despite the fact we're in a market where the near term price for oil is not encouraging of that we still see enough economics around where the 16 month is coupled with the fact that I am not sure anyone believes that by the time we get around to the end of this decade oil is going to be where it is today or if it is service calls are going to be significantly different as it relates to that price discovery.
So Bob you might if you want just give a little bit of foreshadowing on what you see in your exploration portfolio.
Yeah David one thing I would caution you on comparisons is that when we had the success in Mozambique that took an awful lot of appraisal work.
So when you look at the total deepwater wells we were drilling numerous appraisal wells in Mozambique for the last several years.
We finished that program in 2014 and -- very successfully by the way but so that appraisal focus probably will go down.
On the exploration side that we're going to have an active year.
We're drilling in the Gulf of Mexico presently on the Yeti prospect.
We also have just recently over the weekend in fact spud our first well in Colombia where we plan to drill two wells.
That's going to be a very exciting program to watch.
We do anticipate some West Africa exploration and a little bit more East Africa exploration.
We'll roll all that out at the conference or the presentation.
But the focus will be both on the areas that we have trying to find the new play that will be something very significant with some running room.
But we have a lot of flexibility in it too in that we have some that already have partners built into them many times with carries associated with that and we can look at what's the right level for us to go into 2015 and are there people who want to partner with us on some of our opportunities.
So we got flexibility there.
We've been very successful with that program over the years.
Great color.
Appreciate that.
Switching over a little bit to commentary that was within the release through the ops report with low NGL prices there was little bit of ethane rejection taking place can you talk about where that took place and per your comments it sounds like activity in the Wattenberg will be status quo.
Is there any concern if ethane rejection was taking place there that you might have an issue with pipeline restrictions or anything that might impact growth there? Yeah David its all economics right now.
We take it on a plant by plant basis.
What do we most economically manage doing the selling end is is it liquid or a gas and most of the fourth quarter we were in rejection essentially every order at least partially in every plant we had.
So we will continue that process we go through it evaluate it weekly and make elections.
Right now the economics will favor the selling of the gas at least in most cases.
And with regard to takeaway capacity and that type of thing this is -- its on the margin its not significant amount of gas and we are well positioned to evacuate whether its gas or liquid.
Okay thats helpful to know that it doesnt impact pipeline specs at all.
Thanks so much for the color guys.
You bet.
Thanks David.
Yes good morning Al.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just looking at how you think about spending in your capital budget for this year and I know you have got your analyst meeting coming up but it sounds like you are not going to really cut back on spending on long lead time projects there on exploration.
And as we look at onshore North America then you are only operating one rig in the Marcellus.
Delaware Basin is really infrastructure constrained as you continue to delineate that.
The Wattenberg field I think you would say at todays oil price of $50 a barrel depending on whether you are in the land grant acreage or outside it you are getting 30% to 50% rates of return and as we look across your portfolio in Q4 90% of the CapEx was those areas plus the Eagleford.
So one with those sort of returns today in the Wattenberg would you really pull capital from the Wattenberg field and then two the only other area of significant spend thats contributing to growth is the Eagleford.
So at $50 oil whats your rate of return there and with the combination of lower service cost and higher oil prices what is the hurdle rate or rate of return in the Eagleford where you would resume or continue the full program? Bob I know again you like others on the call can appreciate the fact that I very much would love to be able to address your questions specifically but I dont have our capital plans approved by our Board yet.
So our ability as management team to address your questions specifically is fairly limited.
I will go back to a comment I made earlier I think you can anticipate we will have a significant reduction in CapEx year-over-year that will look like its generally in line with what our peers have announced so far.
The granularity around that we will look forward to giving you that on March 3rd and I will apologize if that sounds like I am avoiding your question I am just not really a position this morning to answer.
Okay I guess then just when you say economics are less than attractive what is an attractive hurdle rate when you look across your portfolio and set your budget what is it that you target as a rate of return to be able to spend capital I guess would be the question.
Well the hard thing to be able to answer that question is I dont know what service cost we are going to do through the course of the year.
We may drill some wells and we may look to see what is the concessions we get from the completion services companies provide us in order to whether or not we want to spend the next $0.70 of the dollar that would go into a drilling complete.
And I think the types of things you will see from us will in fact give you an appreciation that we this year will need to be fairly flexible.
We dont anticipate having a worse oil environment in the second half of year.
I think we are sort of inclined to believe that oil will continue to recover.
How much it recovers and how quickly it recovers I am not in a great position or a better position to answer that than anyone else.
But when costs sync up with the new commodity environment that we are in I think that is when we as industry and we as a company will be able to give you the types of color around how much growth we would anticipate having.
In the Wattenberg as I mentioned earlier we have mineral interest and so that mineral interest adds to the economics that we have there thats unique to any asset we have elsewhere in our portfolio.
So just growing without attractive rates of return and without getting into specific rates of return that assume certain service cost with it.
I would say today the best answer I can give you is that our best asset in our portfolio to grow short term or short cycle investing is the Wattenberg.
Okay thanks.
Look forward to March 3rd.
Thanks Al.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
Most questions have been answered.
I have got some onshore ones.
In the Delaware sequentially your CapEx went up quite a bit even though the rig count was sort of the same.
So did you do more completions or was that infrastructure type expenditure? John most of what we've been doing is associated with infrastructure and completions.
We also did some acquisition work in the fourth quarter in the Southeastern portion of the field.
Okay.
With the Marcellus you had Chuck record output.
Are you going to stay at that level or is it because you got an ethane pump or what's going on there? Yeah John.
During the fourth quarter we flowed our wells pretty in-line with what the market would take.
We're down to one rig and we're only using it part time right now.
So I see our volumes plateauing particularly our operated volumes our non-op volumes we are more uncertain on right now.
But wells are performing incredibly well and most of them are flowing at flat rates without much decline yet.
So we'll just see where that goes through the course of the first half of the year or so.
Great thank you.
Thanks John.
Hi good morning.
Al a question for you on if you can talk to this on potential cash in-flows in 2015 be it drop-downs or your latest thoughts on in the royalty or sell-down in Shenandoah and perhaps other examples that you might be thinking about.
I made reference and I'll reiterate the fact that we have been as active and I will even say more active than any of our peers the last six or seven years with active portfolio management.
I mean we are not passive portfolio management we're very active.
What this market gives us in the way of opportunities to monetize some of the option value that we have in our portfolio remains to be seen.
Bob looks at along with lots of other people ways in which to do that on a continuous basis.
I am going to let him give you a little bit of color around some of that.
But I think you can anticipate that while we wont preview with you what we're going to do until we've done it.
It's not been our practice and the history to talk about what we are going to do.
But rather explain what did after we did it.
That will be the case again this year.
All I can say you can expect that our track record of certainly the last six to seven years is one that we will like to lean on again and with that I'm going to turn it over to Bob.
Subhash you mentioned a couple of the things where we feel like we got option value.
I think it's fair to say that we do have some assets in the portfolio that we've identified that we would like to divest out if the price is right during 2015.
It's a matter of continuing to sell assets that are relatively attractive but may not attract capital within the portfolio in coming years.
In addition I think it gets well established that we have a very valuable owner ship position in the WGP equity.
I think it's 88% plus of that entity and we've talked in the past about our expectation of continuing to sell down that position.
I would expect we would do some of that in 2015 as well depending upon market conditions and our desire to enhance liquidity.
As far as the royalty potential for a royalty deal goes of course we continue to keep an eye on it and look at the value there.
It's healthy economics tremendously in the Wattenberg field.
It's adding value everyday and I think in the ops report we showed somewhere around $775 million of aggregate revenue associated with the royalty last year.
Last year we had a lot of option value but in this current environment with oil where it is it's not something that's on the short list that we are looking at in the near term but something that over the time I continue to believe could have some material value as the market showed with a couple of other transaction in a higher oil price environment.
So lots of optionality lots of places we could go for additional liquidity within the portfolio but given the strength of the balance sheet we don't have to act on any of those things and we'll choose to act when and if the time is right and there is an opportunity to enhance value for the shareholders.
Thanks Bob.
It just a follow-up I guess specific to Shenandoah.
There is some I guess rules of thumb rightly or wrongly attributed to you guys.
But one is you tend to sell down or get carried on your big development projects your mega projects and as Shenandoah gets there that looms as a budget item.
But then secondly I think when you -- then if you are down in that 25% 30% working interest range to not to sell down.
I could be completely flawed in my memory at this but how do you think about monetizing your mega project that you havent so far? I think your philosophy is accurate.
When weve had higher working interest it gives us the ability to sell relatively in the case of Lucius and Heidelberg relatively small subset of that working interest that get carried significantly enhance the economics significantly enhance our cash flow position relative to the assets shorten the timeline to payout.
And weve looked to those opportunities pretty aggressively.
When we have smaller working interest obviously we have to consider the materiality of the remaining position going forward and we look at it relative to the other options we have to finance the development of the asset.
Got it okay and a final one for me this is coming off an article that was here in February ET Magazine in Wattenberg and micro seismic that youve done curious what the latest facing arguments are for the Wattenberg? Well we -- this is Chuck we continue to test that and it is very dependent upon where youre on in the field.
Were going to continue to test it over time.
Right now were drilling in the order of 12 to 14 wells per section in the Niobrara and in order of half that at Codell and so its just kind of -- its very dependent upon the geographic area and the geology as well as price.
So we are going to adjust our thinking once we see service cost and commodity prices settle in well make whatever adjustments necessary.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Kind of going back to this working interest thought again it looks like youre carrying a higher non-working interest in to 2015 than is your usual practice.
With this commerciality rising whats more important in 2015 attracting partners or moving the project forward at the pace that you desire? I think it really is prospect or asset specific.
I cant give you a generic answer other than the fact that our history and our pattern of activity has always been to promote during the exploration phase so you reduce some of the risk associated with exploration.
And then when we make a decision to go to [indiscernible] we -- our practice again and pattern of activity has been to promote not again to be carried on the development cost.
So I cant see us changing that recipe.
There could be such circumstances I guess where we might put off some of the risk allocation to one of these two particular areas where I just made reference to but Ill let Bob answer the rest of that.
Yeah I dont know if our working interest is that much higher than typical.
We have different working interest in different areas based on the cost.
The Gulf of Mexico is an expensive well cost and so we tend to take smaller working interest in those areas.
West Africa these wells are relatively inexpensive.
We can hold on to a higher working interest even though we do bring a partner in in the exploration base we can maintain a higher working interest which gives us more flexibility when it comes to the development phase and Paon is a great example where we still have 65% of that asset and we can make some decisions as to what we want to do as we move forward there.
But that depends on the environmental wind and with the individual well cost because its kind of how much exposure do we want the total exploration portfolio.
That was very helpful.
Staying offshore do you have any opportunity to reduce your offshore drilling day rates we cover that basin and we hear there are a number of operators have been approaching the contractors with this sorts of conversations? Well Ill let Jim give you a little more granularity.
I want to reiterate a comment I made earlier and that is where we had contracts were not looking to doing anything other than to honor those contracts and were going to get a comp partner that the service company wants to have from that perspective.
Right and I would just echo what Al said is that our original contract right now have various expiration dates.
So we will be dropping two of those rigs this year in the first half as we end the terms of those rigs.
So well be working with a remaining fleet of six and those are actively engaged in very very good exploration price and the development programs that we have ongoing.
So directly tied to those rigs we dont see a lot of scope unless we chose to farm those rigs out or operate those rigs elsewhere on lower working interest properties but the program is pretty well set right now.
Regarding the services provided on the rig we do see some of the services the smithing [ph] the wire line the mud work and pit supplies to offset those rigs possibly seeing some reductions as those on long term contracts will probably be more representative how the market moves.
And could I add just quickly to that if I might.
The rigs that Jim made reference to that we will have remaining after these two roll off these are really high capability rigs and so consequently they will reduce a lot of the downtime and non-productive time that we would have with a lesser rig.
So while they really are in the contract we are quite happy with the fact that we do have these higher capability rigs under our contract as part of our fleet.
Okay great.
Thanks I appreciate it.
Hey good morning guys.
I just want to go back to the portfolio management issue just real quick.
I mean I wanted to sort of pull back a little bit from the specifics on Shenandoah and just ask if we are in a more of a U shaped oil price environment recovery environment like you guys said you are thinking about -- how does that impact and if we assume that the M&amp;A is going to be more for sellers does that impact how you guys think about the weighting of these mega projects in your portfolio? And obviously would presumably would affect your funding decisions but if you cant sell your carriers for the same kind of price on a potential barrel basis how does that affect your thinking? The best way I can answer that is to-date so the types of things that we have been taking to the market to look to sell down we dont see a deterioration in the market for that.
Some of that may be the fact that its -- we got a good track record of being an operator that brings projects into first production on time and on budget.
So therefore while we cant control what the price environment is going to be at first lifting or first production we do know that our market knows that we are very very good at project management and very good at cost management.
So I cant say yeah we have seen any lack of interest in the types of things that we have historically done.
When the time comes and we look at what we want to do with anything we want to sell down may be those markets will change but for the things that we have today and the things we are considering we still get a lot of inbound interest.
I think you have to look at the fact that the forward curve at least if you go back to the 16 months contract I made reference to earlier thats what I think the market focus is on to in terms of what they are looking at.
And I think even if you look at where the 16 months trades today most people see a lot more upside to that than they do down.
Okay fair enough.
If I can just switch gears then onto the onshore program obviously a lot of people were talking about doing a lot of stuff to improve productivity and capital efficiency last year in various areas things like obviously the longer laterals upsized fracs more intense completions and so on.
Can you guys talk about -- presuming that we are of course in a more strained budget for next year whatever the number is can you talk about how much of that kind of work you would be doing both in terms of testing new concepts number one and then number two applying what you have learned this year in the portfolio.
I mean you guys can be trying to drill more expensive wells and to get the bigger productivity or you can kind of limit that application.
James its Bob here.
We are going to do everything we can to maximize the efficiency of our CapEx.
If that involves continuing to do some experimentation and emphasizing fracs or changing sand or increasing or decreasing injection rates whether it might be we are going to continue to work on our recipes to improve our efficiency.
We have done it both on the completion side and the drilling side and our view is we want to get our cost per foot down while maintaining the maximum EUR per foot.
Its just the balance that we work on to get our economics sound.
Okay if I can just pursue that for one second I mean obviously we are thinking about trying to understand what service cost deflation is going to do to the budgets for everybody across the industry and if you think about expectations that we had six or eight or 10 months ago about particularly proppant costs being source of inflation price inflation risk.
If that is an area that is where deflation is less likely to happen I guess I am trying to figure out whether you guys would do less of upsize fracs because you have speaking of that specifically because you have less savings to repair versus rig rates and so on.
It's very much dependent upon the zone and how the upsizing has affected our EURs depending upon the play you're actually in.
And I think the thing you might just think about from our perspective and maybe this doesnt ring with you but we grew about 90 000 barrels a day last year by continuing to work at capital efficiency with our investments.
And I think you can just rely on the fact that that's what we're going to continue to do.
We're going to continue to work it hard and continue to try to grab as much return as we possibly can of these dollars and fortunately we have some extraordinary land to work on.
So that's what we're going to continue to do and specifics of this is very much dependent upon the play and the outcomes.
It's hard to speculate on what those might be.
Sure.
That makes great sense.
Thanks guys.
And your final question for today will come from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
I just was quickly going to ask given what you said about portfolio management whether you would be -- given the turn of the cycle interested in acquisitions and what kind of acquisitions you might consider.
Thanks.
Yeah absolutely but I don't think we're unique in saying as a large company that's got financial capability and capacity that we'd be looking at acquisitions.
I think we all in our peer group would be looking at this as an environment where if assets come to the market in places where we consider ourselves currently active we're going to be looking to add in to those positions whether they're bolt-on or little bigger than bolt-on.
But I think going into a new play completely is probably way down the list of things that we see ourselves doing and maximizing our potential.
And so I think if you think about the acquisition market what's going to happen there I think we're more of an asset buyer in this market in and around things today where we're active and where we're putting capital towards.
And Bob I don't know anything else to that.
Only think I would add is its opportunity driven it's -- the longer this cycle continues the more opportunities are going to be the more capitulation we might see on the part of sellers and it's one of the reasons that Als comments focused on our desire to be opportunistic and flexible.
And obviously we've got a great portfolio the way it is.
So if see opportunities to enhance the inventory surrounding that portfolio or expand the ability for future growth once commodity prices recover I think we would be fairly aggressive in doing so.
Great.
It's past 10 so I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
Well thank you everybody for joining us and we look forward to you joining us for our conference call on March 3 as we provide the 2015 guidance and key metrics.
Thank you and have a great day and don't hesitate to call if you have any questions.
Bye-bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Anadarko's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I'm your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for training purposes.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Sandra.
Good morning everyone and we're very glad you joined us today for Anadarko's first quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation contains forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today so I encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
In just a moment I'll turn over the call over to Al Walker for some brief opening remarks and we remind you that we have significantly more information and detail in our quarterly operations report available on our website.
And following Al's prepared remarks we'll open up it for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John and good morning.
I'm extremely proud of the way in which our employees have demonstrated a competitive spirit in their energy and focus on enhancing value in these challenging times.
Our drilling teams continue to improve efficiencies across the board highlighted by the cycle time reductions in Wattenberg which improved about 17% over the fourth quarter of last year.
And in the Eagle Ford Shale we're drilling wells in less than seven days.
In both fields new horizontal well performance was outstanding and the benefits we're getting from lower service costs we're seeing significantly improved economics.
The asset teams are also doing a great job of realizing additional volumes by moderating our base production decline.
As a result we've invested less than expected in the quarter and we've delivered sales volumes that surpass the high end of our guidance.
All told the efficiency gains outstanding well performance cost savings and reduced downtime enabled us to increase our full year sales volume guidance by 5 million BOE and to reduce our initial capital spending expectations.
We've also made significant progress in our international and deepwater activities during the quarter.
We achieved first oil at Lucius and rates continue to ramp towards capacity.
Also in the Gulf Heidelberg is moving forward on schedule.
The spar is ready to sail to location in the coming weeks and two rigs are currently drilling developmental wells.
Development activity remains on schedule offshore Ghana at the TEN complex which is more than 55% complete.
Additionally we are very excited about the recently announced Yeti oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico and are planning appraisal activities.
Shifting to the financials we ended the quarter having approximately $2.3 billion of cash on hand which should be further bolstered by proceeds from our $700 million EOR monetization that closed subsequent to quarter-end.
Our cash position and access to liquidity as well as ongoing portfolio management activities have us well-positioned in the current environment as we recognized recently with two upgrades on our credit ratings.
We carried a significant amount of momentum into the first quarter maximizing our operating results and continuing to safely and creatively find ways to reduce costs.
I believe we're making prudent decisions in the current environment and we're taking the actions that are needed in order to put us on the right path to preserve and enhance value today while ensuring that we're ready to accelerate activity when the market returns for the better.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
Thank you.
Okay we have a first question for you and this one's from Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
Great work on the Eagle Ford and Wattenberg and maybe kind of diving into that a little bit.
The efficiency gains looked larger than they have been in the past even on year-over-year comparisons.
Is that really a result more of high-grading drilling crews and completion crews et cetera or is that something else that's taking place under the hood? Any kind of color you could give us on that would be great.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Dave.
This is Chuck it's a great question.
We're really excited about those efficiency gains so that gives us a lot of opportunity to use our capital more efficiently as you would know.
There's a lot of things that are working in our favor right now.
You've mentioned one of them where there's some high-grading of crews and rigs and those type of things as well as just the continuation of a process of improvement where we see the best performance out of each well and we make sure we use those parameters in our drilling process going forward.
And it's just continuous improvement and it's  we work on that every day and the guys and gals in the field have just done a great job getting her done.
Okay appreciate that.
If we think about that a little bit more how should I think about that in terms of maybe secular improvement versus cyclical improvement that's taking place as a result of lower service cost and as you highlight high grading of the crews? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well there's a good chance that  as we've done for years now is we'll continue to improve these things.
We're testing some additional processes that make our drilling faster and more efficient in Wattenberg as well the Eagle Ford.
So I would think that you'll continue to see these.
The rate of change is always dependent upon our creativity and execution and we're going to work really hard on those to make sure that we can do the best job we possibly can.
So I foresee it continuing.
I've always thought we're pushing toward the later innings but these guys have continued to prove me wrong.
So I'm excited about how things are going.
And I know we have some really good opportunities that are in the queue that we're going to execute on and see how they work out.
And lastly on the thought of that same continuous improvement and increasing operating efficiencies and returns service companies have highlighted people exploring refracs in place where you've been drilling for a while like the Wattenberg and Eagle Ford.
Can you talk a little bit about how you guys are looking at refracs at this juncture? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah we've been looking at it.
We have the opportunity of course with the well count that we have to look for those opportunities.
And frankly we're being very cautious about expanding our production profile in this market and looking for the best economic alternatives.
And right now we see that as a good forward option in our portfolio which is just going back in there  much like we did in the vertical wells in Wattenberg we refracked those.
We see that as an opportunity.
We'd like to see the technology improve and get enhanced some and make it more predictable but we're going to hold that as a long option.
Great.
Appreciate the color.
Great work and good start to the year.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Staying onshore my first question positive production and base decline improvements and reducing line pressures in the Wattenberg on the upstream and midstream.
Is that part of  is that one-off or a part of a broader plan focusing on base production that might yield more results in 2015? Any color there? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well Evan I think it  it's not a one-off.
It's a lot of great work with a bunch of folks that are really working hard to make sure we get everything we can out of our wells and that type of thing.
As we've slowed down the drilling program we've had less timed (8:50) outs for instance which has given us an opportunity to improve our run times on our base wells.
Once you get these things up and running you're hitting the maximum production and when you're in the transients you don't get the maximum production and that's how we've managed to get some of this  compressor enhancements.
We've also  it has given us a chance to kind of get ahead of the drilling program and get plenty of infrastructure in place and that's particularly true  it's particularly true in Wattenberg and the Eagle Ford and to a lesser extent West Texas.
So all those things come together and it's a thousand really good decisions by our field guys and they have just done a bang-up job finding all the value out there and that's what we've asked them to do.
Shifting gears to offshore several potential projects approaching FID in Mozambique ultimately Shenandoah Cte d'Ivoire you mentioned in your ops report.
How do you think about moving into FID in these projects in the current environment? And are you prepared to take them assuming they're matured into FID at current interest levels versus your prior practice in monetizing and getting a carry which you can see the benefits in this quarter? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> This is Jim and it's another good question.
We've got several projects that are in various phases of appraisal or in the phases of development.
Let me just pick each one and talk about that individually.
So Mozambique we're very very pleased with the progress that we've been making on all aspects of the development.
Our reserve certifications have advanced through the appraisal drilling as we've expected.
We've been successful in placing over 8 million tons in non-binding heads of agreement for LNGs off-take and sales.
We've gotten tremendous uptake in the lending markets for project financing and we're approaching our 60% targets for gearing.
So all the things that are moving forward on Mozambique are towards advancement to FID.
We're still working with the government which is in transition but progressing very well as far as the pace of agreements that we need to finalize our plan of development and submit that later this year.
If those go well which we anticipate they will we'd be looking at FID decision later this year into next year.
So in the Gulf of Mexico you referenced a couple of exploration appraisal projects that we've got.
Let me turn it over to Bob Daniels regarding the Yeti exploration well that will begin appraisal and some discussion about the Paon well in West Africa.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Sure this is Bob.
In Shenandoah you mentioned we're trying to get that  all the information that we need to make that decision and that's going to mean another appraisal well's going to spud here in the second quarter.
It's typically a 120-day well.
We're moving off to the Northwest of the 1 000 foot of pay that we found in Shenandoah number two.
So we're looking forward to getting that information looking for reservoir continuity fluid just really confirm the overall oil in place volumes that we have there so that we can then really start rolling that into development planning.
You'd mentioned Yeti where we had a discovery we're going to be appraising that later this year.
And looking forward to that we've already drilled a downdip sidetrack to it.
And then over in Cte d'Ivoire we have the Paon discovery we drilled a couple of wells last year both successful.
We're going to come back this year and drill another well and put pressure gauges in two existing wells and do a extended drill-stem test to look for reservoir continuity deliverability those types of things that will really help start defining what that project looks like and really help advance towards that FID decision.
So we got a lot of work and the whole focus that we have on these projects is how do we get them there as quick as possible while making good investment decisions along the way.
Great.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Seems like you have a lot of flexibility to raise or lower your completion and drilling activity levels that can drive a wide outcome of where production could end up being relative to the sequential declines coming in future quarters implied by your capital reductions and guidance.
Can you talk to what milestones that you are looking for from an oil price or further cost reduction perspective? Do you either increase completions or drilling activity and the impact that you would see on 2016 versus your long-term production objectives? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
This is Al.
Let me see if I can attack your question with some good answers.
First I'm sure you have more appreciation than most that these plays are not price-specific in a generic way.
Everything's got its own characteristics and own reservoir uniqueness.
So there's not really a price point by which we would say oh we're now back into a growth mode.
I think what we would say is that we need to see higher oil prices than we have today.
But most importantly they need to be higher and they need to look  appear to us to be sustained.
I think we still have some concerns that as we achieve higher prices we could see activity increase and prices unfortunately could suffer as a result of higher production than people are anticipating.
So we're going to be a little careful in terms of adding to that production number.
We  if we need to we'll continue to drill and add to inventory until we're convinced that we're actually going to get good rates of return at the wellhead with that capital on the margin.
So that's why we lowered our capital in part; we certainly have a lot of efficiencies that we achieved in the first quarter.
But we also are not prepared and I don't feel like it's likely in the latter half of this year that we'll increase capital unless the markets for commodities do something today that we don't anticipate.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then you've spoken in the past about the need and likelihood of industry consolidation.
As a company that's (15:20) very active in portfolio management with the recovery that we've had in oil prices and valuations wondered if you see attractive opportunities to add materially to your portfolio? And then on the flip side how are you thinking about the synergies or comparative advantages that you see to combine either individual assets or beyond with larger companies like the majors? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly in January at your conference I think the outlook was pretty dire for what commodity prices and oil in particular could look like for the balance of the year.
Prices are a little higher than I would've anticipated in January.
We have an awful lot of capital sitting on the sidelines waiting to go into our industry.
Whether it's private equity the public capital markets or other forms of capital that  sound like the mushroom is starting to get over $100 billion waiting to go into our industry broadly defined.
So it may be a situation where we've got a lot of capital chasing few early opportunities.
So I'd say early on where we have opportunities to add to assets where we're active in particular the Wattenberg the Delaware basin or in the Eagle Ford.
We would like to add to that where we think it makes good sense.
But I also would caution that comment quickly to say it's got to be a deal that really makes a lot of sense to us because otherwise we're pretty happy with the inventory we've got and opportunities have to look attractive on the margin relative to the way in which we would feed capital into our current portfolio.
From a broader M&amp;A perspective I'm not sure there's a lot of takeaways from the Shell-BG deal that would be a read-through for the rest of us.
I think that really is a strategic call on Shell's part for wanting to be more in the LNG business and I'm sure that will over time with the hindsight that a couple of years from now will provide it was probably a good move for them to increase something they're particularly good at.
I'm not sure that's the beginning of a lot of additional consolidation in our industry.
But in January I thought we would be in this trough for a lot longer.
And it looks like we're coming out of it a little sooner from a price standpoint although I'm still pessimistic and I think we are as a management team that we're going to have real robust prices for oil this year and so you might start to see it later this year into next some of the development in M&amp;A that you're making reference to that'd be my guess.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Doug Leggate and he's from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I wonder if I could try a couple also and may I say Chuck it's good to hear you on the call and congratulations.
We'll miss you.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
Maybe I could kick off with you then to make the most of you still being here.
So the comment in the ops report about 70% improvement in the initial rates out of the Eagle Ford was that just a kind of this-quarter or is that something you're seeing as repeatable? And if so is it translating through to the  I guess is it holding up through the type curve I guess? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Doug.
It's actually  I think this is something that's fairly sustainable.
What we've done is in the past a considerable amount of experimentation with different completion designs and looking over the fence seeing everybody else was doing it and try to make sure we ride on the efficient frontier with our completion cost our spacing and how the wells are performing.
And I'm not saying we cracked the code or anything but I think we have made a substantial move forward with that experimentation.
And we've added some sand to our completions that I think have helped.
And we learned to pump them a little different and optimize the use of the energy that we have from the frac job.
So all that I think is just to help us to make a step-up in our completion value and the first indication of that of course is rate but the long haul is how the wells perform in their decline phase and early on these look really really strong.
So we're excited about them.
We're going to use that in all our basins where it applies.
And so along with the industry I think we're all taking a step forward with regard to these completion designs and getting the most out of what we put in the ground.
Okay.
I appreciate the full answer.
Maybe just a touch forward on Chuck.
What's happening to the cost of those wells with the change in design? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well there's several things that are going on.
As you're aware that service costs in general have come down substantially.
We've added some product in the mix but then in addition to those we've seen some fairly significant gains in the process which has allowed us to do it quicker and cheaper.
And for instance out in the Wattenberg field we reduced our cost down to $3.4 million and then in the Eagle Ford they've come down as well from $5.1 million to $4.4 million.
So those are all big gains for us but it's a combination  it's the net effect of lower service cost better processes and then you add back in some of the additional energy and sand that we put in the well.
I appreciate that.
My follow-up is probably either for Al or Bob but the balance sheet at the end of the quarter now you put Tronox out of the way I guess is obviously higher than it's been in terms of metrics for quite some time but I think you described 2015 as a big year for asset monetization.
So I wonder if you could walk us through how you see some of the major moving parts and as best as you can given the obvious limitations if you could offer some commentary as to whether you are exploring or testing the market on your Mozambique position and whether in fact there is (21:31) I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Doug Bob and I will try to tackle your question.
Let me address something that seems to float around from time to time and as we all know rumors are simply  oftentimes just that.
As it relates to Mozambique we're not in discussions with anybody.
We've never hired a banker to run a process and our focus is totally and completely on getting this plan of development submitted to the government later this summer early fall.
We have several things contractually we're working on to be able to get that put in place with the government.
And as Jim made reference earlier we're quite pleased with the way this new administration has been working with us.
We've made significant progress to date and still have a few things to get done prior to getting that plan of development submitted.
Our intent and our expectation is we will be getting other things announced here fairly soon related to the onshore development of the LNG park and we have every expectation that later in this decade to have our first lifting for what we believe has got to be one of the largest gas discoveries in the world in the last three years and it will significantly change not only the landscape for how this country will be able to be a part of the world in the future but it will also change to some extent the way in which LNG and the markets associated will develop.
Mozambique has the ability to send LNG to both the Pacific and the Atlantic basin so it's geographically quite advantaged.
And as you know depending upon how we kit out these wells they're going to be 200 million cubic feet of gas to 300 million cubic feet of gas a day producers so we have a fairly significant cost advantage over lots of other sources of LNG as this becomes very significant particularly during the 2020 period or that decade.
So I hope that helps create a little bit of fact relative to a lot of fiction.
And you're right we do have some things that we're looking at doing with portfolio management and the balance sheet.
Bob can address those here in just a second.
But any concerns or speculation or views that we're trying to monetize this particular asset are just not there.
We're not in discussions and we have not hired a banker to run a process and again there's a lot of speculation about that but our job today is totally focused on getting this project advanced.
Doug it's Bob.
Beyond that we do have several assets in the portfolio that we would look to monetize this year.
I think it's clear that certain of those assets just don't compete for capital relative to the other assets in the portfolio that have been driving performance and are going to get the bulk of the capital moving forward.
Al mentioned how much capital is chasing deals in the market today.
That's created what I believe is clearly a sellers' market currently.
If that persists through the year I think we should be successful in our efforts on those individual assets.
That's obviously going to help the balance sheet metric you referred to earlier.
That metric's higher this quarter not just because we took the Tronox  the cash off the balance sheet to make the Tronox payment  but the write-down primarily in Greater Natural Buttes obviously changes that metric fairly substantially as well.
That said we're comfortable with the overall level of debt.
If you look to us on a debt-to-EBITDA basis I think obviously EBITDA is down a little bit this year but if you look over a trailing 12 months' basis or on prospective basis we feel comfortable that the leverage level is easily manageable and we always have the optionality to go beyond just the traditional E&amp;P asset sales and continue to monetize portions of our WGP holding.
So lots of flexibility around how to manage the balance sheet no significant cash cost to that debt burden from an interest standpoint.
And I think frankly the way we're doing it now with using the balance sheet and having the optionality around selling assets and monetizing WGP is far more efficient for our shareholders than for instance issuing equity to fund deficit spending or something which as we made clear last quarter isn't on the radar screen for us today.
That was  I appreciate the very full answer.
Thanks very much indeed.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
I was going to ask about the reports in the press about the Mozambique process but I think you pretty comprehensively answered that one.
Could I just ask you...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Paul I'm really happy to  Paul I'm very happy to hear you say that.
Yeah.
I think you addressed it.
One outstanding one for me would simply be how you're viewing the future strip in your hedging program.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll answer that in part and let Scott Moore who handles not only our marketing but our positions that we take with derivatives.
I think you've heard us say many many times I'll just repeat it again we think of hedging as just balance sheet insurance.
And we try every year to think at the right times to maybe have as much as half of our commodity exposure hedged just for that reason.
As it relates to the current curves and what's out there obviously in the contango market it's a little harder to say oh we want to hedge.
But with that let me turn it over to Scott let him talk a little bit about what we think is out there in the market and how that translates into derivative activity.
Sure.
Thanks Al.
We do actively monitor the foreign markets and look at stabilizing our cash flow for balance sheet protection as Al said.
With the foreign market for natural gas being still relatively weak due to the really tremendous production growth in the fourth quarter carrying over into the first we would like to see that market tighten up and see that will put some modest improvement in the forward pricing which might give us more opportunities later versus the current valuations.
And we're pleased to see a little strength in the oil markets.
Still I would say a bit cautious in terms of capital discipline in the industry and selling into any rallies.
So we continue to look at this against our balance sheet and cost structure and if we see things that are attractive into next year we would carry forward with that.
Thanks  sorry.
The only thing I'd add is to keep in mind how we view hedging from a tactical standpoint in that we're generally looking to protect longer cycle spend with longer lead times for instance in our exploration portfolio or our megaprojects around the world.
And we feel comfortable those are funded going forward.
We feel comfortable with our current outlook for cash flow.
And as we mentioned previously our balance sheet and our assets hold capabilities to fund those things.
So with that flexibility locking in hedges at marginally better economics doesn't really materially change the economic profile for us.
If we saw the opportunity to lock in some material cash flows and materially better economics then maybe that would make more sense for us going forward.
Great.
That to me is very clear.
Thank you.
Paul thanks.
Did you have another question? No.
Once again my follow-up you actually kind of answered it with your follow-up so thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and apologies for pronunciation.
This one's from Subash Chandra and he's from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
That was very well done.
Thanks.
A couple of asset questions and one financial one.
From I think Bob's review of the offshore projects is it safe to say that Shenandoah and Paon are in the final stages of delineation? I supposed some of that is going to depend on these wells but it sounds like a DST or something we're closer to the end.
Second is for the onshore shale assets how you feel about lateral targeting and optimizing that; if you feel that that work is well-developed or in its infancy relatively? And then finally as I look at the E&amp;P sector there's a lot of focus on cash flow neutrality.
I wonder though that  in what scenario you might think either Anadarko or the sector might actually have to de-lever over time? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Subash what I would suggest is Bob will handle your first question Chuck will take your second and I'll tackle the third.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right.
Subash on the appraisal work yeah this is going to be the fourth well in Shenandoah and when we go into these appraisal programs we start working with the development teams.
They put in a group to do some pre-development work and to help define what data we need.
And so where would be the best place to locate these wells it's not just simply to focus on oil in place or something like that.
So there's an awful lot of work that's gone into defining what data we still need to get to that FID decision and the Shenandoah 4 is focused on really moving us  and advancing us in that direction.
I think we're planning on getting a core there in the oil column.
We're going to be up-dip to the 1 000 feet of pay that we had and so that will really help with some of the modeling going forward.
And it's very similar in Paon we're drilling the number 5 well this year so we've got significant amount of lateral appraisal and really we're looking at deliverability and connectivity and that gives you a lot more confidence than in what your actual development plan should be and how economic the field could be.
And so we do think that with both of these wells we're going to have a real step-up in our knowledge.
And with the integration of the development teams doing the pre-development work we're going to be in a very good position to make the call as to whether we want to advance towards the FID do an additional appraisal well whatever it may be based on the results of these wells.
But we're moving them forward very aggressively.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Subash this is Chuck on the  with regard to the targeting it's an excellent question.
We put it in the mix of all the things we're trying to optimize.
And what we've seen with the targeting is certain strata have faster rate of penetrations lower frac initiation pressures greater load recovery and IPTs.
So we're trying to optimize all of that to get the best economics out of these wells.
So we're doing a considerable amount of work on that and deciding how to stack the laterals if we do target particular intervals.
So there's a lot in this to try to push your way out on that efficient frontier and targeting is just one element of it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Subash on your question of delevering I'm assuming that you're talking about companies moderating to eliminating their deficit free cash flow spending.
I think what you're seeing as an the industry we're still in a fairly negative free cash flow environment for most companies.
That's one of the reasons I think you should take from the comments from this morning.
We're fairly cautious because we don't quite yet see service cost synced up to the environment that we're in from a hydrocarbon price perspective.
Until we start to see more of that synchronization we're going to be pretty cautious.
I think most of our industry will be fairly cautious.
There probably will be some that made  decide to take a bet and thinks that prices are going to run up and they're going to get ahead of it with their operations.
We won't be one of those.
As it relates to just being able to fund activities I think Bob Gwin made a good comment a few minutes ago that I just want to go back and reemphasize and I think most of you guys know this quite well.
With WGP we have additional liquidity beyond the cash as well as the lines of credit we have if we want to seek over time to reduce that position and I think we've been pretty clear.
Our intent's not to own as much of WGP as we do today and we see WGP giving us the ability to go into the market from time to time and use the cash that we see from that to put back into our operations and in particular things that we've seen that are good investments for us where the environment creates a good rate of return.
I think over time it's hard to argue about the fact that we've been pretty aggressive at managing our portfolio and monetizing things and the varied (34:38) rate of return since it's the way in which we deploy capital.
So as we come out of WGP we'll continue to think about that and how we're going to put that capital to work.
But from a leverage perspective I think the industry probably until we see service calls sync up with an environment where people can grow and grow with either a neutral free cash flow or a positive free cash flow we all ought to be pretty cautious as to where we are in general.
Hope that answers that question.
No it certainly does all three of them.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up.
Just curious on the Monument prospect if that is important to sizing up Shenandoah or is that a distinct prospect? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think we know enough about Shenandoah from a development standpoint at this juncture.
We're still in the appraisal process of understanding what we've got so we don't even have a good assessment today of what we think would be the cost to take Shenandoah to development.
I think until we look at that and understand it better any commentary from us about what we were going to do with Shenandoah would be premature.
Understood.
Thank you Al.
Okay.
We have another question for you and this one's from David Tameron from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dave.
Al just on the service  if I think about your numbers on the quarter and some of the capital efficiency you're talking about.
Is there any way you can break down how much of that is service-cost related what are you seeing as far as your own operational efficiencies? Is there any way to split that and what have you seen thus far? I guess what's your numbers first far as service cost reductions if I look at 1Q? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah David.
This is Chuck.
I don't think I'd go into the exact figures and stuff.
I think the thing you can look at to give you an idea of what that split is is if you look at the drilling times in Wattenberg in the Eagle Ford that gives you a good idea what's process-oriented.
And then associated with efficiency process and efficiency and the rest of it is service cost reductions.
So the combination has given us a really nice boost in this lower commodity prices to still provide some reasonable economics in our better plays and we hope to continue to work on our processes to improve them.
The reason  I don't think a solid number is good right now is because it's moving on us.
We continue to see additional process improvements and we continue to see some improvement in our service cost.
So both are working in our favor right now and both are improving the economics even in this poor commodity market.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave can I just add to that real quick? No go ahead.
Go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think there'll be a day when it'll be clearer in terms of where the costs and efficiencies are particularly coming from.
But we spent a little bit of time on the call this morning talking about some of things that we're doing differently as a company in the field that are improving our efficiencies around how long it takes us to drill a well or the types of completions that we're employing.
And then we also work collectively and collaboratively with our service providers where we can to reduce cost.
So it really is at this juncture still a work in progress.
Okay.
And then if I think about bigger picture  if and when I guess service costs come back in line with what you're expecting Scott alluded to the capital discipline and obviously there's some smaller and mid-cap players that probably have marginal acreage.
But if let's say oil goes back to $65 tomorrow second half of the year do you think that the service costs  or the service companies are in position to ramp and meet the industry activity level just given how deep they'd cut if everybody decides fourth quarter hey let's start ramping for 2016? Is there going to be a lag period and do you risk the potential for service cost inflation headed into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know for those companies that might choose to be more active the second half of the year because they believe prices are going to be higher than they are today and believe they could continue to achieve service costs reduction so that they get a good rate of return I'm assuming they're thinking about how they run their business in a way where rate of return means a lot to them.
The service companies themselves have not really to-date shown us inability to deliver services not only in a timely manner but in a very quality manner.
In fact we're seeing tremendous support from the service sector.
I'm not currently concerned about it but our activity level as an industry is substantially less as you well know than it was even six months ago and substantially less or so  than a year ago.
The service industry I think like the upstream business has the ability where the economics support it to do the right thing and provide the right service at the right cost.
I think from our perspective we just need to continue to monitor that synchronization of service costs and hydrocarbon prices in a way where we think on a sustained basis we can get a good rate of return.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Nice quarter.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from James Sullivan from Alembic Global Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Just wanted to go back to Cte d'Ivoire for one second.
There have been a couple questions on it but I just wanted to ask so you guys post the DST are there other hurdles to a go-forward decision for FID besides the underground stuff? Is there  how's the work the situation with the government or are there any other limiting factors that would  that you guys have to get over to get to sanctioning the project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I think at this point it's really technical and commercial internally.
Our relationship with the government of Cte d'Ivoire has been excellent.
The government's been very responsive.
In fact we went in and asked for a two-year extension to give us more time to get the appraisal work done so that we could put  submit a very good plan of development should we end up at that outcome.
And they were amenable to that.
They really would like to see another development.
They have internal needs for the cash and also for any hydrocarbons that may come into shore.
They're very very supportive of everything we've been trying to accomplish out there.
They have an existing oil and gas industry there with production and a ministry and oil company in Petroci that understands the needs of the operators and is very flexible about helping the operators be successful and therefore Cte d'Ivoire be successful.
So from the onshore side we're in a very good situation.
Okay.
Great.
That's really helpful.
Just to switch then over into the onshore arena.
You guys had a couple of announcements about Permian midstream pieces I think pipeline in the gas processing.
Can you guys just comment on what you think remains necessary on the systems and infrastructure and midstream side before the Permian is ready to kick into high gear? And I would  obviously you could take the question as commodity-agnostic.
I know we're looking at the likelihood of some volatility and you guys have really emphasized that you want to be cautious looking ahead.
But just on the system side taking no account of the oil price how far are you along there on the capacity side to being ready to rig it up there? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Jim good question.
We're very excited about our Permian basin assets.
The Wolfcamp in particular has just shown tremendous upside for us.
So much like we did in Wattenberg we made some strategic moves to capture what we viewed as critical infrastructure in the Permian Basin the Delaware portion of the Permian Basin.
And they included the Nuevo plan as I think you're alluding to as well as the  what we call the DBJV which is a  it's a pipeline asset so we put together a really nice grid.
If you go into our operating report you can see that grid.
And what that grid does is allow us to develop our substantial acreage position out there very efficiently and effectively without long runs on incremental pipes.
The combination of those two pieces of infrastructure along with our position in the Mi Vida plant that's starting up here now has given us a very nice very efficient quick-response type of position within the basin.
And so we really are waiting on commodity prices.
At the end of the day we're in a really good position with infrastructure.
It still has a lot of work to do to upgrade it to continue the expansion that would keep up with the drilling program.
But it's given us a great footprint.
And if you look back at the Wattenberg story you'll see a very similar move and very effective move for us.
So I think we're in a good spot.
We have a lot of opportunity for upside to capture the full value chain out there and that's what we set out to do and I'm very proud of what we've accomplished.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Can I  this is Al  let me add to the fact that I think Chuck has done an incredible job of synchronizing our midstream and upstream business.
Our ability to add value over things that we control in the midstream space is incredible.
You look at what we did in Wattenberg and boy it's just a blueprint for how you do it right.
That was under the direction of Chuck and a lot of good people that work with him every day but at the same time I think few companies understand the need as well as have the ability to execute the way in which they combine their midstream and their upstream and understanding you need to control both.
And I think that's one of the reasons you see such good success from our standpoint from the Wattenberg field versus other operators in the field.
And we hope to do that again in the Delaware and certainly feel like we've done a pretty good job of that as well in the Eagle Ford with the way in which we've handled our midstream there as well.
Okay guys.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from  apologies for pronunciation  David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys and thanks.
As I look back at first quarter you guys are much closer to cash flow and CapEx balance than many of your peers and Al you've been pretty clear on your outlook and your outspend for the rest of the year.
As you think about positioning into year-end can you talk about how you build a backlog of drilled uncompleted wells in Wattenberg and Eagle Ford how that brings you closer to cash flow balance but maybe more importantly how it could impact your outlook for activity levels and growth in a commodity price recovery? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well you can expect given the way in which we're allocating capital this year David you're going to see dry gas continue to decline sequentially each quarter.
We anticipate the exit rate for this year for oil to be relatively flat year-over-year.
So if you think about that from a rate standpoint and you think about what we have in inventory when we see prices really give us the right rate of return at the wellhead we're prepared to go back into a mode we've been in historically.
I think we are taking a very cautious view and trying to do what we believe is the right thing in an environment where creating and adding value is more important than growth.
And I'm not worried that when the day comes and we want to have growth that we can hit that accelerator again.
But I'm pretty proud of the fact that when we look at our exit rates for oil production we're going to be pretty flat year-over-year and the decline's largely going to come from just dry gas which as you well know it really doesn't have a lot of economics today and hopefully natural gas prices in the U.S.
will improve through the balance of the decade as some of this goes out of our country through LNG and that commercial industrial demand picks up.
But I think that's kind of where we are today.
And I'm not worried about getting back into a growth mode when we see higher prices that look sustainable and that will give us a good rate of return over the production profile of the field at the asset.
And I guess that is the point of the drilled uncompleted backlog.
What is the rate of return or do you have a thought on inventory around that drilled uncompleted backlog in the Wattenberg? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In terms of what's an optimal amount or what our expected amount...? Where do you think you will be yeah exactly an expected amount of...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think back in March recall we thought we would end the year at about 125 wells.
That may increase another 25 thereabout if we don't see the type of sustained higher price environment I was making reference to.
So a modest build from where we were in March but not a lot.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Bob Brackett from Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
A quick couple.
One on the Powder River farm-out is that farm-out the entire strat column or is it limited to certain zones? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It is limited to certain zones Bob.
Which are those? U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It's those below the coalbed methane.
Got you.
And for Yeti the area under closure looks comparable to Big Foot or Cascade.
Is that a reach or should we assume comparable oil in place? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Bob I'd say at this point we don't know.
That's why we have to drill the appraisal wells.
With the one point and the area that we have you could get the visual but I think you have to get more on the sand distribution and continuity across that overall structure so we're going to be appraising it later.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one's from Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
With the operational improvements you've outlined has there been a change to your view on what the base decline is for the company and then subsequently what you view as a maintenance CapEx to hold production flat going forward? Okay.
Both of those are pretty understandable questions and I appreciate your asking them.
I think back in March we told you we thought we had about a $3 billion spend to be able to maintain capital or to have a maintenance CapEx number.
That number is now down to $2.7 billion to maybe $2.9 billion so we've lowered that threshold in this process.
And as that  some of that has to do with the fact that we've done a great job to-date reducing the base decline.
Our guys and gals that handle that part of our assets have just done a phenomenal job.
I'm sure there's going to be continued improvement as we've begun to focus on it in the last quarter.
As we moved away from growth we found a lot of things that had been very positive.
And I think that you should continue to expect we'll find ways to reduce the type of decline we've had in our base historically and that's probably one of the real benefits  if there's a benefit of $50 $60 oil it's focusing on trying to do what you do every day less expensively and better and improve your efficiency.
And our ability to improve our efficiency around our base decline is probably one of the real super positives that came out of the first quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then just taking a look at the CapEx outlook obviously lowering the high end.
Given the increased drilling efficiencies and the additional service cost reductions that you guys have outlined that you received in March post the  when the guidance was set could you discuss the thoughts on only moderately reducing the CapEx guidance and how much flexibility is built in to that outlook? There's lot of -bit of (51:31) flexibility in that outlook.
We watch that fairly closely if we see oil prices further back up through the course of the second half of the year we would drill and put more than the approximately 25 that I made reference to earlier that we expect to add to the drilled but not completed category.
We have no interest in adding to an oversupplied market with production that doesn't give us a good rate of return.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
We have another question for you and this one comes from John Herrlin from Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Just a quick one for Chuck since you are leaving us.
You've been through a lot of cycles Oryx Kerr-McGee Anadarko deepwater shales conventional.
When you look at the different play types the industry has pursued from a planning perspective is it more difficult to manage something that is iterative with the shales or deepwater given relative infrastructure-type risk? How do you view  how the business has changed over time in your career? A fluff question.
U.S.
Onshore Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> John great question.
It's been a great ride through all of that.
There are different challenges in each one of them.
The thing that we found is as we study on these and prepare to execute these programs we get the right folks on it and the right service support we've been successful.
And we worked really hard as a company to get the right vendors tied into us and the right folks onboard within the company make sure we had the right talent attacking these problems.
And as long as we go at it right as long as we attack it right and as long as we have the support from the vendors community that we've always enjoyed and there're so many great ones out there that  each of them have their individual challenges but each of them you can accomplish if you go at it right.
Thanks Chuck.
Last one from me is Thorvald.
When will that TD? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah John.
Thorvald's probably got a couple months two months maybe.
We're about halfway down.
It's a 30 000-foot well so we got a ways to go.
All right.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right thank you.
I have no more questions for you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well operator thank you.
I'd like to close with a couple of things.
One I'd really like to take a moment and thank Chuck and Cathy Douglas who are both here this morning who we announced last week were going to retire.
Both have had incredible impacts on our company socially culturally and operationally.
To use a sports analogy we are not going to replace them we're going to reload.
You cannot replace Cathy and you cannot replace Chuck.
But I'm pretty confident we can reload and do things the way we've been doing it because we have a tremendous culture.
We have a great organization but we're going to truly miss both of them.
So from all of us it will be very difficult to be on these calls in the future and not have both of them around the table.
And the last thing I want to just continue to emphasize is that we are in this environment really seeking value.
We're going to continue to look for value we're not going to look for growth and we're going to maintain flexibility so that when the markets do give us that right opportunity to go back into a growth mode we're ready.
But I think this will be one of the last companies you see trying to grow in a market where there's as much uncertainty as we believe there is in terms of the expected rates of return that would come from a price environment today that looks a little choppy.
So I know you guys have a busy day.
Appreciate everyone dialing in this morning loved the questions and we'll talk to you in a quarter.
Thanks so much.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Dan.
Good morning everyone and we're very glad you could join us today for Anadarko's second quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
And a significant  a number of factors could affect our results materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
Additionally we have provided more detail in the Quarterly Operations Report on our website.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and we'll open up the lines in a few minutes for Q&amp;A with Al and our executive team.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John.
And I think as you recall from our first quarter earnings call we've approached this year with caution given the volatility of commodity prices and as an opportunity for Anadarko to capitalize on the depth and strength of our portfolio.
The achievements to date have far surpassed our expectations and this is largely a result of the efforts and commitments of our employees.
We continue to focus on enhancing cash margins and portfolio value which has resulted in tremendous growth in our higher margin oil sales volumes.
Full-year sales volumes are expected to be above our initial guidance by approximately 20 000 barrels per day with reductions in nearly every expense category and continued strong safety performance.
More specifically we've driven our drilling cost down in the Wattenberg field by almost 35% in the last six months and doubled our rig efficiency over the last year drilling the same number of wells with half the rigs.
In the Delaware Basin we've reduced drilling costs by about $0.5 million per well and completions by nearly 45% year-over-year.
Our efficiencies and savings will enable us to drill more than 100 wells this year with our current capital expectations and with no belief that we're going to increase our capital plans beyond initial guidance through the balance of the year.
In addition to the short-cycle successes I just described we are also continuing to make excellent progress on our mid-cycle opportunities while achieving strong results with our deepwater exploration program.
Of particular note in Colombia we are very excited about the potential of our first well in this offshore frontier basin.
As mentioned in our Ops Report we have encountered 130 feet to 230 feet of net pay what we believe to be in a natural gas prone objective.
With additional work once we've finished the well we'll better understand this discovery.
Our drilling operations are continuing as we're now looking to test the next lower objective.
Along with our partner Ecopetrol we look forward to further updates on our Kronos well once we've completed it and moved the rig to our next prospect about 100 miles away.
About two weeks ago I had the opportunity to visit with President Nyusi in Mozambique.
We discussed the excellent progress that has been made by all parties in the negotiation of various agreements supporting the plan of development to be submitted in the coming months.
We are very encouraged with these developments and how they position the project for FID following government approval of the POD.
Turning to the financial results we finished the quarter again in very strong financial condition as you can see from our earnings release.
This financial position was enhanced by accelerating more than $575 million of value from our MLP franchise through a secondary sale of WGP units and an innovative structure for WGP-Linked Tangible Equity Units which we believe to be an offering that we hope to continue to do in the future.
I'm very pleased with these achievements so far in 2015.
I have the confidence in our ability to continue delivering attractive returns future growth when economics warrant optionality through our exploration and ongoing portfolio management.
Similar to the first half of the year we'll continue to focus the next six months on improving our cash margins and creating value in our portfolio.
I'm going to stop here but before opening it up for questions I want to take a moment and introduce Darrell Hollek today.
Darrell has the unenviable task of succeeding Chuck Meloy who we believe is a legend in our business in the role of leading our onshore E&amp;P efforts.
As you can see from the Q2 results the handoff has gone well and we're delighted to have Darrell join us today.
So with that let's go to questions.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question today comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys and great results today.
My first question really phenomenal improvements and relative improvements in efficiencies in the quarter and year-over-year as highlighted in the Wattenberg.
Really two questions here I mean where do you see the limits on efficiencies and cost savings from here? And secondly what drives or influences your decision to recycle efficiency gains into CapEx versus potentially reducing CapEx given the current and forward commodity curves? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well appreciate the questions and thank you for the nice comments.
I think probably best that Darrell and I tackle this together.
Let me just say as it relates to the latter point I think we believe that we're investing our cash with very attractive rates of return.
I think you've heard us talk many many times about the fact that the Wattenberg area being enhanced by the mineral interest that we have there coupled with the efficiencies associated with what we have done to-date and have done so well historically.
We are continuing to put capital there and we'll continue even into 2016 in what is now continuing to be a lower price environment one that I'm sure you recall we were pretty cautious about last time we were together on our first quarter earnings call.
But I think as it relates to the Wattenberg in particular the only constraint we have there is just trying to stay as close as we can overall to investing capital that's close to our discretionary cash flow for the year.
The rates of return are very attractive and that's the reason you see us continuing to do the things that we do in that asset.
I'll let Darrell if you don't mind address the first half of the question.
Great.
Yeah.
In terms of your question on efficiency it's hard to imagine how much further we can go.
The team really surprises us every quarter and we've continued to go down.
If you listen to Al's comments about our drilling performance where we've now been able to get our well cost at least the drilling portion down to less than $1 million a copy.
And so there's a lot of really good work in terms of how we designed our wells and how we reduced our non-productive time while drilling and then obviously we had some vendor reductions.
But when you get down to $1 million a copy we're now drilling these wells in five days or less and we've just started that we've got about 50 wells like that.
So we'll continue to move our other rig lines toward that.
What that really does for us it allows us to drill considerably more wells in this case around 70 wells as compared to what we were doing a year ago at 35 wells.
And so is there room? I hope so in this commodity market.
We're going to continue to push forward.
But the team again has done a great job and aside from that you look at the completions they've done a really nice job there as well of getting our cost down.
So for about $3.5 million now we're drill completing and equipping these wells.
But I do want to send out kudos to our midstream group as well we've put on 90 million cubic feet per day of compression in the first quarter.
We did that again in the second quarter.
So bringing down those line pressures are really helping our volumes as well so it's sort of a team effort out in that area.
That's great.
That's helpful.
And a second question if I could on Mozambique.
I mean is the decision  and I appreciate the update.
I mean is the decision to FID the project by year-end conditioned on either owning any reduced interest or upon the commodity outlook at the time? And I know your economics are underpinned by long-term contracts post 2020 on a turnkey EPC contract but you're obviously  your future cash flows are affected by any protracted downside.
So any kind of color there as we move into the back-half of the year would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And I can understand some of the questions.
I will say I think we've reiterated before our interest in selling down from here approaches zero from the standpoint that we believe if we're going to be in this project we want to be operator.
And so selling down additional interest below where we are today would put into question whether or not we'd be the operator.
So just the pure arithmetic of it doesn't have any interest from that perspective.
As it relates to gating issue to get into FID.
I think the biggest gating issue I can highlight for you would be just getting the plan of development approved by the government.
In some ways we have some control over that as through the submittal process and the things that lead up to it.
But in terms of actually having the government approve the POD that would be the biggest gating issue leading to FID.
Great.
And what drove the kind of free upsizing under that turnkey contract by the EPC firms? Was that a concern about a rebid or can you discuss that at all? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
So the question is  and this is Jim  what drove the upsizing on the size of the liquefaction trains.
Well we ran a competitive FEED for the liquefaction facilities and during that competitive FEED the consortiums that were in the process had made advancements to engineering and technologies where they could upscale the capacity of the plants.
And so those plants which were originally targeted for 5 million tons per annum per train were upsized essentially to 6 million tons per annum.
They had installed and designed plants like that in the past.
Papua New Guinea is a good example of the most recent LNG facility.
And so those efficiencies were factored in and we received upsized plants or trains in this case for similar 5 million ton per annum costs.
Got it.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for the questions.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Al.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Absolutely.
Thanks Doug.
No worries.
Good to know.
Just a couple of quick questions please.
So first of all on disposals the Bossier sale that you obviously had a fairly good price in the  just towards of back end of the quarter I guess is not completed yet.
But when I look through the Ops Report I see a number of other areas that don't have current rig activity.
I guess Wamsutter would come to mind Marcellus would come to mind and obviously there's a couple of others Hugoton and so on.
So I'm just kind of wondering what your non-core asset disposal program is for things like Ozona Wamsutter and Marcellus and so on and what processes you have underway currently.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Hey Doug it's Bob Gwin.
Good question that we'll decline to address relative to the specific assets that we're looking at but from a philosophical standpoint you're looking at the portfolio the way that we do.
We're looking at non-core assets and the fact that we think at least currently this remains a seller market.
There are a lot of assets that are not going to attract capital in our portfolio but still have really nice return characteristics and economics and quite a bit of tail left on them and those assets are attractive to some others.
And so we continue to look at the broader portfolio try to determine which ones we'd like to hang onto as a part of our future inventory and which ones we think might be better owned by someone else.
We've got a couple of processes underway currently and we're going to continue to refine and upgrade the portfolio.
Our view is if we can take the proceeds from those types of asset sales and redeploy it in not only our onshore shorter-cycle opportunities but some of these mid and longer-cycle opportunities that that's a significant value creator from a macro standpoint.
Bob maybe while I have you then the process I think with Bossier as I understand it it was something close to 100 folks interested in the data room and the way it was characterized to me at least to was above strip pricing through 3P resource valuation; obviously you got a great price for it.
But how would you characterize the current M&amp;A environment for assets? Is it still that healthy? Well we certainly think and hope so but obviously with commodity prices backing up fairly sharply on a percentage basis more recently than the time that we were marketing that Bossier asset we'll see.
Each asset's unique specifics relative to the asset and its specific location within these various basins and the amount of capital chasing the opportunities relevant to the asset we're selling is really the determining factor in terms of how strong your bid process is.
We don't expect we'd sell everything we would target we'll look to see if we think the sales price is attractive and we've got one we're pretty close on now it's relatively small and from a macro standpoint this is good for us.
Because it helps us to clean up the portfolio reallocate not only our capital but our people and our attention on the things that are going to add the most value.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Doug this is Al let me just add on the buy side of that same commentary we've been reasonably unsuccessful if I can use that as a term in trying to buy things in the Delaware Basin where I think we have a cost advantage we clearly through Western Gas have a processing advantage and yet we see time and again people coming in there and buying things at prices that surprise us.
I will also say that we've been  we fought fairly aggressively on a couple of things and were bid or rather were outbid by 2X.
So to Bob's comment it seems to be a seller's market and even in an area where I'd say we have significant advantages in terms of both geological and economic we're still not a successful buyer in a asset that we would like to add to but only at the right price.
I appreciate the answer.
My follow-up is hopefully a little quicker.
Again in the Ops Report a lot of discussion about some of the really interesting exploration success you've had but two that strike me as kind of significant by the fact that they're not included is Coronado.
Given your lease win recently on Phobos I'm just wondering if you could share your latest thoughts on those two and I'll leave it there please.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah Doug it's Bob.
Coronado is part of the Shenandoah mini-basin.
We've got a discovery there that we've appraised.
So we think we've got a pretty good handle on what it is.
We recently picked up the blocks again.
We had some expiries that we had to put back in and then picked them back up and that's going to stay that way until we have Shenandoah development plans put in place because we see it as a tie-back through that facility.
The other one that you mentioned was Phobos? Phobos yeah.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah.
Phobos we're looking at potential appraisal well in early 2016 we're trying to get all the partners aligned get their views on what the  how they see it.
And then get that into the drilling schedule that's being worked as we speak.
Bob did your working interest in Coronado move up? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yes it did.
Can you quantify it? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> I don't remember the exact number but it did move up.
Okay.
I'll leave it there guys.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
With the additional wells that you're drilling as a result of efficiency gains this year and an increase in the backlog of drilled but uncompleted wells it seems like you should have a lot of flexibility to turn the machine back on when you see fit.
Can you just talk to what you're looking for in the commodity markets your balance sheet and your CapEx cash flow profile assuming the current cost structure holds to more aggressively begin completing that backlog? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead.
Yeah.
This is Darrell Brian.
Again because we have drilled the wells we are going to have a significant uplift in what we would call the DUCs the drilled but uncompleted.
We went in last quarter saying we'd probably carry over 125 into next year and as we see it now we're probably going to do  carry over around 200 but I would say based on your comments we do tend to be very flexible here.
We'll probably stand up at least one completion rig to complete some of the extra wells being drilled.
Going into the year as we pulled down capital we went from four completion crews down to one in Wattenberg as we speak today.
But we'll be standing one up in August.
And beyond that we'll be flexible to just see what our needs are.
And as it relates to more the balance sheet and how we might fund such things Brian with the asset sales that we're pursuing and the fact that even just on a clean basis we basically spent within cash flow in the most recent quarter.
We've got the flexibility to use our cash position if we choose to.
But that's going to be driven by the economics available of completing and producing those wells and what environment we're selling that flush production into.
So do you think about a goal then of being CapEx cash flow neutral post asset sale pre-asset sale or somewhere in between? Yeah no.
I would think certainly neutral or better when you include asset sales.
And if you look at our original guidance for the year we were essentially looking at funding our CapEx program this year with our cash flow as  plus the sale proceeds from the EOR transaction of $700 million earlier this year.
Obviously we've done well at continuing to monetize things beyond that that gives us even more flexibility.
And of course we're pretty focused on keeping that balance sheet healthy and very cognizant of what our leverage position is because no one knows what the depth or the length of the commodity price downturn is going to look like.
So we're trying to just maintain flexibility but obviously we have the ability to turn up the spigot both from a cash standpoint and from an opportunity standpoint if and when the economics warrant it.
Thanks.
That's great.
And then my follow-up actually goes back to the  to Doug's question earlier on the M&amp;A environment which you characterized as a seller's market.
I think the focus though on what you were talking about there was on buying or selling assets.
With equity valuations having come down can you just talk about whether  how you look at the corporate environment whether you see corporate valuations attractive whether there is more of an opportunity to buy companies versus to buy assets here and maybe on the other side where  what your view is on where the majors stand on taking a greater interest in U.S.
shale? We look as lots of corporate opportunities.
Obviously we like most companies have screening tools and look at relative value differentials between how our equity trades and potential target equities trade.
Asset values are high corporate values are low that would lead one to believe that the opportunities the better opportunities may exist from a corporate standpoint.
However few corporate opportunities are actually perfect fits from a portfolio perspective so you introduce execution risk and whether or not you're making your company as efficient on a pro forma basis as it is going into a transaction.
So we consider all those things and look at it and we  we'll see the  it's going to be an interesting second half of the year here driven by the commodity-price environment and if the market stays relatively weak then obviously the opportunity to do something might go up.
But we're just trying to remain flexible enough to take advantage of opportunity if it exists.
You're latter question on the majors I don't know I mean it's hard to know what they're thinking of and what they're looking at.
So we're just trying to focus on the way we can build the best company and hopefully be as attractive to all our shareholders as possible.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Brian this is Al.
Let me just add one thing or two to Bob's comments which I think he represents the views of us quite well on the topic you asked him about.
As it relates to an M&amp;A transaction and I'll go back to a comment I've made on prior calls.
And that is our objective is to get better not bigger and if getting bigger allows us to get better then that's okay we like the position we've got we like the assets we're in we like the exploration opportunities that we have in-house.
If we see a company that has assets that are complementary then I think that would cause us to take a harder look at them but just buying somebody that's distressed with assets that don't fit the piece of the puzzle the way we see the puzzle looking probably should be considered way outside the white stakes.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
And congrats on a nice quarter.
Colombia can you just give us  Colombia with an O not a U.
Can you just give us your thoughts on Colombia and what you've seen thus for and just a quick pic there? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah David this is Bob.
So we're on the first well Kronos we know.
So we found between 130 feet and 230 feet of pay in the upper objective of that well.
The reason for the range is it's some laminated sands low contrast and so we're waiting on some rock data.
We think that  we're very confident of the 130 feet and we think the 230 feet is very realistic also but we don't want to get over our skis until we know really what we've got there.
It is all gas charged but we  flex  at (23:28) any time that you go into a frontier basin and your first well in the first objective finds what you're kind of looking for we're very very encouraged with it.
And then when we look at what the gas is telling us it does look like it's originally thermogenic but it was thermogenic liquids that have been biodegraded.
Given the textures that we're seeing here and the depth that this was at all of the geochemistry seems to be indicating that which is an indirect evidence that we do have an oil generating system that matches in with our petroleum systems work and the temperatures that we're seeing.
We're not seeing a hot basin here like we were seeing in Mozambique.
We're seeing increasing heavier components as we go deeper in the well bore.
We have not seen any direct evidence of oil at this point but all the indirect evidence is pointing to very consistent with our original pre-drill estimates that this should be an oil prone system and in the shallower objectives very similar to what we see in Eastern Gulf of Mexico.
We're seeing biodegraded thermal liquids and that turns into methane.
So everything we've seen to-date is extremely encouraging.
We've got to get down to the second objective here.
We just have geomechanical issues.
We've got to work our way through to get this well down.
But we're making progress and then move up to Calasu which is 100 miles away on the same blocks.
And see what we have there in a very different play style but as we've always said we've got multiple play styles multiple objectives out here.
This is a huge acreage position with about 6 million acres down in the Fuerte area about 10 up in the Col area.
And so we've got a lot of running room here and we're very very encouraged with what we've seen.
Thanks.
Good detail.
And then what's the  remind me what's the drilling obligation out here? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> This is our obligation on the Fuerte Sur Block and then the Calasu will be the obligation well in the Fuerte Norte Block and that's it.
That's our only obligation.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are planning on next year coming back and probably appraising Kronos.
And then we're putting together rest of the drilling schedule in Colombia.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I'm going to circle back to CapEx.
I just want to make  I'm just trying to get your guys' thoughts.
Obviously you're a leader in the industry as goes the sentiment right now goes to group.
But I'm just trying to figure out if you think about 2016 if you think about the rest of this year obviously like you mentioned Bob you're plus or minus cash flow right now at least in this quarter.
If you end up  efficiencies continue you obviously don't want to get your DUC number to 400.
Like how do you think about that balance you spend that additional CapEx if there is such a thing this year doing more exploration.
And I'm just trying to think about how you guys picture the environment right now and then what do you see as a likely outcome for  as you roll into 2016? I know obviously it's all price dependent but I'm just trying to get more clarity? Well for 2015 as Al mentioned earlier we have no expectations of increasing the capital budget this year and obviously we had the opportunities to decrease it but we're just getting a lot more done for the same dollars this year.
When we look to 2016 a lot of it's going to be based upon 2016 cash flow.
Certainly we expect to see some proceeds from asset sales.
We feel pretty good about the ability to continue to move either through the tangible equity units or direct secondary sales continue to move additional of our WGP holdings in the market.
So it's going to be  the opportunity is going to be available to us to spend more money in 2016 and to outspend cash flow.
But as we get some little bit better clarity on where we think what that cash flow number is going to look like in 2016.
We're going to be working with the board to decide whether it's within cash flow or something in excess of it.
Either way we expect that we'll be able within cash flow plus asset sale proceeds.
And so therefore we avoid putting any pressure on the balance sheet or adding any incremental financial risk to the company's profile.
Okay.
Just one  I had one qualifier and I'll jump off.
So if I think about it today obviously Niobrara with the royalty exit that works and you made the comment earlier economic sense.
Today at the strip with current service cost with current efficiencies as of today does it make sense to  like how do you think about economic sense in a snapshot today as far as...? Well we could on the margin obviously we could on the margin push on the production accelerator somewhat in the Wattenberg.
The economics are intrinsically attractive and then when you include the royalty component the math's pretty attractive there.
I would imagine it's one of the better assets in North America from a return standpoint today.
However those are also your Tier 1 assets and some of the best assets in the portfolio that the margins on those assets were substantially higher in the past.
We've talked in the past about 100% type rates of return just last year.
And so while we're comfortable continuing to work down that drilled and uncompleted inventory somewhat working it down aggressively in an environment where we are earning fewer absolute dollar margins per barrel solely to achieve a growth objective that we don't believe is terribly valued in the current environment doesn't seem to make the most sense.
And it's an option for us and it's an option we might choose to pursue if we thought the current environment was going to be protracted and we were somehow in a new normal in this  in a $50-esque oil environment.
We don't believe that's true over the intermediate to longer term.
So we believe there is more value in moderating the production growth in the current environment and accelerating it in the future when the value is there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David.
Can I just add one thing to Bob and that is I think we think of this business as a margin business not as a top line business.
So therefore the price doesn't trigger meaning the hydrocarbon price doesn't trigger our interest in capital allocation.
It's really the margin and I don't need to explain to you or probably folks on the call but the velocity change in the hydrocarbon price has greatly exceeded the velocity change that we've realized to-date on service cost.
So we still even with the tremendous amount of hardship that service providers have gone through in the first half of the year.
We as an upstream company still don't have the margin we had a year ago and don't have a margin that gives us the kind of return that I think would prompt us to believe that we need to go back into a growth mode and I think just to belabor the point a little further we still see the uncertainty that we made reference to in the first quarter with respect to sustainable prices giving us an encouragement to go back into the growth mode and don't think the rest of this year is likely to create that and we're going to watch what happens this year as hopefully an indication of what we might think for 2016.
Okay.
All right that took more than my time.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
It seems like the Delaware Basin is getting a little bit more attention from you all this quarter.
If I step back and look at last quarter it seems like reduced some of the focus on it in part because of infrastructure constraints can you all give us an update on if there could be incremental capital going there even at these prices say into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the reason you're hearing a little more volume is that we are turning up the dial a little bit on that simply because we got more drilling results.
We also if you recall late last year made a very attractive acquisition via Western Gas for additional infrastructure.
That infrastructure is  we have done in the Western playbook for the Wattenberg is very key to the way we think about a very major development opportunity in a basin that today is still in the early stages.
I also made reference to the fact that while we think we have a unique position to be able to be a consolidator there to date we've not seen opportunities to pick up properties that we otherwise would like to see just simply because there is more capital chasing this than we think is reasonable.
That said I think given the again very large position we had going into this before anyone knew anything about it has now become a very well-known play and certainly the attention that it has received from lots of private equity backed firms as well as publicly traded firms is why you're hearing more volume from us and more volume from others and I think Darrell can give you a little bit of color as to why we're seeing some of that for what it makes for Anadarko to put capital towards it.
Because again our capital has to compete on an internal rate of return basis with other places to invest and today behind the Wattenberg the Permian Basin in particular the Delaware portion of the Permian Basin has that pole position in the number two spot.
So Darrell? Yeah.
I think Al sums it up well but this is an area you're going to hear a lot about from us and from industry.
It's just huge and if you look at our position we've had seven rigs running out here now and we talked about some of the efficiencies we've picked up in the Wattenberg.
But our drilling efficiencies have actually picked up in all of our locations including Eagle Ford and Delaware and so we do have some what we think room in terms of where we're spending our capital.
So we're actually moving a rig as we speak into Delaware an eighth rig and we may yet move a ninth one over there.
And we're not to the point that we're doing pad drilling yet we're still learning a lot about the acreage we have because we got a really large position here.
But I can tell you we're pretty excited about what we're seeing.
We've got one completion crew there now and there is a good chance we'll stand up a second completion crew there as well as we drill additional wells.
But that's again that's going to part of that flexibility as we play out the rest of the year but that's a really exciting area for us and everything we're finding is encouraging and I would say even from last year our well costs have gone down about $1 million on the drilling and completion side.
So we've got a lot of really good things happening in that area and I think you can expect to continue to hear a lot about Delaware from us.
Yeah.
More specifically with  obviously you addressed the cost side of things but on well performance side what have you seen incrementally? Do you have some color around that? And I know you all were looking at the Wolfcamp A as well as the Bone Spring formation.
Is there an update on how some of those pilots have gone? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our focus right now is the Wolfcamp A that's where you're seeing all of our drilling right now.
I can tell you though we have drilled a Bone Springs 2 well you're hearing about that from industry well we've got what we feel is about 100 000 acres of Bone Springs 2 sitting on our acreage as well.
We've drilled that well but it won't get completed until August.
So those results will be forthcoming in the second half of the year.
But what we're seeing in the Wolfcamp A again continued to be pretty consistent across our acreage.
And so that's really encouraging for us.
Yeah and I guess I misspoke I meant the Lower Wolfcamp pay.
I think you were looking at the Upper and the Lower Wolfcamp pay.
Have you kind of defined the opportunity between those two formations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not yet.
But one of the reasons we are looking to bring additional rigs in there is to make sure we're testing all the horizons.
So you should see some results coming in the future on that.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning everyone.
Al I know you and your team there have already fielded a lot of questions on your CapEx posture going forward.
And I think this may be a case of no good deed going unpunished since last quarter you guys had the prescient call of not wanting to accelerate and noting that you thought there was a possibility of oil prices can head back down.
But you mentioned that I think if I heard you correctly that you said you did not foresee in the back half of 2015 the conditions coming around where that would lead you to want to accelerate.
But can you share with us again since you have the hot hand right now it seems on looking at the oil market what's your outlook for 2016? How long do you think it's going to be before you can put more money back to work either on your operations or the A&amp;D front on the asset side specifically? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I appreciate the comments.
Those are not necessarily mine; I'd say they're the thoughts collectively of our management team I just happened to make them that particular day.
As it relates to how we think about allocation of capital the second half of the year I'll come back to a comment I made a few minutes ago.
And it's really more about the margin and not about the hydrocarbon price.
We still see some improvement from the service sector in terms of our abilities to improve margins.
I think there is a lot of things we've done that are permanent as it relates to the efficiencies that we've put in place.
So it's not just price reductions from various service vendors that in a different hydrocarbon price environment would come back to us as a higher price these are actually sustainable improvements that will weather the storm of higher prices when we have those.
So it's really looking at the margins that we anticipate from our major asset plays through the balance of the year looking exactly what we think we can achieve with those.
And it just seems unlikely to the six of us today that we're going to have the kind of margins that we have seen historically that would encourage us to go back into a growth mode.
I think there are going to be asset plays we've talked about two of them in particular today in the Delaware Basin and the DJ Basin that we believe even in the environment we're in provides us a rate of return from what we see from  what we get from the upstream and midstream capabilities of the organization.
That's probably a place where we can say with some confidence we'll put capital.
But I'm not sure we as a company and I don't believe we as an industry are anywhere close to the types of margin improvement that's needed before we go back into a growth mode and growth would then in turn be rewarded by investors.
Got it.
So Al would  is a reasonable timeframe for when you'd start to look at 2016 sometime this fall is when you'd start the  that comes into focus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly.
I think you should anticipate that not just Anadarko but we all don't look at things quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year.
I mean we do multi-year planning and we do sensitivities around those and yet with the shale plays in particular I think all of you are quite attuned to the fact that they deplete 50% to 80% in the first year so there we have to be very confident of the margin environment that we're moving into because we're not going to be able to capture that on the back side of the well since so much of the production will have occurred.
So that's why I'm a little hesitant and cautious about exactly when we'll see this company in particular and industry more broadly be encouraged to go back into a growth mode.
Thank you Al.
That's helpful.
And then moving on to kind of asset specific questions.
I know the oil beat you had in Q2 you mentioned the Wattenberg but it seems like the Gulf of Mexico also played a significant part of that and I'm curious how much of that  how much of this  the outperformance on the oil side in the Gulf of Mexico was one-time sort of thing related to the timing or the ramp up of Lucius and how much of that is going to  how much of that is a contributor to your durable guide up for the back half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're very fortunate in that we believe that there is a cocktail out there that's a mix of unconventional and conventional that makes sense for the way in which we think about the business plans that we develop.
And I think you're right you hit on the fact that Lucius is now at nameplate capacity that's important but I'm going to  if you don't mind I'll let Jim will walk you through and talk a little bit  I mean we've got a lot out there and a lot of this goes back to exploration successes that have come out of the Bob Daniels world and the deepwater exploration in the past and we continue as you know from this quarter to have things that we do out there in the deepwater exploration success framework.
So we think that we'll continue to do things.
So Jim if you don't mind just talk a little bit about where we are on the trajectory? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Right the performance in the Gulf of Mexico has been meeting expectations on all fronts.
Recently we just brought the Lucius facility on and that hit our expectations right on the mark.
The facilities went in as scheduled.
Production ramped up to our nameplate capacity.
We brought in third-party gas across the facility over 300 million cubic feet a day from South Hadrian.
So process handling agreements and cash flow looks very strong.
Following that we have Heidelberg coming on.
So we're expecting the Heidelberg field to first oil in mid part of 2016.
The Heidelberg spar has been set and all the mooring lines are installed so it's storm ready.
The topside has been fully commissioned in the Ingleside yard here.
And it will be scheduled for lift out beginning October when the heavy lift barge the Heerema shows up.
So that's all progressing very well.
And so we have our projects lined up.
We also are looking in-field opportunities throughout the Gulf of Mexico that increase production on some of our legacy fields.
So we see strong performance through the Gulf and anchored really by economical projects that we've taken commercial opportunities on to reduce interest for carried capital rates as we've done in the past with Lucius and Heidelberg.
Thank you Jim.
Our next question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly I guess last quarter you guys updated us in terms of maintenance CapEx necessary to keep production flat.
Early in the year you had it about $3 billion then you kind of took that range to $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion.
Based on the continued efficiency gains and cost improvements where do you see that today and maybe where do you see that for 2016 just as we try to frame-up an outlook? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think given the really impressive efforts that have come out of our supply chain management and what we believe is still fruit that can be picked from the tree that in that range that we gave you previously you should anticipate we'll be towards the lower end of that range around $2.7 billion.
Okay appreciate that.
And then switching over to Wattenberg just for a second.
You indicated that production is expected to plateau for the balance of the year.
Does that factor in the added compression that should relieve some of the pressure on wells to allow them to flow more freely or is that just potential upside that could come along with it? Yeah.
I think  this is Darrell.
I think the benefit of the additional compression was really seen in the first quarter and second quarter.
How we play out the rest of the year obviously I mentioned we've gone from four completion rigs down to one.
We'll be standing up another one here in the third quarter.
But how the rest of the year plays out really depends on how we handle these DUCs and these additional wells that are currently being drilled.
So right now it's forecasted to decline a little bit but we can turn that around fairly really quickly if that's what we decide to do.
And we'll probably be looking to do some of that as we go into 2016.
Okay appreciate that.
And then maybe just one last one.
Thorvald it's my understanding that didn't hit TD on that.
Can you talk a little bit about the decision on maybe going back and pushing the drill bit again based on what you've seen to-date there? Yeah Dave.
We didn't get to our ultimate objective there.
Again geomechanics and the wellbore design we had to stop.
So we're taking all the data that we've acquired thus far reintegrating it into our seismic interpretation and looking at what the potential of what we didn't see could be what the potential of what we found could be and where we may want to drill a second well and whether that's the right thing to do.
We are the operator of the prospect now that was part of the deal that we had originally is we got 50% working interest and operatorship.
So it's our call if we move forward and you'll probably hear more about that later.
Okay.
Appreciate that color.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
You've talked about cash flow neutrality can you just run us through your cash flow and CapEx for this quarter because I'm just seeing it slightly lower relative to CapEx.
So could you just talk me through you mentioned earlier a clean number I think is what you said in terms of how we should look at the quarter and cash flow? Could you just walk through some of the elements of that and whether or not this is a representative quarter given that it was about a $60 oil price and that's basically what we see on the strip thanks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Paul.
I think you're hitting on a very important point.
I think we were  we did a really good job in the second quarter keeping our CapEx within a close ZIP Code of cash  discretionary cash flow.
We don't believe that prices are likely to improve from here.
So therefore it will be more challenging in the couple quarters ahead of us to continue to have that more neutral cash flow to CapEx.
I think the amount of erosion that we would see or deficit free cash flow is not significant.
And some of this will have to do just going back to a comment Darrell made a few minutes ago about just how much drilled and uncompleted we want to take into next year as inventory versus how much of that would be available to us if we saw a different price environment as I keep reiterating this morning a better margin environment in order to produce into.
So I think while we had great success in the first half of the year quite proud of the way in which the organization responded to the market environment and the way in which the second quarter produced out.
Given where we are at this point in the year where we see the second half of the year being we would be very challenged to continue to be cash flow neutral like we were in the second quarter relative to CapEx and expect CapEx would probably slightly outpace cash flows through the balance of the year.
Okay.
So what you're kind of saying is basically that it is fairly representative number the $1.2 billion of cash flow at $60 I guess obviously we would add in any growth you achieve and then margin improvement I suppose is the other aspect of how to think about it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I really would tell you.
I'm so pleased with and could not be happier with the way in which we've improved our margins.
We've also increased our mix and as I made comments to earlier on this call in my prepared remarks we see our oil production going up through the balance of the year.
And so that favorable mix improvement coupled with further improvements in the margins on the cost side and efficiency side I think will inure to our benefit to be able to keep that gap between discretionary cash flow and CapEx as minimal in terms of the delta as possible.
Yeah.
Fully understood.
And the maintenance CapEx number that you just spoke about.
Could you just rationalize the fact that you're saying you're really not in growth mode against what looks like a much lower potential CapEx number if that maintenance CapEx number that you just gave is a stay flat number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And as I think you can appreciate.
We like some but unlike a lot commit to a lot of medium cycle as well as long-cycle spending in our total CapEx.
And so we will continue to fund exploration in an environment where we believe the option value there is worth a lot to us.
Same thing with some mid-cycle things that we'll do in the Gulf of Mexico that have not gone into detail on this call.
But just simply they are the types of things that will increase our oil production in the intermediate cycle that are quite attractive to us.
They're the right thing to spend capital on because of the rate of returns that will be achieved.
So when we think about being in that $2.7 billion range with maintaining the volumes you should anticipate that we don't believe natural gas production will increase over the second-half of the year but rather it will continue to decrease and that we hope to offset that with attractive oil margins and oil production.
That's great.
Thank you.
Helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Two quick ones Bob for Kronos were you basically saying you found C3s and C5s with the gas? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No.
In the upper objective we found C1s.
But the chromatograph and the geochemical analysis says good indirect evidence that it is derived from thermogenic  liquid thermogenic fluids.
And that  then that's been biodegraded and it's in that temperature window that would allow for biodegradation very very similar to what we saw in all of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico in the shallow Miocene gas discoveries.
Good.
Thanks.
One question on the Wattenberg not trying to beat a dead horse in terms of the incremental DUCs.
Is the issue really value or GTP infrastructure or a combination of both because obviously if you have lower line pressures you get more volume output.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Honestly and I don't think you're going to be surprised by my answer.
It's all driven by value.
I think what we did with Western Gas and the infrastructure that we have put in place the additional infrastructure that we make reference in the Ops Report coming on line from a takeaway capability and capacity.
I couldn't be more pleased with the way in which our midstream operations have handled that.
I think that will be a pretty good precursor John for how we anticipate the Delaware to play out as well.
And I think the capital that we will continue to invest behind system as the equity should bode well as we think about Western Gas and Anadarko and the years ahead.
I think in addition just simply we don't anticipate whether it's in the DJ or in the Delaware to get into a situation where we're going to be capacity constrained around facilities that we operate.
The amount of oil that ultimately gets produced out of the Delaware.
I'll just say the midstream industry in general is going to have to find some relief for the oil that needs to move into the Gulf Coast and I think there's plenty of pipelines that have been proposed so far so that one doesn't worry me but as it relates to the midstream capabilities that we have I think we've been ahead of the curve both in the DJ and are ahead of the curve again in the Delaware.
Thanks Al.
I've got one other comment on there John.
When you look at the first half of the year by far it was that $180 million of compressions impacting it but we'll see the benefit for the rest of the year.
The one thing we didn't mention is we stood up Lancaster II as well that gives us another 300 million of processing capacity and so the real point there is that's our second Lancaster plant that's up.
We got 600 million of capacity now in processing and so the infrastructure is staying ahead of us out there so although we're drilling at a little bit faster pace than we anticipated because of the synergies we don't feel that we're going to be restricted there.
And so when we decide to put that money to work against the completions we'll have the ability to raise those volumes pretty quickly.
Great.
Thanks.
That's what I wanted to hear.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Lear of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
It's Ed Westlake.
I hope you can hear me.
Can you hear me? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning Ed.
Great.
Okay.
Good morning.
So just glad to see you putting some rigs to work in the Delaware.
I mean obviously a lot of people think that's a huge prolific and large play and you were very clear about what you're doing at the moment.
But what are the key gating factors for you to really accelerate in the Delaware aside from the commodity price? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's just simply a matter of Darrell's got a lot of area there that he's still trying to figure out the areal extent of the play and so there is a little bit of understanding what we have in the way of total volumes and the recoverability of those volumes we've done a little beta testing with how we would anticipate a development plan to work but I think as you can probably appreciate this is not a blanket shale it's not a blanket reservoir.
And so areas of it will actually perform a little bit differently than others and so we're in the data collection mode and not all of it in the near-term will go into that manufacturing or development mode.
Darrell please add to that.
Yeah.
Unlike Wattenberg you got to remember you don't have near the infrastructure out in Delaware as you do  that we enjoy there in Wattenberg.
Although picking up that midstream component last year was significant but there's still a lot of pipe to get out.
We put the beta plan on this year that's going to help but we still have a lot of infrastructure to put in place.
And so we expect our volumes to continue to go up.
Like I said we're moving the rig in there.
We're likely to move yet a second additional rig this year.
But we still have a lot to learn on the different zones if you will and over the 230 000 net acres that we have but I wouldn't expect us to get into a pad drilling mode anytime yet this year because there's just so much infrastructure yet and so much to learn before we really go down that path.
So I would look closer to 2016 sometime before we start getting into that mode.
I like the beta testing.
That's a technology term and obviously there's a lot of technology in this industry.
But  and this may be a longshot would you be able to at this point as you think about your beta test development plan talk about where you think the D&amp;C costs could get down to and your sort of EURs and potential to (54:33) oil or is it too early I mean we see a lot of results across the industry so we can make up our own minds but I'd just be intrigued as to where your head was at for some of those key metrics.
I would say it's early for sure we looked at this last year we dropped cost about $1 million per well on the drilling and completion side.
So there's no doubt in my mind that we've got a learning curve yet we're going down and we'll get those costs down further than that.
If you look at what we continue to do at Wattenberg we've been there a long time and we continue to get those costs down.
So I think it's going to be an evolution.
As we learn what works best out here.
So I think you could anticipate not only ourselves but industry will get better at drilling and completing wells out there.
So I'm pretty encouraged what the cost structure could look like out there.
And to be provocative and switch topics on the learning curve some folks say the offshore is dead.
I mean I have my own view you have yours you've laid them out pretty clearly.
But how low do you think you could lower the breakevens on some of these larger discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico and hopefully Cote d'Ivoire and Colombia to make these competitive with what's going on in say strip pricing today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me try if I can to answer part of this along with Jim.
I mean part of this has to do with whether or not we are able to tie back to existing infrastructure.
If we are able to do that that helps a lot.
Or if we're able to do what we did with Lucius and Heidelberg and that's design one and build two and reduce costs there substantially that helps again.
I think you've seen us time and again tie back to existing infrastructure and that's sort of a opportunity that few people have.
Not saying that we're completely unique in that regard but there's not that many of us that have infrastructure to tie back into.
Now if you're talking about drilling something that has no infrastructure obviously it's got to have a bigger EUR therefore the breakeven is a little bit different and that's very different in the Gulf of Mexico than it would be in West Africa because basically you're drilling deeper wells in a different environment and we see that in some other places.
So maybe with that that's a good handoff for me to let Jim give you a little more color around that.
International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I think Al covered it pretty well with the  what I would add to that would be we aren't seeing the price response as dramatic in the deepwater large or mega project space as what we're obviously seeing in our onshore business.
We are however seeing some price retractions obviously the deepwater rig fleets pricing has dropped.
So that's allowing us to carve back some savings.
But what we're really looking at is what is the subsea infrastructure manufacturing and then the large offshore facility costs and those are seeing some reductions.
And so we're incorporating those into our field development plans.
What we're very fortunate with is that Bob Daniel's exploration group has done a great job in identifying high-quality developments.
And so with a combination of those resources and with some of the price recoveries we're seeing and I think coupled with our project management oversight and approaching some of these developments in a minimalistic approach keeping the costs down and keeping them simple we're able to see some pretty good economics going forward.
Okay that's very clear.
Probably a topic for a whole call.
But thanks very much.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
(56:09).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Now David don't even go there just go ahead.
Just thinking about additional sources of cash inflows I was curious about your thoughts on the size of the TEU market per year after the success you had in the second quarter? Look David it remains to be seen.
Obviously we had some really good success with the initial issuance; we ended up doing a transaction that was a lot of interest and an upside that we were very pleased with.
As that security matures and gets a little more reputation amongst that buyer community we expect that they will like what they see and that we're going to be able to access it again.
The other dynamic around the West  WGP rather monetization is that the more liquidity that's out there in these securities be the TEUs or WGP itself then the relative larger size transaction is going to be  you're going to be able to accomplish relative to the float that's out there.
So we try not to predict too aggressively but it's fair to say that we have some really high expectations for being able to access that market in the future because the transaction really hits the mark on those  on what those investors desire.
From our standpoint it's just  it's  we'll still do secondary offerings of WGP from time to time.
We'll access the TEU market and it just gives us a broader market to sell into since our position is so substantial and it's clearly our desire to continue to access the capital markets through those securities in the future.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David let me just add real quickly also.
That I made this comment and I just think it's worth reiterating.
We see Western Gas and our monetization efforts there as the source of capital that will fund what we do with the equity portion of the development in Mozambique.
So we're not in a need to quickly liquidate Western Gas in order to achieve that but that is our source of capital and that will then in turn be the use of the capital.
We think that's extremely important to highlight simply because we're not looking at cash flow from operations to fund investments in Mozambique; rather that will fund totally the types of E&amp;P activities that you normally would traditionally think of.
And therefore getting into the market with these TEUs coming up with a structure that had been previously used with C-Corps but not used with MLPs and frankly Bob and his staff and Mike Pearl in particular came up with something introduced it to a market that hadn't been seen before and we're really pleased with what was there.
I just think this continues to be important for us to highlight that we've had great success with Western Gas we continue to expect Western Gas to play an important role in which we think of as Anadarko and its midstream integration with its upstream but as we think about the GP The Western Gas that will continue to be the source of funding in the near-term for how we will make the equity investments in the development of Mozambique.
Thanks guys.
And then just cash margin wise you all have deferred some workovers that had operating cost savings in second quarter and your guidance comes back up.
Can you talk regionally of how those costs came down and then have the ability to sustain that better margin just from the operating cost standpoint? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> David some of the workover numbers that were in are really time dependent in the Gulf of Mexico and when we decide to position a rig.
So I think our costs are going to be in line with what our projections are and depending on what happens with well flow in response for instance in I Hub we lost one of the key gas producing wells and we brought in a rig and shifted a sleeve and recompleted uphole.
So that was an unforeseen workover that we brought in.
The well was recovered and we anticipate good flow rates from that well and are in the process of testing it right now.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then kind of sustainability on the  I want to talk a little bit about NGL pricing and then kind of sustainability on the decision to process or reject and again just thinking about cash margins in context of your NGL pricing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as you can imagine we think about NGL prices a lot.
I'm going to have Scott Moore who runs marketing for us address that but NGL volatility this year may have exceeded volatility in any other hydrocarbon and it's certainly been something that we've had to be mindful of.
Hi.
This is Scott I would also add that we have rejected about 13 million barrels worth of NGL this year but the key point for us is really controlling the value chain and it lets us get a relatively stronger realization than we otherwise would fundamentals remain challenging and we exercise the option volume in the portfolio as best we can.
So no expectation of a price recovery or change in volatility I guess is what I should read in that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that's fair David.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we're going to  I'm going to mirror or parrot in a lot of comments.
I mean most people see propane obviously heading into heating season improving.
So that portion of the value chain certainly looks like it's got some fundamentals but if you were just looking at ethane I can't give you a good pretty picture on ethane.
Yeah.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Mike Scialla of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning.
Darrell you talked about drilling most of the new wells in Wattenberg in five days which would seem to suggest maybe that further efficiency gains there are kind of limited.
Given that could you talk about the decision to drill primarily short laterals there I think about 70% of this year's program are actually short laterals.
It seemed to me that maybe long laterals are the next step change in efficiency there? Yeah.
A lot of that really had to do with the land position but as we cored up with Noble I think what you can expect to see is the mid laterals.
Those are what we're finding to probably be the sweet spot not that we haven't drilled some longs we have but we've tended to find ourselves getting into some drilling issues.
And so from an economic perspective and trouble time we really think the sweet spot is going to be those mid-laterals.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then sticking with Wattenberg any idea of when you'll be able to talk more about spacing there? I think you're guiding to kind of 12 wells per section on average.
I think you've tested tighter than that.
Any more you can say on that at this point? Well for the most part we're 12 wells to 16 wells per section but again we got a lot of acreage and so not all acreage is equal and we do have a lot of tests going on up as high as 32 wells per section.
And so we're still playing around with that a little bit.
But again that's going to be sort of area specific across such a big acreage holding.
And  but we're still seeing encouraging results.
We think we can get a little bit tighter spacing but time will tell verdict is out on that just a little bit.
We're working between both Codell and Niobrara as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just last one for me.
Any thoughts on the  some folks are testing the upper Eagle Ford; I think you guys did a little bit of work there but any thoughts on that? Yeah we're testing that as well.
We're actually somewhat encouraged.
We've drilled almost two dozen wells of which we've just completed a few and put them online.
We've got others to put online and so we're looking at testing what we call both the upper and sort of a middle Eagle Ford if you will there is a transition zone in there.
And so it's too early to tell any results right now.
But I'd tell you we're pretty encouraged by it.
We have drilled one Buda well but we're probably not as infatuated with Buda as we are with both the upper and middle Eagle Ford that you'll continue to hear more information as we get these things tested.
But we are like I said we probably drilled 24 of those already.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's all from me.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bob Christensen of Imperial.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Did I hear Bob that you are going to return to Kronos and drill an offset well next year? Did I mistake that? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Bob this  yeah Bob.
That's our plan right now.
We're still trying to figure out our total drill schedule but the rig that's in Colombia now is going to drill  finish Kronos go over to Calasu then it's going across to West Africa to Cote d'Ivoire and do a DST there and then we're looking at okay what's the plan for next year and high on that list would be a Kronos appraisal well.
Wow that's very encouraging.
Has any high impact exploration left the schedule much like we saw with Conoco has anything been just severed from your schedule or thoughts of ideas here that was on the bubble? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No.
I think there has been a little bit of sliding.
Our Kenya Mlima well was originally on the schedule for 2015 and that's really all around rig timing nothing to do with the prospect itself.
But other than that no we've continued our program we have looked for partners on some things and have been successful in that.
Again we talk about what our Anadarko capital is versus what our total capital spend is and we bring in partners on a promoted basis to some of our opportunities and it goes back to kind of what Jim said if you got quality opportunities there's still a market out there for them.
And just a final if I may I see what's happening with all the things currently in the Gulf of Mexico and in your Ops Report.
But what's sort of next in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico beyond Shenandoah beyond the appraisal of Yeti.
What's in line in the next six months nine months? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah we've got a couple of other prospects that are on the drill schedule.
I think Opal is one that is a new play type kind of a  I wouldn't say it's a frontier basin but it's a frontier play within that basin.
We've got another one called Haleakala that we're moving forward.
I mentioned the Phobos appraisal.
So those types of things.
We've got deep inventory we're maturing things as we go.
And then we're learning also from the wells we drill and rolling that back in to see what other opportunities it may lead to.
And Opal is the big stratigraphic test if I recollect? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> That's correct.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I think with that we have gone through all the folks in the queue for questions.
And I'd just like to wrap up by saying a couple of things.
One you can anticipate that this management team will continue to watch what oil production in the U.S.
does.
The last time we were on this call we were at about 9.4 million barrels a day.
I think as most of you know we're at 9.7 million barrels today.
That was one of the reasons we were being very cautious last quarter.
We did not see the drop off occurring in the second quarter.
At some point the lack of capital being deployed into assets in the U.S.
will cause 9.7 million to decline.
I think like others we'll continue to watch that in terms of understanding how to deploy capital as simple as that.
I mean we think one of the most important things we do as a management team is make good capital calls and I think historically we've done a pretty good job of that.
We will be driven as I mentioned earlier by attractive rates of return.
So when we deploy capital we're deploying it in places we believe gives us a very attractive rate of return.
You can also expect that we will and continue to be if not the most active manager of our portfolio one of the most.
I can't imagine in the last six or seven years anybody that's more actively managed their portfolio than we've been.
I think if you think about growth as I made the comment we will have growth when economics warrant.
And we will give you some view of that when we start to see it.
And lastly we will continue to do the things that we did really well historically particularly when you think back to the 2008 or 2009 period where we were not going through one of the more robust periods in our industry.
We committed significant dollars to exploration and we're doing that again because we like the optionality that comes with exploration and I'll reiterate we're very excited about the successes we've had in the quarter and in particular what we're seeing in offshore Colombia.
So with that  we all appreciate each of you being on the call today.
We cannot say thank you enough for the support we get from a number of our investors and we look forward to seeing you in the coming weeks and months.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Anadarko Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please also note today's event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Rocco.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's third quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation does include forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions.
However a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
Additionally we have provided additional detail in our Quarterly Ops Report on our website.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and we'll open the lines in a few minutes for Q&amp;A with Al and our executive team following his remarks.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John.
And good morning.
As we've said throughout the year in this period of lower commodity prices our focus is on building and preserving value rather than on growth.
And we're accomplishing what we set out to do.
I can't say enough about the efforts of our employees this year the tremendous operational successes they've achieved and how these actions have made Anadarko a better company.
We're enhancing our wellhead margins by reducing costs and improving operating efficiencies.
We've increased oil sales volumes by more than 42 000 barrels per day to-date over 2014 on a divestiture-adjusted basis and continue to improve our liquids product mix.
In addition to improving our cost structure by working with our service providers and vendors we're also making permanent process enhancements and optimizing our operations in a manner that is sustainable over the longer term.
Along these lines I want to highlight a couple of assets that really illustrate how we are sustaining our business and improving it every day.
If you remember last quarter we discussed the exceptional efficiency gains achieved in the Wattenberg field by doubling the number of wells per rig line versus the prior year.
Believe it or not we're safely making further improvements sequentially by reducing cycle times during the quarter by almost 20% and cost per foot by almost 15%.
Since last year our organization has further reduced our costs by nearly $70 per foot drilled on each well.
That's a savings of almost of $1 million per well as a result of our enhanced wellbore design.
Plus because of the work our company has done the Delaware Basin is gaining ground on the success we enjoy in the Wattenberg field as one of most attractive and economic plays in our onshore portfolio and one of the best in our industry.
Even though we're not choosing to chase growth at this time on our 650 000 gross acre position the work we're doing is laying the foundation for the future.
At our Wolfcamp oil play this year alone we've reduced our per well costs by $4 million to $7.5 million with direct line of sight to another $1.5 million to as much as $2 million per well in expected savings at a time we choose to pursue growth and migrate towards pad drilling across the field.
For the past several years we've focused on being financially disciplined.
And we entered 2015 with a mindset of maintaining the strength of our balance sheet by aligning capital investments with anticipated cash inflows.
This approach has served our stakeholders exceptionally well in the current environment.
The delta between our capital investments and discretionary cash flow totals $730 million which includes $405 million of WES capital.
So we've covered the difference several times over by monetizing nearly $2 billion of assets this year.
In addition we're continuing to demonstrate our commitment to financial discipline by lowering the high end of our 2015 capital guidance by an additional $100 million as well as lowering our LOE guidance.
At this time like many companies we're evaluating 2016.
At Anadarko our program will be similar to our mindset in 2015 and that's investing within our cash inflows.
This approach is expected to result in lower CapEx and sales volumes that are relatively flat year-over-year on a divestiture-adjusted basis.
Given the challenging supply and demand fundamentals and continued uncertainty around sustainably higher oil prices you can expect us to see continued investment in higher-percentage longer-cycle opportunities such as exploration where we achieved some very encouraging early results offshore Colombia as well as success delineating our activities at Shenandoah and advancing our mega projects like Heidelberg where we've cleared all the major construction and installation hurdles and are now on an accelerated timeline for first oil.
Consistent with our 2015 approach to capital allocation we'll continue to invest fewer dollars in short-cycle U.S.
onshore activities.
This approach reflects our conviction that growth will not be rewarded in this environment and focusing on preserving and building value is more appropriate at this time.
Looking ahead we'll remain focused on creating value by enhancing our wellhead margins and moderating our base decline improving cost efficiencies maintaining an active exploration program and pursuing ongoing monetizations like we have done in prior years.
The value we are creating today will give us the foundation for future success.
And when we see value in pursuing growth we'll be prepared to accelerate activity.
So with that why don't we open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Let me start off just following up on your evolving thoughts on the 2016 budget given the commodity price deterioration and the deterioration or the lack of access in the MLP space since the last call.
Can you provide color on commodity pricing scenarios? Is there a maximum outspend? And how does that relate to or your thoughts on forward asset sales and accessing the MLP markets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start by just saying we don't have any better crystal ball than anybody else on what prices are going to be in 2016 and 2017.
And our approach is plan for the worst and hope for the best.
Consequently we have a fairly low expectation not much different than the forward curve maybe even a little more pessimistic than that in terms of how we might plan for capital.
As it relates to asset sales I think going back to January of this year when we talked about not pursuing growth maybe a little bit earlier than most and that we would continue to execute a plan that included portfolio management and the sale of assets we still believe that will be something we'll do in 2016.
And I think the comments that we continue to make around wanting to be cash neutral with our CapEx will hold the day.
I think we've done a pretty darn good job of that since 2007 and I can't see 2016 being a different page in our playbook.
So a similar size on an asset disposal program going forward is your thought within that living within cash flow inclusive of asset sales? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm making the comment that we'll live within cash.
And so if you look at this year and you think about my prepared comments and how I highlighted the fact that this year we've exceeded what we believe to be our cash inflows with outflows that speaks to the fact that we do think it's very important to make sure that we're financially disciplined and that we continue to look for opportunities to sell assets where we think they're either non-core or the market sees a value in them greater than we do.
I think we've done a pretty darn good job of that since 2007 so it's not just all of a sudden we're waking up and trying to do that in 2016.
Great that makes sense.
And a second question if I could.
Any guidance on 2016 maintenance CapEx or spend to stay flat which is likely lower due to efficiencies drawdowns as well as your offshore startups? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the number that we've been using recently it's probably still an appropriate number and that's about $2.7 billion in terms of that maintenance number you're looking for and that is still a function of lots of things that are assumptions in that including commodity prices and service costs.
So I would call that a good placeholder number but I don't think there's a lot of precision around it and I'm not sure anybody could give you a lot of precision at any time when there's as much volatility in the market as there is.
That's fair.
Congrats on the Shenandoah appraisal.
Can you discuss how the results compare to pre-drill expectations or comments on reservoir quality and then go-forward plans? I'll leave it at that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Evan for the congratulations.
Team did a really good job on that and we're real pleased with it.
We got 622 feet of pay what we ended up doing was we tested up to the north with trying to find out where the basin edge was and the first well established where the basin edge was.
Then we came in and drilled to the south with a sidetrack and got the 622 feet of pay.
It was all oil.
We encountered no water in that.
The reservoir quality in the initial assessment looks pretty  well it looks comparable to everything else we found out there so very good reservoir quality.
We're still in the early stages of that evaluation.
We're in the process of getting a core so we just kicked off and we're going to do a bypass core just right next to this well and that's to establish the reservoir quality in the oil column which will roll directly into our development planning.
So it's very important to get that core and we're just in the process of it.
That's going to give us a much better handle on all the fluid properties all the reservoir properties but we pushed the lowest known oil down about 400 feet.
As I mentioned we didn't establish an oil-water contact here so that tells us there's more down below us.
And we're looking at what the forward plan is after this bypass core as to what else we're going to need to turn over to the planning team for the development planning.
But we're very encouraged with what we saw and it was all well within the range of expectation of what we had put out there.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Doug.
This guy got your last name right.
Yeah yeah.
I thought you're going to comment on my voice I sound a little husky this morning.
So guys on the capital allocation for next year so I get the living within cash flow.
But given the very strong performance you seem to be having in the Delaware how should we think about how you're allocating capital to your core plays? And could you maybe just touch on where you're not spending capital what the implications are for potentially there's a lot of asset sales that are likely to deliver this quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Doug as you can appreciate we like all of our companies in our sector right now are trying to decide how we want to allocate capital next year looking into very at best fuzzy picture of what that's going to look like.
I think as you think about our company our two principal onshore assets in the DJ Basin and the Delaware Basin is where a majority if not almost all of our onshore capital will be spent.
If you think about how we allocate capital between short intermediate and long probably somewhere around the 40% allocation level will go into short and a large percentage of that 40% will go into those two asset plays as a percentage of whatever the budget turns out to be.
To Evan's point would it be fair to think about asset monetizations as basically funding the non-productive capital.
Is that  as one of the levers you have? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It could.
I think asset sales in any given year for us and certainly 2015's a good example.
I'm not sure we had a lot of people that agreed with us back in January when we made the comments we made then about not pursuing growth and continue to be active with portfolio management and that we would sell properties there in an environment that looked pretty challenging and yet we did.
So I think as we think about how we want to recycle capital and reinvest it there will be assets that we look at that we would prefer to take and recycle that capital into things that have better trajectory around growth and returns.
Okay.
Thank you Al.
Just two quick follow-ups if I may.
I guess the first one is I think yourself and Bob perhaps (14:50) around.
Bob and yourself put a cap amongst the pigeons a little bit earlier this year by alluding to Anadarko possibly looking at acquisitions.
I wonder if you could give us your thoughts on that.
And my final one is on Paon just a comment on those additional blocks you got.
Does that say anything about where you think the extent of the Paon discovery moves next given that you added those two blocks in Cte d'Ivoire? I'll leave you there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well hope you feel better.
You do sound like you're just not 100%.
And I'll ask Bob Daniels if he would address your Paon question.
On the M&amp;A I'll stay with the comment that we always make and that is our objective every day is to be a better company not necessarily a bigger company.
But if in an effort to get better we have situations that would cause us to get bigger we'll certainly evaluate those.
And the areas onshore that we have I made comments just here a few minutes ago about where we want to see ourselves spending our capital whether it's cash or cash flow.
I think those are the areas of asset acquisitions that we would focus on.
And Bob if you want hit on Paon.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Doug on Paon we picked up one block not two.
We ended up with the CI-527 block is a new block and that fit in between the CI-103 where Paon is located and the CI-528 CI-529 blocks we already had acquired.
And so we have a contiguous four block area out there.
The reason we picked up CI-527 block was two-fold.
One it looked like there was a potential that the Paon accumulation could spill into CI-527 not in a huge way but we certainly didn't want to have somebody else get into our business there.
And then we shot a 3D that covered the entire area earlier and CI-527 was part of that 3D and when we looked at the prospectivity CI-528 CI-529 and then the new CI-527 we could see that that also came up onto the new block.
And so we went to the government.
We were able to negotiate for CI-527 and put that into the portfolio.
It makes for a better position out there a stronger position that we control.
And so we have both the Paon appraisal work that's going to go on as soon as we're done in Colombia.
And then we have exploratory drilling that we're planning in the three exploratory blocks CI-527 CI-528 CI-529 probably starting next year.
We'll see how that all ends up with the budget issues.
But right now that's the plan.
We like the area out there.
The Paon is  we're going to learn a lot from the DST that we're going to do out there with the No.
5 well.
And then we'll be looking at getting some exploratory wells drilled.
All right.
Bob just a quick follow-up.
The 90% working interest I'm assuming that's not your long-term plan.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No we've got 90% working interest in the three exploratory blocks and we just opened a data room.
We're waiting for the CI-527 block to be finalized so that we could then put the whole package together.
So those'll be all put together as a package.
Great stuff.
Thanks very much everybody.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Brian.
Can you talk to how your backlog of drilled and uncompleted wells in the oily plays as well as the curtailed volumes in the gassy plays play into your capital allocation for 2016? Should we expect these to be deployed to help you improve cash flow without drilling or are there some minimum drilling requirements to maintain efficiencies where you would wait until prices improve more dramatically before bringing that backlog on? Yeah Brian.
This is Darrell.
If you look at what we're calling our IDUCs today the intentionally deferred uncompleted wells we got a lot of flexibility around that.
To-date we've got about 200 of these largely in Wattenberg but really in our big three assets if you will is where they all reside.
And I think you can look at that as flexibility as we go into 2016.
We obviously have the option to stand up completion rigs here and our completion crews here in the fourth quarter.
But with commodity being what it is I'm not sure that's going to be our best move forward.
But I think if you look at 2016 for sure as we look to pull back capital these are going to be very efficient opportunities for us to maintain our volumes while spending less capital.
So I think you can look at it as a huge lever for our 2016 program.
That's great.
Thanks.
And my follow-up is on the offshore.
Can you characterize the cost structure you see now for development projects those that as you think about the rates of return from a Shenandoah I know that's still well in the future but also a Mozambique what oil or LNG price do you need now versus say a year ago? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> We're seeing cost reductions across the board offshore.
Obviously the ultra-deepwater drillship market has come down significantly.
We're also seeing a lot of the services supported on the rig side as well wireline pumping services mud and cementing operations.
That being said though they probably haven't approached the commodity price reduction so we're having to when we look at our offshore developments look at larger more prolific reservoirs as Shenandoah is.
It has a very high oil column and we'll be testing deliverability of these oil columns to see what type of flow rates we have.
So we aren't going to be able to offset the commodity prices completely but what we'll look at are higher flow rate completions and try to work the cost structure down on the offshore marine development systems as well.
We brought in new six generation rigs and the initial results on those wells were very very encouraging as far as reducing our cycle time to drill.
So we're seeing some costs improvements that just not so much equate to service reductions but efficiencies in drill times.
Some of our recent wells in Heidelberg have hit record costs for us of less than $100 million to drill.
That's not the completion cost but drill cost.
That's great.
That's helpful.
Any Mozambique update as part of that? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Well the LNG markets are affected as the oil markets as well.
I would say this: As the Mozambique project progresses we're in the market with procurement regarding the subsea equipment the infrastructure the offshore type order lay vessels to put everything in place for the offshore development.
And then the onshore development for liquefaction we've already gone to FEED tender.
And those costs are coming in better than the original costs we had primarily due to the competition in the marketplace right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Brian this is Al.
I know you very likely know this and so I don't mean to repeat something I know you're well aware of but just in case others are not.
We believe that our cost of providing gas into a market there if we're not the lowest-cost producer we're certainly one of the lowest-cost producers in the world in how we bring that Mozambique LNG into the market at the back end of this decade.
And I think that gives us a tremendous advantage in terms of how this project will move forward and when we've been most recently in front of the utilities in Japan why they see this as a very attractive place for off-take agreements in a market that's pretty crowded today.
They just see the potential for multiple trains beyond the first two and recognize the benefit of being a foundational buyer.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Al you talked a little bit about M&amp;A.
But can you talk about just the current bid-ask spread? I think it was a year ago when you came out and said it's a seller's market.
Can you talk about how that's changed over the last three months if you're seeing any movement there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Bob Gwin and I can tackle that one with you.
I'll give you my thoughts and he can give you his and if he disagrees with me he can do that too.
I think like most people we still see this extraordinarily large amount of private equity that's been raised.
And most people seem to gravitate around $100 billion as the number that's been raised and prepared to be committed to the sector over the next couple of years for investment if the right opportunities present themselves.
So unlike the public markets where you have a little bit different dynamic at work where we see ourselves today trying to bid on properties in markets where we have interest we are being pretty consistently outbid.
And most oftentimes we're being outbid by private equity-backed management teams.
And so I'm not sure I'd call that a seller's market quite like I did previously but I would say it's a healthy bid-ask in terms of exactly what's happening with properties when they come into the market and the receptivity they're getting.
Yeah David.
This is Bob.
I agree with Al.
It's pretty clear that there are a number of management teams the number that I've heard most recently is maybe as many as 95 of them out there that have private equity backing that haven't deployed capital yet in the market.
And the types of assets that we've been selling both earlier this year the three EOR East Texas and CBM that we've announced we're in a size range that's a sweet spot for those types of buyers.
And so I agree with Al.
It's not the seller's market that it was earlier this year where we saw that on things we bid on we might be getting outbid to the tune of 2x and had had substantial success selling into it.
But we believe that there's still a supply and demand fundamental around these assets that in 2016 for the right assets and the ones that we're looking at that likely wouldn't receive funding in our portfolio over the next several years but still have really nice return characteristics associated with them.
We feel like it's going to be solid enough to be able to execute a program and it's the reason it's part of our planning going into 2016.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Al let me go a little philosophical on you.
I hear what you're saying about returns.
And I know in theory that's the right thing to do for a company and I know that's what the market should reward.
But as you know over your career growth has been rewarded rather than returns.
I know you've got to do what's right for Anadarko but I'm just trying to balance those two in my head if I start thinking about  2015's obviously done.
Let's just look out to 2017 2018.
How do you think about that? Because calling for a change in shareholder behaviors seems to be a difficult thing to do.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's a fair question and a fair comment.
And I'd say historically the observation has a lot of accuracy.
My early read on say the first nine or so months of this year is we've seen the buy side reward capital efficiency probably better than they historically have.
As we move into potentially a longer period of lower prices I think efficiency will still be something that gets rewarded and capital allocation around that efficiency will as well.
So I think as you look at companies like ourselves and we're not unique but those companies that have good wellhead margins that are being able to improve those margins through the cost efficiencies like we've been talking about this morning that are on top of that good allocators of capital I do believe in the I'll call it the intermediate term that we probably will see the market the buy side reward companies that can achieve that.
And if you go back to the company it was created out of three companies in 2006.
And since 2007 I think this company and this management organization has done a really good job of allocating capital.
And it's one of the things that while we've had anything but a stable market to sell into or have had anything but a stable situation with respect to how we had to manage through two very difficult situations with Tronox and Macondo the allocation of capital became I really believe one of the things that allowed us to get through that when you coupled it with what the employees were able to achieve with all of the allocation and decision-making and being able to move capital around and doing things in the field efficiently.
So David I do believe we're probably entering into a period that maybe is a little different than the historical norm.
And I think we saw a little bit of that in 2008 and 2009.
But if you go back a couple more downcycles and look at it your comment's fair.
It's typically been a market that rewards growth.
And even in a period where you don't have wellhead margins growth seems to be the mantra.
I'm not seeing as much of that personally today.
I'd be interested to know if Bob who works hand-in-glove with the capital markets as much as anybody in our organization if you see it any different.
I don't see it differently in the current environment.
You asked I think as far out David as say 2018.
And one of the things that we're focused on with capital allocation and the reason we're focused in as Al mentioned earlier in the onshore the Wattenberg and the Delaware is that these are assets that have tremendous intrinsic growth potential.
And so we remain in a position where we could dial up the rig count and dial up the completions fairly quickly.
And even for a company our size we feel we'd have the ability to deliver material growth combining that type of onshore growth with the mega projects that we're bringing on in 2016 and on the back side of that Mozambique.
So it's not a matter of we're ignoring growth.
We're remaining ready for growth.
We just think that the better allocation of capital today is to focus on building that kind of longer term value and not accelerating growth selling your best assets into a relatively lower margin environment.
Everybody's going to drill.
Onshore in the U.S.
everybody's going to drill their Tier 1.
They're going to focus on producing that Tier 1 and then they're going to redeploy the capital into their next best assets.
And frankly that's not the way to maximize in our opinion that's not the way to maximize value unless your shareholders are really telling you that growth matters more than value and what we've heard and what we continue to believe in is that value preservation on the onshore and value building in the other parts of our portfolio to be positioned for a more constructive commodity price environment is the right way to approach it today.
Okay.
Yeah thanks for the thorough answer.
I'll keep it at two.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from Bob Brackett of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
A question on the divestitures.
How do you think about the minimum price you'd take for an asset? Is it strip pricing is it what you're carrying the asset at? How do you think through that? There's no real fundamental rule.
Obviously we have a pretty good view of what we think the asset is worth at a variety of different price environments.
And at some of those price environments some of these assets theoretically could get funded in the future if the capital budget materially expands.
But you know it when you see it when you see a bid that you start to look at what pro forward (31:08) price expectations you'd need to achieve in order to have it attract capital.
It makes it pretty straightforward to decide that it's better to go ahead and sell it today.
And obviously you know that the tax implications matter and whether or not we've got somewhere to go redeploy that capital matters.
Where it's not selling assets for the sake of selling them but look at what we did this year with EOR and dry gas in East Texas.
EOR that hadn't free cash flowed for us in a number of years dry gas in East Texas where we hadn't run a rig in a number of years and then coal bed methane which really requires a materially higher gas price to warrant capital in our portfolio.
Selling those assets and redeploying in intermediate and long cycle assets that build our inventory and our optionality and our growth for future to us is a clear positive trade.
And so with those types of assets we weren't necessarily trying to achieve absolute top dollar.
We were trying to achieve something we felt was worth more in the portfolio and helped us to increase kind of our NAV of the company by making that trade of divesting today and reinvesting in the future.
So it's multidimensional.
It's asset specific and it's use of proceeds around the assets that on an after-tax basis we receive.
Great.
Thanks for that.
Quick follow-up on Latin America two thoughts there.
One any color on Colombia? The other you had an offset operator in Guyana have a pretty sizable discovery.
Is there any read across to your Guyana activities? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah this is Bob.
And on the Colombia we had the Kronos well that we announced as the uphole section last quarter as a discovery and then we went on down to the downhole section.
We did encounter some hydrocarbons there non-commercial type things.
We encountered a lot more sand than what we'd seen in the shallower section.
We had good evidence of the thermogenic hydrocarbons in the lower section but we still have a lot of work to do.
I mean this is the southernmost well that we're probably going to drill in our acreage position which is 16 million acres in the deepwater.
We're drilling now 100 miles away on the same Fuerte area and then we've got the coal blocks up to the north that we're shooting seismic on.
So when you look at it we're 300 miles to 350 miles from north to south out here.
There's a huge area we have to evaluate and we need to take what we learn and the Kronos area the Calasu well what we're seeing on the seismic data and put it all together but right now we're still real excited about Colombia and look forward to drilling more wells there next year.
When you talk about Guyana you talked about the Exxon discovery offshore Guyana.
It looks to be a nice discovery.
I'd say the read-through to us is the petroleum system works out there and it works in a fairly good positive way.
Our block is located to the north and west of theirs outboard.
And the main thing that we have going on in Guyana right now is if you remember several years ago we were doing some drop core work as part of our overall commitment out there and the Venezuelan navy showed up and escorted our ship over to Venezuela.
So we're working with the government of Guyana encouraging them to work with Venezuela to get this border issue settled.
We felt like we were significantly inside the established border when this happened.
And so we're waiting to see how that all plays out and we'll watch of course what's going on at the Exxon appraisal program to see how it spills over potentially into our block.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Subash Chandra of Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Mozambique back to the point on the breakeven costs I think.
What is that number that you're forecasting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Subash I'm not aware that we've ever given that number out and largely because we don't have final numbers from our FEED contractors.
So I think that's probably a to-be-determined number for us.
I think the only comments we've provided to-date is that we believe that we can now build a two train twelve million ton per annum facility for what we originally thought was a two train 10 million ton per annum facility.
And our ability to continue to improve what will be cost associated with that development in this environment should go down.
So consequently I think those are the factors that you  it's really difficult to tell you what a breakeven is and not one that today we could even begin to estimate.
Okay okay.
We'll wait on that then.
The other thing is to interpret I guess the DUC commentary is it fair to interpret that that the DUCs the intentional DUCs have a very high chance of being completed regardless of the commodity price environment? And that it would be offset by perhaps the rig count going lower between now and yearend? So the number of wells are still in line but the DUCs just because they're sort of pre-expensed half pre-expensed or whatever get the preferential completion schedule? Subash this is Darrell.
Yeah I would look at it that way I mean as we look at it today we're pulling down some of our rig inventory now and we'll continue to do that in 2016.
And it'll be largely to the benefit of completing these DUCs.
Yeah they're not really half pre-expensed though.
The drilling cost is maybe 25% of the total well cost and with still 75% of the capital associated with the completion.
So there's not nearly as much sunk capital waiting on completion as you might otherwise expect.
And I think one of the other big benefits that people don't recognize with these DUCs if you look back at some of the savings we've achieved this year in our completions to have completed these wells earlier in the year when our cost structure was much higher would have actually hurt those economics.
We really see some benefits now in really completing these wells a year later in some cases because it's going to continue to push our cost down if you will and improve our economics on these wells.
Okay.
And the final one for me so the service companies are now pretty broadly complaining about that they're operating at sort of negative cash flows.
Do you agree with that and the takeaway being where at what price do you think the inflation kicks back in? Well you know I'm not really sure that's a question for us to be honest Subash.
You'd have to really talk to the service companies because it's not really something we monitor and track and how they operate their business and what their breakeven cash costs are we couldn't begin to estimate.
Yeah.
That's fair.
If I could just put it another way do you see any more deflation occurring? Well.
Again this is Darrell.
I will tell you we continue to see decreases in that price structure.
I won't say as significant as what we saw earlier in the year but there's still a lot of competition out there and a lot of pressure to get the cost down and so we are seeing the benefit of that we're continuing to.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Just a quick follow-up question.
You obviously had (38:50) for the DUCs going into next year but what would it take for you guys to actually reinvigorate drilling? I know it's obviously a bearish outlook at this point in time is the right way to think of it.
But what makes you change your mindset? What price level makes you feel (39:10)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Scott I'll go back to the comment I made in January.
Until we see service costs sync up to a price environment for the commodities that causes us to feel like growth can be achieved and sustained and that in turn we'll be rewarded we're not prepared to kind of estimate what that is because we don't know exactly where the service costs are going to end up.
And certainly we're no better than picking the volatility associated with oil or natural gas than anybody else.
But when you think about oil natural gas and natural gas liquids and the headwind that we as industry are finding ourselves in with respect to all three of those we're nowhere close to it today and the comment I made in January I think is still apropos.
We need to see a substantially different commodity price environment than we have today combined with a substantially different cost environment.
Now some of those costs have come in and we're starting to understand better what we think will be the right margin to go back to work in a growth environment that the investor would reward.
But we don't see anything close to that in the near term with the type of commodity outlook you can see through respective strips for how those commodities are traded.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And if you look at it as I think the industry entered into 2015 it looked like the service cost environment probably reflected a $90 oil environment.
Where do you think that is today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think when we were at $90 and call it $4 the service costs that we've seen contract to-date that created a margin at that time we haven't seen that type of service cost contraction to get us back to a $90 and $4.
If you're a successful efforts company call it EBITDAX per BOE.
And I'm not sure that we could in fact see that margin restore just through service costs alone.
It's going to take an improvement in the price per BOE whether it's gas or oil or natural gas liquids that if you went through the arithmetic I think you'd find that we're going to need to see a lot more from both of the principle commodities than we've got today and then it becomes very basin specific then transportation costs associated with getting that to the market.
So there's really not a generic answer from our perspective.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one last one on Mozambique.
You discussed a little bit about that already in the call but again coming into this year I think the idea was to sanction the project by year-end.
Where do you see that occurring now and what are the implications on the CapEx that would have been allocated in 2016 to the project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well nothing really new has developed that's caused us any concerns.
I think we continue to believe that ultimately this process is somewhat controlled in the hands of the government.
We can do all that we can do and I think we're seeing the current administration working very hard in its first year to advance all the things contractually they need to advance.
We've been very pleased with the way in which the Nyusi administration has addressed each of the things that we've brought before them.
Seems like there's good partner alignment and while we were the first to say it was a better price environment for LNG when oil was $100 you still have some benefits here by the comments I made earlier about being a low-cost producer that I think gives us an advantage with our off-take agreements with principally East Asian buyers.
So in general it's still pretty good.
I think the benefit of what you've got with us is you've got a company as we look out into 2016 that can be even less capital intensive with respect to maintaining our sales volumes in 2016 versus 2015 and still has the capital to invest in the intermediate and long cycle things that we think creates a lot of value for our investors long term.
And I think that optionality and flexibility in our portfolio is really one of those things that we certainly think distinguishes us from others and have heard that from investors as well.
And then you just have to allocate the capital correctly between your opportunities.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thank you.
Two quick ones for me.
With the Delaware you bought some checkerboarded acreage.
How hard is it to procure it these days? And also going forward when prices normalize how quickly would it take for you to get to a pad mode? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John this is Al.
We do have a checkerboarded position as you correctly identified.
And it is not an easy land situation to manage because it's very fractured in the Delaware Basin beyond the checkerboarding that we have already.
And as we try to block-up in that area it's really a difficult thing to do.
And that's why making acquisitions where we think they're accretive and are attractive help us in that blocking approach.
And I think the type of returns we would want to see from the Delaware would need to start to approach what we've got today in the DJ in order to feel like going into a development mode created value for our shareholders.
And we're not quite there because we don't have the benefit of the mineral interest underneath the working interest in the Delaware like we do the DJ Basin.
And yet from everything we've seen and I'll ask Darrell to elaborate but from everything we're seeing we're seeing really productive wells.
That's why we took the EURs up.
We believe once we go into pad drilling we can drive down the costs further.
And I made reference to the fact that we can get another $1.5 million to $2 million per well to be able to drive down once that works.
But it's really almost the sustainability of a higher oil price than just getting to a higher oil price.
You have to believe that once you get there it's sustainable.
And these pop-ups and pop-downs that we're seeing and the volatility associated with how oil is moving around is largely what's giving us a lot of pause and hesitation.
So Darrell please? Yeah I think the only thing I'd add to that is once we can get to that more of a stable commodity price if you will the upside of Delaware just continues to get a whole lot better.
It seems like every time we do a look-back on our existing wells we're seeing additional EURs.
So we're extremely encouraged there.
We talk about approaching 1 million BOEs.
In some cases we think we're well over 1 million.
But as a whole I think the important thing is is across the entire acreage position as we've continued to drill there we're seeing the EURs move up.
So we're really encouraged.
It's still early in the life.
So we're hopeful that this will only continue to get better.
And so as we see commodity pickup we're ready to go.
I think getting into a pad drilling effort will be huge for us because we will see a lot of synergies like we have in our previous shale plays.
And so we're waiting for that day we can start standing up more rigs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John can I just add one more thing to that? As we think about the success we've had in the DJ Basin with our approach to the infrastructure there and the way in which we want to manage our midstream and evacuation risk we're doing the same thing in the Delaware.
And we probably actually have the benefit of having an even more aggressive approach to the midstream and what we're trying to attempt with the Delaware simply because these Wolfcamp benches are just really incredibly prolific at this point as we understand them better.
And I know there are a lot of companies that always feel like they've got really good assets.
But boy I'll stack up the DJ and the Delaware Basin as an asset play in this environment with anything anybody's got in their portfolio.
They are really resilient and they actually do have to Darrell's point tremendous running room when you're ready to go to growth.
Great.
Thanks.
My next one is on the deepwater.
You've accelerated Heidelberg and you're only tying in three wells.
Is this going to be the new mantra not tie in all the wells but just get enough to get cash flow up and going? Or what's the strategy there? And then lastly in the Cte d'Ivoire will you make an announcement the first quarter once you run the interference test at Paon? This is Jim.
And I'll address the discussion on Heidelberg and then let Bob talk about the exploration in Cte d'Ivoire.
In Heidelberg the timing on the wells is really due to the drilling and the completion plans we had set.
I wouldn't say that having three wells partial well completion would be our mantra going forward.
It's simply the timing.
Our project team has made incredible progress here in the last I'd say six months.
The Gulf of Mexico has had difficult Loop Currents and they were successful in placing the hull and the topsides and the commissioning work ongoing for the topsides is in process.
And as they've advanced that ahead of schedule we've pulled the start date up a few months early.
So it's just a timing issue on when the wells will be completed and then brought online across the facility.
Thanks.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah John we'll announce the results whatever quarter it's done.
We probably won't even start that process until early in the New Year or maybe very very late December.
So whether we get it done in the first quarter or the second quarter we'll be releasing it once we have that information.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks John.
And our next question comes from Charles A.
Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Al and to the rest of your team there.
If we could go back to a comment you made in your prepared comments you mentioned that you think in 2016 you foresee flat volumes versus 2015 on a divestiture-adjusted basis if I heard that correctly.
Could you decompose that a bit by product and geography? And particularly I'm thinking about one of the big pieces is the tailwind I think you're going to have from your Gulf of Mexico developments on the oil side.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yes you did reference the comment correctly.
And we do see ourselves being cash neutral to our CapEx as we go into next year are our preliminary thoughts.
Now we've not taken a plan yet to our board for approval so those are very early ideas on our part.
And you can anticipate given that we haven't run a dry rig or a rig for dry gas in over two years that our percentage of oil continue to increase in our mix.
You've seen that through the course of this year and you saw the increase year-over-year for the quarter of 24 000 barrels per day of greater oil.
And I think you should anticipate oil will continue to be a bigger percentage of our overall mix in 2016 even if the capital on a year-over-year basis is likely down unless commodity prices do something that I don't anticipate.
Got it.
And any comment on geographies? In particular it looks like U.S.
onshore oil is where we're seeing strength although I know in Algeria we had that weather delayed tanker (51:04).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think we'll probably in a position as we usually are in early March with our with our Analyst Conference to be able to give you the granularity you're looking for once we have a budget approved by our board.
Okay.
Thank you on that Al.
And then perhaps dovetailing to that the cycle times in the Wattenberg I have to say I'm not surprised that they're improving but the magnitude is a little bit surprising especially given that we're nine months into a downturn.
And I'm wondering if you could talk a bit more about what's going on there and what the prospects are for that to perhaps continue either in the Wattenberg or into other parts of your onshore portfolio.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the short answer is Darrel's really good.
I had already assumed that.
And let me give you the longer version then Charles.
But the redesign was probably the biggest thing we did out there.
And so right now we're working on a rate of penetration there in some of our non-productive time to continuously improve on what we're doing there on the drilling side.
I think the other part of that equation is early on as we changed some of this design we didn't have it going across all of our rig fleet and today we do.
And so you're seeing the benefit of that across the whole fleet out there and so that's a part of that improvement as well.
As far as going forward I think the opportunity probably rests with both our completions and even some of the facility costs that we have in front of us.
We're working on a central oil stabilizer system right now which essentially allows us to put less equipment on some of our well sites today.
So I see that there's going to be a future opportunity to get that DC&amp;E cost down in the Wattenberg.
That's helpful Darrell.
Thanks for your comments.
Okay.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could I could follow up.
You've discussed it a little bit in terms of the Permian.
But can you talk a bit about how you're managing both the resource delineation and the infrastructure build-out during this I guess we can consider over the downtime and how that will position you for acceleration when the commodity allows it? Well again this is Darrell.
Right now we're not in a development mode so we're continuously  you got a couple things going on.
We're holding acreage in some cases where the leases require it but in other cases we're still testing.
Again there's multiple benches out here although we generally talk about one bench within the Wolfcamp A but there's other benches here to be tested along with the completion styles we're using.
And so we're varying both the water and sand components here just to better understand how do you get these EURs up.
And so part of the discussion earlier on increased EURs we do think we're better understanding what completions are working out here.
And so again it's not a hodge-podge but we're going across a huge acreage position to better understand what we have so that when the commodity does turn and we go into development mode we'll probably start where a large part of our infrastructure is.
But we'll know where some of the better places are.
But as we recognize it right now really across the entire acreage we really think most of this is all Tier 1.
And so we're pretty excited about all the results we're getting in.
But to another point on the infrastructure side we continue to build that out.
Although we've slowed down some of our drilling activities we have not slowed down our build-out of the infrastructure.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
So I would assume that as the commodity turns you should have plenty of running room with few if any bottlenecks on the infrastructure side to be able to ramp materially.
Is that...
No I think that is fair.
Once things go into a pad drilling format if you will we'll likely start very near the infrastructure that's out there so that we ought to be up and running see the benefits on the production side pretty quickly.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
thanks.
And then maybe if I could do one quick follow-up and you may not have anything to add on Shenandoah but post the recent appraisal any additional thoughts on resource range there at Shenandoah? And on timing of the FID maybe it's too early to tell without seeing the core but do you have an idea whether you think you need one more appraisal well prior to FID or is this all that you'll need at this point? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Bob Ryan.
On the resource range we're riding where we thought.
We always do a probabilistic resource range.
We're still in that range with the results of the well.
We still haven't established a water contact over here so you still have uncertainties associated with that.
As to FID and whether or not we need additional wells I think those discussions are ongoing but I think we also need to get all the data in and really incorporate that into our thinking as to okay what do we have here for sure? What do we now have uncertainties around? And what does that mean for additional activities? So it's too early to say on whether there needs to be an additional well and the FID would come after that kind of a  or the pre-development work leading to an FID is ongoing but that would come after we've got all the data that we need.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thanks a lot.
I'll leave it there.
And our next question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Looking at the 2015 CapEx guidance and thinking about this next quarter the last couple quarters you've come in below the low end of guidance.
You talk about your DUC inventory that you have.
Can you help frame up where the CapEx is relative to your thoughts on DUCs at year-end and whether that's factored into the CapEx number? And likewise how that looks on the (57:27) side? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dave well we always give a risked operational profile for our objectives here.
And what we've done for the fourth quarter is we've included in our capital guidance the flexibility to add the additional completion crews to start working down the DUCs as indicated in the table in our ops report and the volumes reflect status quo.
So it's kind of the  we've covered ourselves both ways.
I think you'll be pleased with the outcome.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
So conservative in nature there.
One of the comments you made on maintenance CapEx I just want to kind of tie that up a little bit.
Keeping it kind of the same at $2.7 billion but you're seeing better performance in terms of base declines.
Looks like costs continue to come down slightly and efficiencies continue to go up.
I would suspect that would buy us that number a little lower.
Am I getting ahead of myself? Is there something else that would be keeping that flat versus the improvement we've seen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Dave.
I think you're seeing it correctly.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then just finally on the base decline part of things can you talk a bit about what the big drivers of those improvements have been and how you see that moving forward? Well you're talking about on the volume side in some of our big assets? Exactly.
Yeah I mean right now I would say there is upside in looking forward because again with the EUR improvement especially in Delaware that should just give us upside going forward and these are some of the results we're seeing now.
And so as we continue to do these look-backs hopefully we got additional upside to that.
But again remember Delaware is relatively new and we're drilling this thing across the field so we're pretty encouraged.
So I think there's going to be a lot of little things out there to help us.
So there's probably nothing I can point to specifically.
Okay.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks so much guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks thanks very much for your time.
I'll ask 10 questions.
So just two very short ones.
Spacing in the Wattenberg I know you were doing tests just an update there.
And then spacing in the Delaware.
I mean I guess it's a little early.
You've got the Wolfcamp and you've got the Bone Springs and obviously there are other sections but just maybe just a reminder of what spacing assumptions you're using today and where you see those going.
Yeah this is Darrell.
I would start with Wattenberg.
We were sort of at a  between the Codell and Niobrara we were sort of 12 wells to 14 wells per section.
Now our norm is more 16 wells.
But I can tell you we're looking at some tests this coming year from 20 wells to 30 wells per section.
And we'll see what the results there are but we're feeling pretty good that we probably from a section standpoint we think there's more to be recovered as we continue to get our well costs down.
We think there's more opportunity to increase that density.
And so we're feeling pretty good about that we'll end up adding to that as opposed to where we are today.
If you look at Delaware we're probably on 600 foot spacings based on what we know today but I continue to make the point this is early.
So the more oil we see in these sections and that we can recover that too may go  may be increase and a lot of that's going to just be driven by our drilling and completion costs.
So as we get those costs down economically we probably can afford to put more in a section if we're seeing those recoveries go up.
So it's a little earlier there but Wattenberg for sure we're seeing that density go up right now.
And then just on exploration very final question.
You've laid out a lot of work that you have to do on your existing discoveries but in terms of well caps next year maybe just talk through the main ones that still get into the program.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah we haven't finalized the plans for next year but there will be several in the Gulf of Mexico.
We'll probably have well caps in Colombia and also over in Cte d'Ivoire and beyond that we're still working the planning.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Look forward to the update.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Thank you.
And thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Colglazier and the rest of the team for any final remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well this is Al.
Let me just say we all recognize that these are challenging times not just for companies but for investors and for the broader investment community.
And we really appreciate the support we're seeing from investors and appreciate the support we're seeing from analysts that follow us.
You guys do a great job.
Thank you.
I know it's difficult right now to do your job.
It's difficult to do our job.
But I'll just leave you with this.
You can anticipate that our employees will go to work every day working as hard as they can to create as much value as they can given the market conditions that we're in.
And I think what we've achieved so far this year reflects that determination and hard work.
And you have our pledge as employees at Anadarko that we will come to work every day trying to create as much value as we can during a very challenging environment.
So good.
With that hope everybody has a good day and a good week and thank you for joining us.
And thank you sir.
Today's conference has now concluded and we thank you all for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there'll be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's year-end 2015 conference call.
I need to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions; however a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
So I encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last night's earnings release.
Additionally as we always do we've provided more detail in the Quarterly Operations Report on our website.
I'd like to take a moment and thank Robin Fielder for the contributions she's made to the IR team and her efforts over the last year-and-a-half.
She's transitioning back to the operations group and Shandell Szabo a geologist with experience across the company is joining our team and she's looking forward to taking your calls after the call today.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and we'll open the lines in a few minutes for Q&amp;A with Al and our executive team following his remarks.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John.
And I'd also like to take a moment and just say Shandell welcome to the organization that John has built and also introduce Mitch Ingram.
Many of you know Mitch joined us in the fourth quarter of last year as EVP of LNG coming to us from BG Group where he's an Executive Vice President of the technical aspects of the company as well as a member of the executive committee.
Mitch's background with BG includes many accomplishments.
Most noteworthy is the accomplishments he achieved associated with their Queensland Curtis LNG project.
Additionally I'd like to say how proud I am of our employees who served and proved more than once through the challenges of last year just how great they were at navigating the uncertain price environment we anticipated as we entered 2015.
Through their combined efforts we outperformed our initial expectations by increasing our higher margin oil sales and volumes while spending significantly less capital and improving our cost structure and enhancing efficiencies.
We also closed $2 billion of monetizations.
Additionally during the year we reduced our capital spending by almost 40% and oil prices fell by almost 50% over that time horizon.
We organically replaced more than 130% of our production with reserve additions at a cost of about $14 per BOE.
We also significantly increased the percentage of our reserves and the proved developed category to 80% at year-end 2015 compared to 69% at the end of 2014.
These achievements position us well to manage through the market uncertainty and volatility we see in the coming years.
As I mentioned in last night's news release and later this month we will recommend a capital program to our board that reflects our view of 2016 and beyond.
Our preliminary expectation is that APC will spend about $2.8 billion this year which is roughly half of what we spent in 2015 and 70% less than our expenditures in 2014.
As stated on other occasions we will favor value preservation and allocating this capital and as such our short-cycle U.S.
onshore investments will be impacted the most.
Frankly even with two of the best assets in North America we don't find the returns in this environment to be compelling.
Therefore we are choosing to fund a reduced program in the Wattenberg field and only a delineation and a lease preservation program in the Delaware Basin as we seek to preserve the shorter-cycle opportunities for a better day.
Even with these reductions our total sales volumes across the company are expected to only decline by 1% to 4% on a divestiture-adjusted basis with lower margin gas volumes accounting for all of the decline.
We expect to keep our divestiture-adjusted year-over-year oil sales volumes and the year-over-year Q4 exit rate oil production relatively flat.
Given our materially lower capital plans for 2016 this is very noteworthy and a result of exceptional efforts by our employees.
We plan to achieve this through starting the production of the Heidelberg spar much earlier than expected continued outperformance at Lucius the TEN complex in Ghana coming online as expected in Q3 and an increased focus on our Ghana tieback (05:25) opportunities.
Leveraging our infrastructure enables us to deliver these incredibly capital-efficient tieback opportunities which we believe generate rates of return of 30% to 100% even at today's prices.
We will also continue to seek innovative ways to monetize assets this year.
We already have greater than $1 billion of monetization opportunities that are at very advanced stages with no current plans to monetize more of our ownership in WGP in this environment.
As we have done historically with great success we plan to continue actively managing our portfolio this year and have other monetizations identified which will be pursued through the course of the year.
The quality of our balance sheet remains a key objective.
For the flexibility provided by our reduced capital program the ongoing benefits of an improved capital and cost structure and our pathway to several near-term monetizations we are very confident in our ability to maintain or decrease Anadarko's net debt levels this year while spending well inside of our cash inflows.
We look forward to going into greater detail about our capital plans and expectations for 2016 on our March 1 call which we look forward to doing as soon as possible but March 1 will be here soon enough.
During these times and more than ever our company's culture its employees its track record and its approach to value creation matter and we believe these are all competitive advantages for Anadarko.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Al I think you just addressed it there but obviously the big concern in the market has been the ability to maintain the investment-grade status and that's caused a lot of noise in the share price.
Any more detail you can give? It sounds like you've got $1 billion teed up and what else? Can you give any other color around that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dave.
I think we see the over $1 billion of monetizations doing a lot to address the question of how we're going to fund this year activities with cash.
Bob's been spending most of the quarter to-date with lots of different issues associated with the question you're asking so I probably will if you don't mind defer that question to him.
David great question.
Obviously everybody has seen that both agencies are taking down their price cases again.
Moody's placed essentially the entire sector on review.
We've provided them some preliminary numbers.
We're going to continue to work with them in the coming weeks and coming out of our board meeting next week to make sure they have the most recent and updated information available.
Now this is all part of normal course this time of year although usually all that is done after our investor call.
And we would hope and expect that the agencies are going to apply their historic standards and their historic methodology in their current analysis.
And on that basis if they do so we believe that we're soundly investment-grade and we'll become even more so as we execute the 2016 plan and the monetizations beyond that initial $1 billion-plus that Al referred to.
Obviously there's a lot of folks that are talking to the agencies a lot of rumors out there.
We can't predict at this stage what we think their actions are going to be.
We can only control the things we can control but we believe that the plan that we have easily identifiable and transparent maintains an investment-grade rating with all three of the agencies and puts us in a position to continue to execute the plan and refinance the debt that's coming due later this year.
Okay.
I have one follow-up.
I'm going to jump to ops and thanks for the color on that.
If I think about short-cycle I think about the Gulf of Mexico.
Can you just tell me  obviously short-cycle U.S.
production but how do we think about Gulf of Mexico start-up there kind of what volumes are you going to be adding there? And I assume those are still  those  with some of the tiebacks those are still in the plans for 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David very understandable question and I think you can appreciate that what we're trying to do today is paint the picture for more details that will come in March.
But I think Jim could give you an example of a tieback opportunity just to give you some color around the black and white Yeah.
This is Jim.
And let me just give you a brief overview of some of the fields that we have.
We have fields that are close to infrastructure that we can tie back at relatively low cost.
One of them is Caesar/Tonga and this field ties back to our Constitution spar.
It has a ribbon-like structure with a lot of undeveloped reserves that for relatively low cost we're able to drill and complete and tie back quickly wells that produce upwards from 6 000 barrels to 10 000 barrels a day.
So Caesar/Tonga offers those tieback opportunities.
And we have two wells one has been drilled and is in the completion phase.
The other one has been drilled and we'll be completing here into 2016 and bringing that on production here in the third quarter of 2016.
So that's an example of some of the tieback opportunities we have that are relatively short-cycle.
All right.
Thanks.
Appreciate all the answers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you David.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Al.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Al you've  the whole Anadarko investment case has I guess been predicated over the years with the balance you've had in your portfolio between short-cycle and long-cycle projects.
In this environment how do you plan or pace or think about things like Shenandoah Yeti Paon Mozambique given the uncertainty in the oil price? How do you think about how you continue to execute on those and basically get market recognition for the value? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Doug as always you ask really good questions and I appreciate your question a lot.
I think as we think about 2016 and taking the comment that's been made about trying to preserve value when you consider  I believe this year we would estimate that our maintenance CapEx is going to be about two-thirds of what it was in the prior year for maintaining volumes.
You couple that with  we anticipate our oil volumes being relatively flat through the year that only the decline we see on a divestiture-adjusted basis coming from gas.
We believe that at some point when growth matters again we're prepared to go back to growth but I think by lowering that maintenance CapEx two-thirds or two-thirds rather of what it was the prior year that's pretty impressive in terms of being able to create that value preservation that we're looking for.
I think these other longer-dated projects we believe today are worthy of spending capital expecting that oil is not going to be at $30 for the rest of our life.
And at some point when we make a decision to take either to sanction or FID any of these longer-dated projects it will be an environment which we believe we can recommend to our board first that we make that investment.
So I think that's the confidence I would have if I were an investor that we will do that when it's appropriate.
I appreciate that Al.
I'm probably going to get in trouble with Mr.
Colglazier for this one but I'm going to have a go anyway.
This is the first call you've had since the events of November.
I know that there's obviously some issues around debt maturities and stuff like that that perhaps some people think it's weighing on the balance sheet but on the share price.
Our feedback is probably just as much about whether there is still an active acquisition appetite at Anadarko.
So I wonder if you could maybe just take a minute to just give us an explanation as to why you thought the Apache deal was attractive to Anadarko and put those concerns to rest maybe once and for all.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well I thought you were probably talking about the MLP meltdown in November.
I didn't anticipate you were going to ask me about the other.
No.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think really the comments that we made back in November associated with the press release that day is about all I have to say on that matter.
There really isn't anything else that I could add to it.
In addition I think we continue to make the comment; I'll reaffirm it here.
And the acquisitions that we're most interested in have to do with areas that we have focused areas of concentrated operations be that in the DJ Basin or in the Delaware Basin.
Very competitive places in which to buy things but those are the focus that we would have today.
But I also believe that the things that we're trying to do to take 2016's environment and making the most out of it is probably the most important agenda at hand.
I think getting through this year being able to keep our oil volumes flat on a divestiture-adjusted basis the only reduction we see in volumes coming through gas properties that we're not investing in this market those are the things I think we will do this year while preserving the balance sheet and looking at it as a key objective for improving the quality where we can.
Because I made the comment earlier and I reaffirm it here I think we believe we can maintain net debt at a level that it's at today if not reduce it further while still meeting the capital objectives that I laid out this morning.
I appreciate you answering the question.
Thanks Al.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys and impressive cuts here.
A follow-up on the monetization program the $1 billion that you referenced I mean are those producing assets? And could you provide any color on the asset market and your confidence and ability to execute in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me just say at March 1 we'll go into a lot more detail but let me  because since all of that reports into Bob let me defer to him on that one.
I think without going into detail some of the assets that we are looking to monetize in the near term are producing assets.
Some of them are not.
And it'll take greater shape as we announce them either at March 1 or between now and March 1.
I think it's fair to say that these assets generally share the characteristic of our asset sales in the past and that is that they have sound economics but not economics that rise to the point that they would get funded relative to our other portfolio opportunities over virtually any commodity cycle.
And so much like the assets that we sold last year and monetizing $2 billion they're not things that are going to be material to the company's future the company's growth or they may not be of a size that's material to a company of our scale and our expectations for the future.
So we've got a long list of them but as Al mentioned there are some that are near-term higher probability that we feel very comfortable in executing and when added to our discretionary cash flow would exceed the $2.8 billion number that we talked about today.
That's great.
But could you also provide some color on your DUC completion strategy assumed in this flattish production profile on a significantly lower CapEx? And are those assumed deferred like your drilling program or is there any change there as you think about 2016? Evan this is Darrell.
Yeah.
As we look at our iDUCs obviously reduced capital is going to impact that some.
And as Al spoke later I mean we looked at this from a portfolio standpoint.
And I think as we look at the iDUCs we fully anticipate we will not get through the existing iDUCs that we have in 2016 which really sets us up great for 2017.
So again we'll talk a little bit more about it in the March call but I think it's  this is going to benefit 2017 but no we will not get through our complete iDUC inventory.
Let me see if I could just slip just one last one in here.
I mean you guys have correctly been more cautious on the commodity outlook since early 2015.
And given your production resiliency and ability to do significantly more with less and similar trends in the U.S.
I mean are you preparing for a down cycle that can last well into 2017? Or can you share any of your macro outlooks at least in regard to how you're setting up the company right now? Well if I can take a minute and I'll play Al and look through the looking glass.
Yes we do think the current environment that we're in will probably be protracted.
We have concerns of events here that really are well beyond our control.
And consequently until we see events stabilize and we see oil prices in particular take on a new supply-demand dynamic than it's currently in the market or anticipated in the near future we will continue to be a very cautious investor in this environment.
And you're right.
You go back to this call a year ago I think we were very concerned that this was going to be much longer in its recovery period than it tends to but at that time people tended to think might be the case.
And we also go back to prior periods in history when some of us have been around the oil and gas business a long time.
Typically when you go into a down cycle you come out of a down cycle with a pretty good price increase.
We are a little concerned that this time there is one dynamic we've never had previously and that is shale response and a short-cycle investment to a rising price environment has not been in the equation previously and that will probably add to greater volatility in the coming years than we have certainly seen in the last five and I would even say in the last 30.
We've just not seen shale in its short-term inventory and its ability to respond to prices in the same way we do now.
Now I'm not trying to paint a picture that looks like North American natural gas because here we've got 94 million barrels a day of demand being maybe oversupplied 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day.
That's a very different environment than natural gas in North America and so it could correct itself.
But as prices move up and the intersection of supply and demand improves prices over time it'll largely come from a supply contraction in the near term not from a demand response.
I think all of us and I think most importantly most economists have been very surprised at the very limited demand response we've seen by lower petroleum product prices around the world.
So it's for those reasons that I think we're taking again this year and into 2017 a very cautious approach.
Appreciate your thoughts.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Our next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
These are probably two longer-term questions.
Just in the Gulf of Mexico obviously Shenandoah I think you still got one more well you want to drill there.
People are still saying look we're waiting and seeing to see how low things like facilities costs can go.
But I'd appreciate any update in terms of the prices you think would be required to get something like a Shenandoah or say a Yeti over the line.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me take part of that.
Today we are not drilling with a view that we would develop Shenandoah in a $30 price environment.
So I think you can probably frame the issues is that as we've appraised and Bob can  is going to walk you through kind of where we see the next step in appraisal here taking a final investment decision or a sanctioning here is not something that will happen in 2016 and if prices when we do  when we are looking at the commerciality of this particular development will be considered as the part of how we think about investing the capital under development.
So the two are very separate.
So I think I'd like Bob to talk to you a little bit about what we're seeing from the appraisal perspective but I think if you're concerned about us taking a sanctioning or final investment decision in a $30 price environment for Shenandoah I can put that one to bed pretty quickly.
Yeah.
This is Bob.
So we just finished the Shenandoah-4 appraisal well located off to the west of our previous activities.
We found over 620 feet of high-quality oil pay in that well.
We're very pleased with it.
We also were able to get about 550 feet of core.
That's important for planning what that development could look like.
So that's going to be analyzed turned over to the reservoir engineers as they put together a scenario for how we might develop that.
At the same time we're looking at drilling Shenandoah-5.
We think that's a well that's required.
It's off to the east.
It'd be kind of between Shenandoah-3 and the original Shenandoah-1 up-dip of Shenandoah-3 which was wet well but encountered very very good sands kind of gave us a down-dip limit on the eastern side.
So that well should spud here in this first quarter.
We have high expectations for it but we need to drill the well and see.
That's what appraisal's all about.
Meanwhile the guys are taking all the information that we obtained from this rolling it into conceptual planning as to what resources we may be able to recover how much it might cost those type of things.
And as Al said we're long ways from sanction at this point.
If Shenandoah-5 is successful we may move even farther to the east with a Shenandoah-6 but of course that will be all dependent on what happens at Shenandoah-5.
Yeti we're pretty much done at Yeti with the assessment of it.
We drilled the initial well had success there in the Middle Miocene.
Good oil pay good reservoirs.
We went down-dip with a sidetrack and encountered the water so that we got a good handle on where the oil-water contact would be.
So we got a fairly good limit on that side of it.
We then drilled the Yeti-3 well which was really an exploratory well with a down-dip tail to get some information on Yeti but we didn't think it was going to be particularly good well from a hydrocarbon prospectivity in the original Yeti discovery.
The upper zone that we were targeting had very good sands but it was wet.
But we were then able to go down to the Middle Miocene get a core across that interval.
So again get the information that's needed for the teams to put together their development plan.
This is going to be a very nice tieback into one of the existing nearby infrastructures and so the folks are working on that.
But again they've got a lot of work to do.
And then the commodity prices have to cooperate along with service costs to make sure that that's economically viable project when we do decide to move forward with it.
Thanks.
My second FID-related question is around Mozambique.
I mean it feels like you guys have been doing a lot of work and making a lot of progress.
I mean maybe just a run-through of what I's need to be crossed and T's dotted or the other way around to be ready to move forward with our projects subject to markets.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm going to ask Mitch Ingram if he wouldn't mind to kind of maybe give you an overview of where we are.
But I think similar comment that I made as it relates to Shenandoah would be appropriate for Mozambique and that we've got a lot of things that we and our partners and the government need to work on.
And with that Mitch if you would just give them a little bit of an overview.
Okay.
So we continue to make progress with this project.
At the end of last year we reached agreement with the government on a number of important issues to drive value certainty.
And in 2016 we hope to conclude our negotiations with the government on the key agreements together known as legal and contractual framework.
And we hope to make further progress with the customers and financiers who underpin the project.
To make the decision on FID all three elements are combined and these are linked which will then provide a certainty through project and allow us to realize significant value.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Ed.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Socit Gnrale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Two quick ones.
Al you talked about innovative financing regarding the monetizations.
Can you be more specific? What's innovative? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've done some things in the past John that were a little bit different than others by the drill to earn things that we achieved both onshore initially in the Marcellus and later in the Eagleford and then we took it into the deepwater and then into Mozambique.
One of the things I take a lot of comfort in as well as a lot of pride that Bob Gwin and our financial organization do a lot of things I think that are leading edge and I think we will find some innovative different ways to approach the way in which we look at funding our capital needs.
That's not to imply that we're going to get out ahead of things with stuff but rather to be innovative.
And I've always believed that one of the competing differentiators for Anadarko has been our abilities to be ahead of the curve on finance.
And Bob you're welcome to weigh in with any comments you'd like in addition.
No I don't have anything else.
Okay.
That's fine.
Next one from me you said Al that we're going to be in a world with greater product price volatility shorter cycles et cetera.
Does this mean going forward that you may contemplate reducing the long-cycle business or perhaps taking more of a consortia approach going forward for things like deepwater plays? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would say in the near term John our focus on tiebacks could be part of that answer.
I think greenfield project development unless we have a substantial estimated ultimate recovery from some of our exploration activities do make it a little more challenging.
One of the things I think we've done a good job of is we've developed various things as being able to fund the market to take the development component of our finding and development costs.
Whether that market is always there will be a function of the economics.
I think as we come out of the cycle and we certainly at some point will and to what extent we'll find out.
I think in the near term as we come out of the cycle we will move back to a higher weighting in our short-cycle inventory and move the weighting that we've moved the last couple of years into intermediate and longer-cycle investing and shift that back to short.
That in part will have something to do with what we believe will be attractive rates of return we can get from our short-cycle investing.
So the two of those would be taken together but the volatility is something I think we as people who have to look at this every day is going to be a lot different the next 5 years maybe 10 years than it certainly has been in the last 5 years or 10 years.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could ask one can you talk a little bit about the utilization of your rigs over the next couple of years? You've got a number rigs under contract.
You're obviously still drilling on  doing appraisal work at Shenandoah.
Can you talk about how you might use the rigs in terms of appraisal versus exploration over the next 12 months to 18 months? Hey Ryan.
This is Jim.
And our rigs the five we have under contract right now one is in Cte d'Ivoire running an exploration program.
We anticipate that rig to stay in CI and then return back to Colombia to follow up on some exploration/appraisal activity.
The other four rigs are in the Gulf of Mexico and they have various expiration date terms.
And so what we'll do is utilize those rigs through contract on various appraisals and tieback opportunities that we talked about earlier.
And some of those are the Heidelberg field drill-out that we've continued to see positive results in and of course had early first production on.
And then in K2 infill well opportunities which are another example of short-cycle tieback opportunities like Caesar/Tonga.
So we'll keep the rigs busy there as well as additional drilling in Lucius as we see expansion opportunities there and potentially Phase 2 expansion in Caesar/Tonga for additional reserve developments.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then maybe if I could ask on the dividend I mean how do you think about the dividend and its place in your cash spend in a constrained capital environment? This is Bob.
I mean the dividend it is costing us about $550 million a year currently.
Obviously there are other things we could do with that cash in the current environment yielding say 3% with the movement in the stock price.
That's a bit higher than we would normally target for the dividend.
Though we've got a board meeting next week and obviously the decisions around the dividend are solely theirs.
We'll be talking to them about the overall financial picture and the cash flows during the year and we'll see as we come out of that where we are relative to the appropriate level of dividend.
I certainly do not expect us to eliminate the dividend.
That's a question we've gotten in the past.
I don't think that's an appropriate step but the current yield is certainly higher than we would have targeted in a much higher stock price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning to everyone.
I was wondering if you could  perhaps Bob could give us a narrative of what you've learned and seen at Colombia over the last  the Calasu well over the last few months? And if what you saw with that well particularly with your modeling of the basin and perhaps if you learned anything on the geochemistry side? Yeah Charles.
This is Bob.
I talked about the Kronos well on our last call where we found 130 feet to 230 feet of gas pay that looked to be biodegraded thermogenic oil based on the geochemistry.
Everything that we've done on the geochemical side is holding up with that type of an interpretation.
The Kronos well was not as  didn't have as well developed sands as maybe we would've hoped although the objective section does look like it blooms out to the north in a much better area and we'll be testing that this year.
As you move 100 miles to the north of Calasu we're moving closer to what we looked at the depot center which is a Magdalena fan system.
We're very peripheral to it at Kronos but in the Calasu we're getting into a much more proximal portion of it.
We saw excellent sand development at Calasu.
We had about 17 meters of gas pay in one of the sands.
We're working the geochemistry on it to see.
As we went deeper in the well we seem to be getting evidence of heavier components but we didn't have any significant accumulation to speak of as we went further down.
And the temperature data seem to confirm our interpretation as we move from Kronos up towards Calasu.
The overall basin gets warmer but it's still a very cool basin.
So that still speaks to the most likely generative pays being oil in the areas that we're looking.
So we're encouraged by what we've seen.
We've learned an awful lot.
We're now stepping back and deciding what it means to us in the Grand Fuerte area.
At the same time we acquired a big 3D up in the COL area last year and we're doing Phase 2 this year.
And what we're seeing up there is really exciting and has also  given the ties that we have from the previous two wells when we take that up into the COL area it gets us very excited about the prospectivity of the COL area.
And so Colombia has got a lot more to do.
We got a lot of good data and so we're rolling that in.
We're over at Paon right now.
We're got quite a bit of activity at Paon.
It's going to take us into the second half of the year.
But when we're done there the rig will come back into Colombia and drill what we call our Purple Angel well which will be testing the Fuerte area and probably the Kronos appraisal is really what it's targeted but it's got some exploratory components to it.
Got it.
And that would be late 2016 it sounds like? Yeah.
I think it's definitely second half of 2016.
It kind of depends on how good we do at Paon with the DSTs and that kind of activities.
Got it.
Thank you for that detail Bob.
That adds a lot.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome Charles.
Al if I could go back this is  I think a couple of people tried to take a crack at this already but I'd like to take one more shot.
I was struck by one of the  some of the word choice in your quote in the press release specifically said in 2016 greater market dislocation appears likely.
Can you elaborate on what dislocation is? My first instinct is that you're talking about commodity prices but as I looked at it the second time I thought maybe you could be talking about the dislocation between service costs and the commodity price or some other thing.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think it's more the latter.
To help you just a little bit there I mean if you go back and think about what it takes I mean we're not really in the revenue business; we're in the margin business.
And so in this price environment we have a dislocation between what it costs to either operate or drill wells versus the commodities that are being provided by the markets.
So that dislocation we believe is going to continue.
We don't find the margins that we're seeing today to be attractive for the reasons I've talked about this morning.
And I think indicative of how we've over time done things our ability with a substantially reduced capital plan 50% down from last year 70% down from 2014 being able to maintain oil volumes flat year-over-year on a divestiture-adjusted basis speaks to the quality of a portfolio that has a good mix of conventional and unconventional resources to lean on.
But that market dislocation certainly gives us a pause for doing more than the capital spending that we've talked about for the year.
That's helpful Al.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
The next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
If I could just maybe focus my questions on where do you think the market needs to be to think about spending more capital.
And one of the things you didn't highlight but I noticed on your updated investor presentation is that the Wattenberg economics looks pretty compelling.
I mean iDUCs at $25 a barrel and new drills at $30 a barrel.
But what price do you need to see in the market sustainable to start thinking about accelerating activity? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as I've tried as best I can which maybe isn't exactly to the question we really can't answer that generically and every asset today has different types of breakevens every asset has a little bit different characteristics.
If you think about our DJ Basin position with a mineral interest underlying it there versus say the Delaware Basin where we see ourselves in a very attractive yield stream associated with the hydrocarbons being produced there we can't just pinpoint a number for you as easily as it probably sounds like we should be able to.
I think if you think back to a year ago when we were at much higher price and we were having hesitation then we have seen our efficiencies improve.
We've seen some costs continue to come down.
I think you saw that most recently in the fourth quarter.
And I think we'll continue to find improvements around efficiencies.
And again we're in the margin business; we're not the revenue business.
So it really is when our margins return to a level that gives us a wellhead margin that creates an acceptable rate of return asset by asset that we'll see ourselves going back into our various portfolio opportunities with capital.
Until then we're going to stay at value preservation mode.
Okay.
Thanks.
Understood.
And you made a comment that maintenance capital is about two-thirds of what it was last year.
Could you provide some color and context around that? In addition I think in prior calls you had mentioned your base declines around 18% or so.
Where does that stand as you look into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we've done some work on this and I'm going to ask John if he could just to give you a little bit of additional information.
But a lot of this we anticipate  well we don't just anticipate; we will go into greater detail on March 1.
But today the number that we think of this maintenance CapEx to keep volumes flat is about $1.8 billion which is down substantially from prior years and I think very very reflective of the outstanding work our employees have been able to achieve by reducing that breakeven.
Yeah Scott.
I think that kind of goes along with what we're just talking  what your comments were on Wattenberg.
I mean having those type of breakevens having the flexibility we have there with the 120 iDUCs that we built up again to Darrell's point it doesn't appear we'll utilize them all this year but all that contributes and especially taking into account what Jim Kleckner and his guys are doing in the Gulf of Mexico with the tiebacks.
I don't have to  I'm not spending this money this year to get Heidelberg.
We already spent most of the money to get the volumes from the TEN complex.
Having a full year of Lucius that's outperforming expectations all that blends in to a much lower capital requirement to keep our volumes flat year-to-year.
And to Al's comment in his opening remarks we expect to be down on a divestiture-adjusted basis plus or minus 1% to 4%.
So it kind of says even then that we're not spending even to the level to keep volumes flat.
So I think having the flexibility to still focus on our longer-dated assets and keep the sustainability portion of the portfolio going is a pretty special thing and I'm pretty proud of what we've been able to do.
Thanks.
I appreciate the color guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question is from Bob Morris of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sorry.
My question was already answered.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Sorry.
And the next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I guess big...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
Hi.
The big story of the quarter was the Apache story which obviously had a big impact on your stock price.
Could you just look back on that and address it again for us? I assume that you feel that the market perception of what happened there was erroneous and I just wondered if with the benefit of hindsight you could add any color.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Paul I think you can fully appreciate.
I think we said all we wanted to say and could say in early November in that press release.
I think some of the market activity in our sector had to do with a lot of factors and we were certainly a part of that but those were external and separate and apart from the event you're making reference to.
So I know you're looking for additional comments from me but I think we made all the comments we intend to make in that press release.
Understood.
If we could totally change subject how do you think about hedging now? Would you be more likely to hedge at a lower price higher than here but at a lower level than you previously would have been? Or are you more likely to simply allow the price to rally and take what the market gives you? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well at $30 and $2 just to use big round numbers I don't think any company has got a motivation to hedge until it's probably a negative cost of replacement.
So I'm not sure we or anybody else would find ourselves motivated to lock in prices that are lower than the marginal cost in order to develop.
Yeah understand that.
At this level what I'm saying is would you be more inclined to hedge let's say at $40 or $45 where previously we would have talked about $60? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It comes back to what kind of margin would give us a wellhead.
If we're finding ourselves with an attractive wellhead margin that we want to be able to somewhat lock in for a short to intermediate period of time that would be something that we would find worth spending some time on.
Typically in the past we've tried to approach every period.
We're taking about half of the hydrocarbon price risk off the table whether it's natural gas or oil.
That philosophical view hasn't changed but it really comes back to seeing something in the market that gives us that wellhead margin that's attractive to be able to use the derivatives to help us protect the price movements from.
Understood.
Thank you.
And then finally from me it's been put to me that the price of oil as you mentioned is so low right now that actually completing DUCs is not economic.
Is that fair? And I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think in our case what we see is it's really from a capital allocation perspective.
The reason that Darrell is talking about the inventory of DUCs from the beginning year to the end of the year is more reflective of our Heidelberg and TEN longer-term projects coming into production coupled with the tieback opportunities that we see in the Gulf of Mexico actually having better rates of return.
Again that's just the ability to have a conventional and unconventional mix of resources allows us not to have to lean on assets in an environment that only do well in a short-cycle environment.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question is from David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Al and Bob kind of curious about your discussions with your investment-grade bondholders and how they see the rating agencies' potential moves impacting their ability to hot hold downgraded their non-investment grade debt in their portfolios.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Bob is much more capable of responding to your question than I am.
I just want to say thank you.
I noticed this morning you upgraded us and that's appreciated.
Bob? Thanks Al.
David obviously we talk to those bondholders.
I'm not in a position to comment on things they might've said about their ability or willingness to continue to hold the bonds.
I think they need to  those conversations are best held with the individuals.
I will say that certain of them that I've spoken to are concerned about some of the approaches that Moody's in particular might take relative to their historic methodology.
Conversations that they've held that caused them to believe that perhaps what traditionally were just subcomponents of Moody's methodology become overriding factors that there's a political dynamic at work that is not necessarily linear relative to the last several years of an approach that we can all rely upon and that certainly appears to be affecting bondholders' comfort with the current situation.
I don't believe that same dynamic exists with the views of how S&amp;P is taking what I would call more of a traditional measured response to the commodity price environment.
But those are all anecdotal types of things that we don't know that they come to pass but they're the types of things that quite frankly I think our fixed income holders are concerned about and appropriately so.
And then all we can really do in that type of an environment is manage as responsibly as we can continue to do what we've done historically focusing on the quality of the asset the asset coverage.
Obviously cash flows are impacted in the current environment and that is a temporary dislocation even if it exists longer than a year.
And we've tried to and are continuing to manage the portfolio on what we believe is a long-term responsible basis to provide stability as an investment-grade company to those fixed income investors that have relied upon the way that we have traditionally managed the business and the way the rating agencies have traditionally established their parameters.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And David as you can tell Bob has no energy around that topic at all.
None at all.
No we've heard the same kind of institutional disruption particularly tied to Moody's so that's helpful perspective.
And then I know this is a sensitive topic but your focus on the margins and the current price that the market's providing I mean how long at this activity level do you maintain current staffing levels? And how do you think about the cycle of building the company up and then where you are now versus kind of where your current G&amp;A is? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you can probably appreciate in what we believe is a protracted commodity environment not only for this year but for the coming years that we and I think every other company in our industry will take this opportunity to look at the environment sync up its capital plans its activity with its workforce needs and I don't think we're going to be any different than anyone else as we go through this period of unfortunate as I said earlier in response to another question market dislocation.
Okay.
That's what I thought.
And then just very detailed I guess what oil volumes do you add at Heidelberg and TEN? I just want to get the numbers that you're expecting.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David if you don't mind I mean we've got  you're going to take away all of the stuff we get to talk about in March if we answer your question.
We'll go into a lot of detail in March 1.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Brian.
Wanted to ask on the minerals interest and your royalty interest in Land Grant.
Wanted to see if there's any change to how you're thinking about that strategically and your willingness to monetize that in any way in the context of creative monetization opportunities.
Hey Brian.
It's Bob.
No no change to our messaging over the last couple of quarters in this kind of a commodity price environment and we actually have I think put out some numbers on what the royalty income looked like in this past year.
It's obviously down pretty sharply year-over-year.
It's highly correlated to prices.
It's not the type of environment where we would seek to monetize the royalties around oil and gas.
I will point out though that an exception to that rule is our hard minerals royalties.
We own the largest natural soda ash reserves in the world and we have a fairly nice income stream around those assets that gives us  where we have some flexibility and that market in particular in contrast to our fossil fuel commodity prices that market looks pretty good in today's environment.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I'll just say in response to a question I guess John Herrlin asked earlier I do think Bob Gwin and Al Richey have worked in a very innovative way in their approach to how they'd be monetizing those assets in the near future.
Great.
Great thanks.
And then just wanted to ask a follow-up question on the drilled uncompleted inventory.
You mentioned you may not complete all of that this year.
Can you be a little bit more specific on what you do expect to complete this year as part of the $2.8 billion budget? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If I can I know Darrell would love to answer your question.
But if we answer your question.
I'm going to go back to what I said to David.
We're not going to have anything to talk you about on March 1.
I think the other thing is you have to appreciate that's all rolled into the capital plan which we're going to recommend to our board.
And until we have that plan approved by our board to get out in front of them would be sort of inappropriate.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and just to share my appreciation on all the macro commentary that you've made today.
First question I wanted to ask is will you have any potential take-or-pay issues within the Wattenberg in 2016? We recently saw a deal where an operator transferred pipeline obligations from the Wattenberg to the Delaware Basin and some of the DJ pipeline operators have been hurt by declining volumes.
Sir this is Scott Moore of Marketing.
So we maintain a flexible portfolio out of the DJ between our realm of (52:06) pipeline commitments and we feel comfortable in our ability to keep them fully utilized.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
And you mentioned in the Ops Report some confidence that the Delaware Basin recovery will  estimates will increase over time.
I was just wondering this may be a March 1 rejection but can you add some color on what needs to take place to realize your expectations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
We'll let Darrell answer that one.
No we addressed this last quarter but as we continue to do look-backs we'll touch on this again March 1.
But as we continue to do look-backs our EURs continue to climb.
And so we're getting a lot of confidence that not only over a small area but the greater 230 million acres  or 1 000 acres that the EURs are only climbing.
So we still have a lot of work to do as we go into the next year in terms of looking at all the different horizons not only Wolfcamp A and but Bone Springs 2 and 3.
But at this point we're nothing but encouraged.
Inc.</span></strong> So if I try to paraphrase that briefly it sounds like the core is expanding.
Yes it is.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thank you.
I think that would be a fair assessment.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Our next question is from Harry Mateer of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I guess first just returning to the credit ratings questions earlier.
I know there's concern about the agency methodologies which you guys don't control but you're not only bystanders at the same time.
So I guess what I'm looking for is what do you prepare to do to protect those ratings? Are you prepared to raise capital if that's what the agencies need to see? Where do investment-grade ratings stand on a priority scale for you? What was the end of the question Harry? Where do the what? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Where do the ratings sit on a priority scale for you overall? Oh yeah.
The ratings are a very high priority for us.
And we've said on several occasions that maintaining investment-grade ratings are important to us and very central to the way we want to operate our business models as an international exploration company as a company that is leading a project selling LNG volumes around the world et cetera.
So it's very important to us.
Certainly we've got a lot of flexibility in our opinion before we would need to raise capital in order to address concerns.
I think one of the issues is are the concerns reasonable and are they addressable by simple knobs that one could turn? We talked about the dividend earlier.
We've talked about asset sales.
We mentioned north of $1 billion in the near term that would more than fund  in addition to our discretionary cash flow would more than fund the $2.8 billion budget.
We've got a list of assets beyond that that we're actively working and would expect to be able to execute during 2016.
Things that when Al talks about our net debt staying flat or reducing the big variable in reducing leverage there is execution against the asset sales.
And if for some reason we needed to continue to reduce net debt and weren't able to execute on asset sales then you continue to work down your list of items that become a little more distasteful the further down the list you go but are the types of things we would have to consider whether or not to pursue relative to where the rating agencies  where the ratings from all three agencies are and whether steps are defined by those agencies that they'd like to see if indeed they take action.
So it is  you're right.
We're far more than bystanders.
We're actively engaged in addressing this all very proactively but we also want to make sure that we're doing things that are responsible relative to the true underlying risk and not  and that true underlying risk isn't always captured in a particular agency's view of an action that they may take at a point in time.
So we're just trying to take it all in balance and be responsible and iterative in our approach.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I've answered this question as well as Bob in a lot of other settings and I think that the variables that we have that are most controllable for the management team here are reducing the capital plan which as of today you can see our motivation there by reducing our capital plan year-over-year 50% 70% lower than it was in 2014.
Also looking at continuing to do asset sales and monetizations which we have our long and very successful track record of doing.
And as the question was asked earlier and I think Bob appropriately replied as we look at the yield associated with our common stock at 3% that's historically high for us.
So we look forward to discussing that with our board and I believe those are the most important variables in the near term that we can address.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then I guess on the upcoming maturity you mentioned your plans to refinance it.
But it looks like you're planning to spend or seeking approval to spend more than the $1.8 billion you indicated as maintenance capital.
So I guess my question is why not pull back on spending even more and then use asset sale proceeds or other sources of cash to pay down that maturity and actually delever instead of just looking to refinance it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean there's a lot of things that will go into March 1 that probably today would feel a little hollow in terms of my response just because I'm not prepared today to go into detail around things we've not sought board approval for and I think it's just appropriate that we wait and have that conversation with our board first.
But our business is as we see it today philosophically is about preservation and we do think there are things that we can invest in intermediate and long cycle that in fact do just that.
But I think at $2.8 billion with a $1.8 billion maintenance number our ability in this environment to hold oil volumes flat year-over-year on a divestiture-adjusted basis and our only decline in actual volume coming from gas properties that we're not investing in is a pretty good indication of what we feel like is the way in which we want to manage through a very difficult and challenging period and yet have it be capital-responsive to the environment that the hydrocarbon prices are giving us.
If you allow yourself to continue to go completely into hibernation and things come out at some point from the cycle and you're not prepared to then take advantage of what you can do then we've somewhat allowed ourselves to not maximize our equity return for the costs associated with the credit profile.
And I think Bob addressed beautifully exactly what we feel like we want to do in order to maintain the highest credit quality as possible at the same time not stall out our equity story.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Al Walker for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you.
And I think today you saw as evidence that our management team is committed to a much lower capital spend than I think practically anyone anticipated.
I think also you've heard from us today we'll go into greater detail on March 1 about how we get to that $1.8 billion of maintenance CapEx.
I've talked repeatedly about our  what we believe is a very attractive year-over-year sales volume that we're able to achieve and only declines coming from natural gas properties that we're not investing in.
I also made a comment or two and I'll just highlight it again we have extremely good line of sight today for monetizations in excess of $1 billion which we hope to be announcing between here and our March 1 conference call.
We think that would and should address a lot of the concerns and questions that have been posed to us about how we intend to fund our activities in 2016.
And I think one of the things that has probably been lost in the scheme of just exactly who we are and what we are but I've tried I think almost every call to emphasize it we are a mix of conventional and unconventional resources.
And in 2016 you're seeing the benefit of conventional assets coming into the production profile and that's a very different opportunity set than a lot of other companies have.
I think that nice cocktail of mix between conventional and unconventional will continue to resonate.
I think you'll see it in the way in which our performance plays out through the year.
And I do think and I know a lot of companies talk about this I'm going to say it again we have an exceptional culture with great employees and a tremendous track record of achieving what we established for the year as what we think we can achieve and want to achieve and typically go beyond that.
So I don't think 2016 will be any different than that.
It's definitely going to be a tough year but the opportunities we have I think are quite significant.
And I also think the way in which we manage our capital we manage our business and we have a culture that can succeed in any environment will be quite important as we get through this year and the years to come after this.
So I appreciate the support we've seen from a lot of investors through this very difficult period.
Those of you who that have hung in there with us we greatly appreciate it.
Those of you that are new to the investment we look forward to making sure that everybody feels that we're doing everything we possibly can.
And with that operator we will call it a day and look forward to talking to everybody on March 1.
Thank you The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.