Good day everyone and welcome to the Bank of America First Quarter Earnings Review.
[Operator Instructions] And it is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Stitt.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Chuck Noski begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
And these factors include among other things changes in economic conditions changes in interest rates competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses.
For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And also joining us this morning as he did last -- three months ago will be Neil Cotty our Chief Accounting Officer.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get started this morning I want to spend a couple of minutes on announcements that occurred this morning other than earnings.
Obviously we will cover in this call the announcement with the FSA/Assured on the monoline.
But on the leadership side I just wanted to talk through what we've done there.
Last year Chuck came to me and due to an illness of a close family member in California where he has lived it was going to be clear that he may not be able to move and we decided to continue to talk about the situation.
He had made a commitment to move at the end of the school year obviously because he has a daughter who’s at senior high school.
But with that it became clear as we moved through this quarter that Chuck could not move.
So I asked Chuck to take another leadership position that could help us work on some client matters matters in the mortgage company and help them transition to new CFO.
So what we announced this morning was to have Bruce Thompson take over for Chuck as CFO effective -- and that transition will be completed by the end of the second quarter.
And Chuck will continue as a great judge and perspective to help Bruce continue to learn the tasks.
Chuck has served as a CFO at a time when we had a tremendous transformation on our financials.
He's been a great partner and we're glad that we came up with something that worked for everybody.
Bruce many of you know he's been a Chief Risk Officer.
He's done a great job for us since last year doing that.
He manned our Capital Markets business for Tom and ran Leveraged Finance and many other things for the company over his 15-year career here.
As Chief Risk Officer he may assist through a difficult situation including as you'll see in some of the pages later a great reposition of the balance sheet.
In addition to those two changes we also announced that Gary Lynch will join us as Global Head Of Legal Compliance and Regulatory Relations.
My judgment was that we want to continue to add to the quality and capabilities of our management team.
As Gary became available his reputation in the Street in legal circles and regulators is well known.
He has also been the Head of Enforcement at the SEC.
And the relationships he has around the world he spent the last couple of years in London will help us outside the United States.
He'll join us when his garden leave expires later this year.
So with the management changes behind us let's shift to the quarterly results.
With that I'll start on Slide 4.
Rather than get into some of the detail on the page let me just give you the themes for this quarter which are similar to those relayed to you in early March.
The franchise that we've built over the last 230 years in this company continues to deliver and you can see that in the numbers and the statistics this morning.
Obviously the Mortgage business is still in need of continued repositioning and we continue to work on that.
But what you've seen is solid customer activity across the board.
Our focus on changing the strategy in the Consumer Deposits business has led to the first quarter of net checking account growth a return to profit in that business improved customer satisfaction across the board the best retention of customers in that business in many quarters.
In other areas we continue to grow our FA headcount.
We've had strong referrals in the businesses across to each other.
The deposit growth through the whole franchise has gone over $1 trillion in total deposits.
And as the economy has improved a bit we're starting to see some loan growth on a core basis in the Middle Market business with David Darnell.
And we'll touch on some of that later but the key theme is the franchise continues to deliver.
As you back up to the second point revenue rose from last quarter.
Expenses were flat on a gross basis to $20 billion including goodwill and I'll cover it a little later up $500 million more on the core business.
But the absolute levels are elevated and I'm just going to talk about what we're doing about that in a few minutes.
Overall earnings improved to $2 billion or $0.17 but we're still impacted by charges as we continue to pull out through the financial crisis.
We had $5 billion in charges this quarter we absorbed and we also had $3 billion between reserve releases and higher private equity to the good side.
When we talked to you at Investor Day we said we were shooting for pretax pre-provision profits as we normalized to $45 billion to $50 billion.
This quarter Chuck will walk you through the one-time items but if you adjust for those you'll get to a number of approximately $10 billion which is up from last quarter and I think puts us in a position that we can see clearly how we build a bridge to the $45 billion to $50 billion level as we normalize.
That normalization requires the interest rate environment to change more fundamentally to more normalized environment.
We've got to take the costs down across the board.
As the economy continues to plug away we'll continue to make progress in other revenue sources.
In addition one of the things we talked about at Investor Day was the need to continue to drive down the legacy assets and risk in the company.
During this quarter we took care of one of the monoline exposures.
We absorbed the home price fall-off and we also continued to have our loan portfolio run off across all categories of portfolio we identified for you a couple quarters go.
This quarter that portfolio ran down by about $6 billion excluding the government-matured loans which we show you in the Appendix.
The cost of that to the P&amp;L was about $1.9 billion pretax this quarter.
Again Tom and his team did a good job reducing legacy trading assets and we continue to make progress in that area.
When you look at the balance sheet we continue to position the balance sheet our reserves even after the release remains strong 4.3% to loans 1.63x trailing to charge-offs.
We made progress improving the capital ratios lowering our risk-weighted assets again growing liquidity and reducing long-term debt.
All those important metrics we identified for you a few months ago.
We also continue to move forward to take advantage of the opportunities we identified for you.
We have a great opportunity in this company in the Affluent and Mass Affluent segments and between Joe Price and Sallie Krawcheck and the team they continue to see good growth there.
We continue to have opportunities in our international capabilities and I'll describe the work we've done there over the last quarter.
And we continue to have opportunities in the business that will rebound as the economy continues to move forward in the Investment Management and Capital Markets areas and we had solid quarters there.
And again this quarter we continue to simplify the franchise.
This quarter we made progress.
We sold a European small business card portfolio.
We have Balboa under contract.
That will close late this quarter early next.
In addition we continue to reduce our private equity positions across the board and we continue to sell some other small pieces to continue to fine-tune this franchise.
When we get to the broader economy this quarter what we saw is that the customers' health continues to move forward.
Delinquencies were down across all portfolios consumer spending continued to increase this quarter over last in 2011 over 2010.
In March it increased 7% to give you an example about 1½% of that would have been gas price increases the rest is sort of fundamental customer purchases moving forward.
We see loan demand in select areas and loan stability across the board absent the runoff.
Our Affluent clients continue to take more risk in the market.
And we've seen growth in the area there and the capital markets remain robust.
So enough with that let's drop to Page 5 and get into some of the specific results for the quarter.
On Slide 5 you can see we can start with the capital ratios.
We told you at the conference our share return model requires us to focus on building our balance sheet with a strong reserve position driving optimization of risk-weighted asset position and building capital through 2011 2012 as we move from Basel I to Basel II to Basel 2.5 to Basel III.
This quarter reflects the continued progress.
The tangible common equity ratio increased to 6.1% above the level we believe that -- of the risk inherent to run the company.
The focus that we also shared with you is driving tangible book value per share.
We moved that to $13.21 this quarter as you can see in the upper right-hand corner of the slide.
Our regulatory cap ratios continue to improve.
We had a fairly sizable change in the DTA allowance period for regulatory capital treatment that caused a 27-basis points decline before we got the quarter started.
But even with that we still made progress.
The Tier 1 common ratio was up 4 basis points or 31 basis points not taking into account the adjustment.
And the Tier 1 was up 8 basis points gross.
On the lower right you can see we made progress by continuing to reduce RWA.
And as we've talked to you we had significant mitigation coming later in the year in Basel calculations after planned implementation of technology risk models and other risk management opportunities we've been working on for the last couple of years.
All this is critical in our ability to meet the Tier 1 Basel III common ratio goal of 8% at year end 2012 as if Basel III was fully implemented and to move forward on capital management later this year and next year.
Now let me go to Page 6 and then just step back and think about the progress first quarter of 2010 versus 2011 in the core balance sheet of this company.
As you can see on this page overall assets down 3% our RWA is down 6% our deposits are up 4% or $44 billion our long-term debt has been reduced $77 billion which is significant and has a significant benefit on our margin.
Importantly you can see our tangible common shareholders' equity is up $16 billion.
Our Tier 1 common equity's up $8 billion.
And you can see the rest of the statistics on this page.
So in a year's time frame we've been able to significantly lower the risk increase the capital and increase the statistics on reserve coverage while at the same time managing the customer franchise.
As we move to the businesses I just want to reflect quickly on those and then I'll let Chuck take you through the detail on the numbers.
On Slide 7 you can see the overall picture.
It's a pretty simple picture.
You can see all the businesses have moved back to profitably except our Mortgage business and we'll talk in some detail about that later on.
As you go on each of the businesses let's first take our Deposit businesses starting on Page 8.
The deposits team produced earnings this quarter of $355 million and that was versus a loss in the fourth quarter.
They had higher revenue and lower litigation expense compared to the fourth quarter.
Remember that in this business the fourth quarter was kind of the low point because the regulatory items affecting the Deposits business i.e.
the Reg E and overdraft are fully in this business.
Our Durbin charges will go into our Card segment later this year if it becomes effective.
The return on tangible equity for our Deposits business this quarter was 25% which is above the rate of our early rates obviously but we expect to go higher as the business continues to recover.
As deposit balances were up $5 billion or 4% annualized the cost of retail deposits both in this business and our Wealth Management business combined were down 4 basis points to 33 basis points.
Importantly new accounts reflect continued focus on quality relationships and retention.
As a matter of fact we're seeing the lowest attrition in accounts we've seen in three years or more.
In this quarter we saw the first net account growth based on the change in strategies that Joe Price and his team are accomplishing in five quarters.
Account closures are down and our customer focus continues to work.
Early results in our pilots to reposition our franchise based on all the regulatory changes in a customer-driven analysis are still in early rollout but exceeding our expectations.
In adding a preferred customer solutions group our Platinum Privileges offerings as we call it has worked well.
On the expense side the team is working.
Branches are down 200 over the last five quarters.
Our cost to deposits ratio that we showed you in early March went down from 264 basis points.
That’s all the cost of operating a franchise over the deposits to 250 which shows continued growth.
Our active online accounts exceeded 30 million a record for this company.
Our mobile users are up 55% first quarter '10 to first quarter '11 to 6.8 million mobile users.
As we’ve switched to Card Services that business earned $1.7 billion in the quarter on improved credit quality.
Its revenue is down as the portfolio keeps repositioning as we continue to run down the book for the loans we don't want in that business and the lower yields did a seasonal decline in retail volume.
The unit did benefit by reserve release but the earnings are normalizing and we’ll see that happen over the next few quarters.
The retail volumes are down from the fourth quarter but as I said earlier customer usage of cards has gone up year-over-year by in the 5% 6% 7% range depending on the month.
Our net loss rates broke another level here as we filed below 8% for the first time in a while from the peak of nearly 14% on card losses in U.S.
credit card book.
New accounts in our U.S.
credit card book were up 26% in the fourth quarter in the highest level in six quarters.
In credit quality there's no origination that's very strong.
So as you think about our core Consumer businesses we returned to profit deposits and we ought to expect to keep driving that forward.
And our Card business continues to improve and both have upside as the interest rate environment and economy continues to stabilize.
We move to the next page Slide 9 in our Wealth Management businesses.
The Global Wealth Management team turned in $531 million after-tax up 69% from solid fourth quarter results but driven by an 8% increase in revenue and lower provision for credit cost.
Our pretax margin in this business showing the value of the innovative model across all the various products is reaching nearly 19%.
And the return on economic equity was 30%.
The growth in margin as I said is reflective of the loan deposits growth which grew 5% in the quarter.
And it demonstrates the customers who want to integrate their finances with us and that loan deposit growth led to NII growing 10% from the fourth quarter 2010.
Now many times people ask if that money is just money sitting on the sidelines.
But during this quarter we've also seen the activity related to the investment side of the house grow nicely.
Client balances grew 2% and that's on a $2 trillion base to give you a sense.
So it's $45 billion in growth in clients and the new product flows of about $14 billion in long-term assets under management were all good performance by this unit.
The growth in Financial Advisors continue to be steady 184 new Financial Advisors were added.
We continue to have record low attrition in our advisor forums.
And referrals by this unit which is sort of a Lynch Pandora referral strategy continue to be strong and remain healthy with the other businesses.
On Slide 9 we moved to one of the -- at the bottom of Slide 9 we talk about one of the core businesses we had which is Middle Market Small Business Lending which turned in another quarter of $923 million of earnings.
They're down slightly as they went from a release of provision to actually having provision this quarter.
The return on tangible equity in this business is 18% for this quarter.
Average C&amp;I balances were up 2% and that's concentrated in the middle market space.
It offsets declines in the Commercial Real Estate business and Dealer Financial Services business.
Average deposits also grew 2%.
The Asset Qualities businesses was very strong through the cycle and continues to improve.
One of the things that you often ask about that we saw here was that we saw revolver utilization of our companies move from 32% in the fourth quarter to 35% which shows the companies are using credit ever so slightly.
Remember that normalized to that level it’s probably in the mid-40s so we've got work to go ahead of us there still.
We move to Slide 10 move to our large corporate and capital markets and sales and trading team in Global Banking and Markets.
They earned $2.1 billion for the fourth quarter.
Returns on tangible capital of business were 28%.
The revenue was up 44% from the fourth quarter driven by increases in sales and trading a robust quarter investment banking and steady corporate banking revenue driven by treasury management growth of about 5%.
Corporate loans were up $3 billion for the quarter about 12% annualized driven by growth in our International Lending business.
Now one of the interesting things here is our international market share in some of our businesses is now stronger than our U.S.
market share which shows the effort the team has made to grow across the world with its global client.
In Equity Capital Markets advisory we actually had higher shares outside the U.S.
this quarter than we did inside the U.S.
which shows good progress on our international strategy.
And now we move to the business that we continue to have to do a lot of work on and that's our Consumer Real Estate Services business.
As you know we split this business in two parts to focus the executives in the business to concentrate on two pieces: Barbara Desoer and her team to concentrate on the Front End business; and Terry Laughlin and the team to concentrate on the Legacy Asset business and running down.
In the business the Legacy Asset business obviously had a significant loss.
And the go forward business had a slight profit and Chuck will talk you through that later.
Our production levels in mortgage banking fell to $56 billion but we maintained our market share.
To deal with the fall off we announced today and have been reducing headcount by approximately 3 500 people.
About 2 000 of those are contractors in that business and about 1 500 are teammates.
This is all in the good side of the house in Barbara's side of the business.
On the Legacy side we continue to plug resources to get through the backlog and modifications and foreclosures.
During the quarter we modified 64 000 loans bringing us to over 840 000 loans modified in the last few years.
On our Legacy side as you saw in our press release we settled the exposures one of them major monoline insurers and Chuck will cover that later.
Again and after the review the regulators conducted late last fall and our self-assessment we have made significant progress in implementing the changes and solution on short sales deeds in lieu and foreclosures and we'll complete about 70 000 of those in this quarter.
The cost of delay in foreclosures and assessments related to that is reflected in the P&amp;L this quarter as is increased servicing cost in our MSR valuation.
As we move to the subject of cost which is something we focused on you can see on Slide 12 that you can see that we’ve laid out for you sort of the fourth quarter and the first quarter in terms of the overall cost.
There was about $20 billion in reported cost but on a core basis we had about a $500 million increase from quarter-to-quarter.
We know that we need to do more on cost and we'll continue to work on those.
If you look at the base run rate's approximately $17 billion and this is the run rate we've been facing consistent with what Chuck told you at the Investor Day about a $70 billion number.
So we've been managing cost to try to run it flat as the incremental one-time costs continue to hit us on a given quarter.
But the way we're managing that has been managing headcount.
Overall headcount grew on a point-to-point basis from December 31 to March 31 about 0.3%.
That's 0.3% or 2 700 people across the 285 000 to 288 000 people.
With the Mortgage business and the Legacy side adding 2 700 people and the rest of the company going down by 2 000.
That 2 000 reduction is even with the investments we're making in small business bankers out in international capabilities financial advisers and many other areas.
Our efficiency ratio’s at 75%.
It’s down from 92% in the fourth quarter but that is not the progress we'd like to see.
We expect that to continue to recover as the legacy assets and some of the charges go down in the high 50s low 60s which is where we were earlier in 2010.
But we need to do more than show we can hold expenses flat or reduce them as revenue rises deliver the returns in this business in the company we need to do.
To do that as we told you at Investor Day we continue to finish off with all the integrations and that will give us the time the so-called peace dividend in the effort to continue to drive this company forward.
We told you we could get back to the 55% efficiency ratio.
We have launched an effort this week using outside teammates who’ve worked with other companies in a significant amount an internal team called New BAC which will continue to work to take all the work in this company examine it and see the work that doesn't add value to our customers or teammates and move it out of this company.
We'll work on this effort for the next several months.
It takes two phases and leads us all the way into 2012.
The first phase completes late this fall and we'll continue to implement immediately thereafter to get the expense savings and keep the run rate down as the revenue and the economy recovers.
With that general overview let me turn it over to Chuck to take you through and detail the quarter.
Chuck? Thanks Brian.
I appreciate your kind words and I'm looking forward to continuing to work with you and the senior management team in my new role as Vice Chairman.
I think Bruce will do a great job as the next Chief Financial Officer.
And also Gary Lynch who will be joining us later in the year will be a terrific addition to Bank of America.
As some of you may know I worked with Gary during the five years I served on the board of directors of Morgan Stanley.
And I found him to be a first-rate executive.
With that let's turn to the slides and begin on Slide 13.
For the quarter as Brian said we reported $2 billion of net income or $0.17 a share after preferred dividends.
There were several significant items during the quarter which are detailed on Slide 14.
Representations and warranties provision in the first half was $1 billion of which slightly more than half was associated with the GSEs and the remainder was related primarily to a recent experience with a monoline.
The provision related to the GSEs was driven by higher estimated repurchase rates along with the further deterioration in the home pricing index what we call HPI in the quarter.
If you recall when we announced our agreement with the GSEs earlier this year and adjusted the liability for future losses I noted that there could be further refinements from a number of factors.
A major factor in our estimate of the liability for future losses is the performance of HPI which declined this quarter and impacts the severity of losses in our reps and warranties liability.
The credit market unstructured liabilities under deferred value option resulted in a negative adjustment of $586 million reflecting a tightening of our credit spreads compared to a negative adjustment of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter and is reported in other income.
Equity investment gains during the quarter included a $1.1 billion gain from an investment in connection with the related IPO in the first quarter and reflected both the sale of shares as well as the fair value mark on the remaining shares we still hold.
We have $546 million in gains on the sale of securities during the quarter.
Trading-related income included a negative DVA impact of $357 million due to wider debt spreads.
Excluding fees paid to external legal service providers litigation expense this quarter was $940 million principally associated with mortgage-related matters.
During the quarter there were various mortgage assessments and waivers accrued for several areas of exposure driven by the foreclosure delays which totaled $874 million including $548 million for compensatory fees that we expect to be assessed by the GSEs as well as costs incurred during the foreclosure process that we do not expect to recover.
Also included in the first quarter as Brian mentioned was approximately $1 billion of expense related to retirement eligible stock-based compensation awards so-called FAS 123R that we have every year at this time.
And merger related and restructuring charges were $202 million.
Credit loss reserves were reduced by $2.2 billion in the quarter versus $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
The current period reserve number included $1.6 billion of reserve increases related to the purchase credit impaired portfolio.
One item not on this slide but which I want to highlight for you is our effective tax rate that this quarter was 26.3%.
At this time we would expect the rate for the rest of the year to be around 30% plus or minus unusual items like a charge for the U.K.
rate reductions expected later this year or more valuation allowance released benefits like we've seen during the last couple of years.
You may recall that we wrote down a portion of our deferred tax asset last year in the third quarter due to the 1% U.K.
tax rate reduction resulting in a charge after tax of nearly $400 million.
It looks like the U.K.
is considering two more 1% tax rate reductions which could impact the third quarter of this year.
So we are expecting a charge income tax expense of nearly $800 million upon enactment of those rate changes.
Because we would just be reducing deferred tax assets that are disallowed at the margin the $800 million charge would not affect our regulatory capital levels.
On Slide 15 you can see that average loans were down $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter while average deposits increased more than $15 billion.
Deposits remains a good story of growth as consumer balances grew Wealth Management clients continued to do more business with us and Commercial customers continued to prefer to hold rather than invest cash.
In line with our comments over the past few months ending long-term debt dropped $14 billion and we expect that decline to continue.
As you can see on Slide 16 loans at the end of the quarter excluding net charge-offs and run-off activity were up $2.9 billion.
Consumer loans were relatively flat.
Commercial loans x real estate were up $3.5 billion or 1.4% driven primarily by growth in Asia and EMEA.
And commercial real estate loans declined $2 billion or 4.1% as reductions in higher risk assets continue to offset new originations.
Let's turn to net interest income on Slide 17.
Net interest income on an FTE basis was $12.4 billion down $312 million from the fourth quarter.
The impact of lower hedge income lower consumer loan balances and yields and fewer days in the quarter were offset partially by a reduction in long-term debt and other items.
Our average earning assets for the quarter were down $14 billion mainly due to reduced customer financing activity in the repo area.
Average consumer loans were down as additional runoff in the Card and Home Equity portfolios more than offset retained mortgage originations.
Average commercial loans were relatively flat as decreases in real estate and U.S.
Commercial were partially offset by increases in both core loan and trade finance activity in our non-U.S.
Corporate Banking business reflecting our growing international footprint.
As we've said for the past few quarters we expect net interest income to be down again in the second quarter and anticipate stabilization in the second half of the year.
We are also on track to lower our long-term debt footprint by 15% to 20% by the end of 2011 relative to third quarter 2010 levels.
Turning to Slide 18.
Card revenue was down almost $300 million from the fourth quarter results due mainly to the seasonal decline in interchange.
Decreases in retail spending were 6% versus the prior quarter and versus the prior year reflected an increase of 6%.
Card revenue was down 7% from a year ago due to the impact of the CARD Act as the provisions became effective throughout 2010.
On Slide 19 we show service charges were flat with the fourth quarter but down 21% from a year ago due to overdraft policy changes which as you know were fully embedded in our results as of the fourth quarter of last year.
Let me say a couple of things that you should note before we move away from retail banking driven revenue.
Consumer spending is up account closures are down.
Quality sales remained strong deposits grew and employment levels are higher which all point to improving performance in our Retail businesses in future periods.
Mortgage banking income on Slide 20 improved by $2 billion from the fourth quarter as lower reps and warranties provision was partially offset by lower production volumes in margin as well as less favorable net MSR hedge results.
Production volume in first mortgage of $57 billion was down 33% in line with the drop in the overall market size from the fourth quarter while lock volumes were down 45%.
MSR performance net of hedges was negligible this quarter versus a positive $257 million last quarter.
The capitalization rate for the consumer mortgage MSR asset ended the quarter at 95 basis points versus 92 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Given the level of interest rates and our lower lock pipeline we forecast production levels will be lower over the near term.
Turning to Slide 21.
You can see the total reps and warranties provision in the quarter was $1 billion down from $4.1 billion from the prior quarter.
Much of the decrease was due to the impact of our agreements with the GSEs in the fourth quarter.
The $1 billion provision in the first quarter dealt principally with the GSEs and recent experience with the monoline.
On that note as Brian made reference to this morning we announced an agreement with Assured Guaranty to resolve all of the monolines outstanding and potential repurchase claims related to alleged reps and warranties breaches involving certain first- and second-lien residential mortgage-backed securitization trusts where Assured provided financial guaranty insurance.
The agreement covers combined original collateral exposure of approximately $35.8 billion with the combined principal at risk of approximately $10.9 billion.
The agreement includes a cash payment of approximately $1.1 billion to Assured as well as a loss sharing reinsurance arrangement that has a current estimated fair market value of approximately $500 million.
Approximately $1.1 billion of that was reserved for these potential repurchase claims at the end of December with the remaining liability recognized in the first quarter.
This settlement gets behind us a sizable piece of home equity exposure along with some first-lien exposure.
We currently estimate the upper end of the possible loss range related to non-GSEs to remain at around $7 billion to $10 billion over existing accruals.
Any reduction in our previously disclosed estimated range resulting from reserve accruals in this quarter were largely offset by the impact of HPI deterioration during the first quarter.
As a reminder this estimated range does not represent our estimate of a probable loss and is based on current assumptions that are necessarily subject to change.
The liability for reps and warranties ended the quarter at $6.2 billion compared to $5.4 billion in the prior quarter.
Our unresolved repurchase requests increased $2.9 billion to $13.6 billion due to an increase in submissions from the GSEs on both remaining countrywide originations not covered by the agreements we announced in January and legacy Bank of America originations.
Part of the increase was the result of lower submissions in the fourth quarter as we finalized the GSE agreements.
On Slide 22 we've outlined in more detail the organizational changes we announced in the last quarter for our former Home Loans and Insurance business.
And on Slide 23 we split out for you what we now call Consumer Real Estate Services into three pieces to provide a way to better understand the financial results and track our progress in those activities.
Home Loans and Insurance as you can see made $130 million this quarter and includes loan production activities.
Our servicing of current loans insurance operations and consumer real estate services home equity portfolio not included in the legacy asset servicing portfolio.
Insurance earnings drove the results given the low levels of customer mortgage application activity in the quarter and the cost we incurred to fulfill the outstanding pipeline left over from the fourth quarter's low rate environment.
Legacy Asset Servicing lost $2.5 billion and is responsible for servicing delinquent loans and managing the runoff and exposures related to selected residential mortgage home equity and discontinued product loan portfolios.
The LAS results represent the net cost of legacy exposures including reps and warranties provision litigation cost financial results of the home equity loan portfolios allocated to Legacy Asset Servicing and financial results of the Legacy Asset Servicing portfolio service for others.
The LAS portfolios include both current and delinquent loans that met standards defined for inclusion in Legacy Asset Servicing.
The other column is essentially the results of management of the MSR and includes the change in the value of the MSRs net of hedges.
We will continue to refine how we present this information going forward.
Okay now back to earnings on Slide 24.
Our activity with Wealth Management clients is producing revenue that achieved post merger highs which is where we generate the bulk of investment and brokerage revenues.
Investment in brokerage revenue was up $222 million or 8% from the fourth quarter due to higher market levels long-term assets under management and higher transactional activity.
Asset-managed fees were a record $1.5 billion up 6% from the fourth quarter and brokerage fees were also a record approximately $1.6 billion up 9% from the fourth quarter.
Total client balances including Merrill Edge grew $47 billion to $2.3 trillion during the quarter as a result of market activity and strong flows into long-term asset management products.
Sales and trading revenue on Slide 25 of $4.9 billion which includes both net interest income and noninterest income increased approximately 93% from the fourth quarter but was down around 30% from last year's record quarterly results.
FICC results more than doubled from the fourth quarter led by credit products and rates and currencies.
Equity revenue was up 60% to $1.2 billion from the fourth quarter driven by increases in all major lines of business.
An improved trading environment and client activity helped the Equity Derivatives businesses while increases in both the S&amp;P and Dow had a positive impact on the Cash Equity business.
Average VaR in the period increased 17% from the fourth quarter to $184 million versus a drop of 33% from a year ago.
Investment banking results in Slide 26 were relatively flat with the fourth quarter but compared to a year ago revenue increased 27%.
Our overall fee ranking remained at number two globally.
Results versus a year ago were driven by increases across all major product categories particularly M&amp;A and equities.
We were involved in numerous high-profile transactions during the quarter several of which were outside the U.S.
Turning to expense levels on Slide 27.
Total expenses excluding the goodwill impairment charge last quarter increased $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter.
As I discussed earlier $874 million of the increase was due to several areas of exposure driven by the foreclosure delays.
Personal expense compared to the fourth quarter is up approximately $1.4 billion reflecting again the impact of retirement eligible stock-based comp awards along with higher performance-based incentives in GBAM related to stronger results.
Higher levels of headcount and expense in consumer real estate services were related to default management staff and other loss mitigation activities in that business.
As we mentioned earlier our litigation costs of $940 million in the quarter dropped from $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter.
As we told you last month at our Investor Conference we expect our expense levels for 2011 to remain elevated as we work through these issues and continue to invest in the franchise.
Highlighting what Brian said earlier we have launched a comprehensive initiative focused on improving our financial performance by reducing expense levels and producing higher revenue.
Moving to asset quality trends on Slide 28.
As they did through most of last year delinquencies excluding government-ensured FHA loans net charge-offs criticized balances and nonperforming assets continued to improve.
On Slide 29 improving credit performance in most of our portfolios drove the decrease in net charge-offs.
Net charge-offs of $6 billion decreased $755 million compared to the fourth quarter.
Consumer net charge-offs were down $509 million reflecting improvement in most products.
Commercial asset quality also improved as net charge-offs dropped $246 million or 26% from the prior quarter with the biggest drivers being U.S.
C&amp;I including a legal settlement recovery and commercial real estate.
The increase in net charge-offs in non-U.S.
commercial was due to a couple large legacy credits.
And even with the decline in reserve levels the ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualize net charge-offs was essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter at roughly 1.6x.
And thinking about credit costs for the rest of 2011 we think provision expense should continue to edge down through the year as charge-offs continue to move lower primarily in the Consumer businesses.
We expect loan loss reserve reductions will continue as long as portfolio performance in the economy continue to improve and our other credit metrics warrant lower reserves.
Moving to Slide 30.
Our purchase credit-impaired consumer loan book which is comprised of discontinued real estate residential mortgages and home equity was $28 billion including the allowance.
We increased the reserve by $1.6 billion to reflect a more negative outlook for home prices.
Turning to Slide 31.
Let me add before closing that we recognize that there are a number of items in the quarter that make your analysis a bit time consuming.
From our view the positive underlying trends are improvements in credit capital deposits and progress on redesigning our franchise to best serve our customer base.
We believe the interest rate environment will remain challenging and don't expect the mortgage picture to improve significantly for several quarters.
However as you've heard at our Investment Conference we have articulated our strategy and we are executing against it.
So with that let's now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the side of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Maybe if we could just take a minute to expand a little bit you've just mentioned and you have it on Slide 27 that the program to increase revenues and take out cost to drive profitability.
And I think later on you said something about material benefits in the second half of '12 on the expense side.
Can we talk maybe a little bit about the largest contributors or the largest buckets that we'll see that expense savings over the two years? If you think about it think about two different things going on Glenn.
First the largest improvement you're going to see over the next 24 months will be as we crest over the -- go over the crest on this mortgage servicing side for the delinquent assets and start to take those costs out.
And likewise other places in the company those similar costs exists.
So that -- if you remember what we showed you is we showed you we had 70 000 human beings dedicated in the Mortgage business including the contractors 50 000 full time employees.
We've gone from about 5 000 to 8 000 people who service six days in out loans to a total of 30 000 over the last several quarters and again 2 500 2 600 again this quarter 2 700 this quarter.
So one of the things you'll see as we continue to get through the bubble of foreclosures as delinquency come down you really have a bodywork to get through.
We had to stop the foreclosure.
We restarted them.
As we get through that that will come down over the next several quarters.
But we're talking about -- we knew we're going to get that and so that we have identified that's why we isolated it and we'll get that out.
What we also need to do is just to continue to -- look we sold 19 or 20 different pieces of the company off.
We have built up a lot of stuff for businesses that’s no longer here.
We have built processing and stuff when the company was a different company.
We bought a lot of new enterprises.
Our Six Sigma capabilities that we had put in because we bought in over 100 000 different associates who were new to all that.
We had to step back and take a look at every aspect of work in the company work that doesn't benefit the customers or associates have to be taken out.
That process is a process many companies use and I've used it early in my career but the process is in two phases.
The first phase finishes late this fall; the second phase finishes early in the spring.
And so we'll begin implementing as soon as we have ideas.
That'll take a little longer as we go through.
That is not stopping us from also doing things like in the branch team that I talked about.
We are down 200 branches down 50 this quarter.
Round numbers the cost of deposits ratio that we showed you at Investor Day dropped 260 basis points which we think leads the industry by a lot.
That includes the FDIC expense the whole nine yards in there.
So as you think about we continue on the core assets we do on cost.
The other benefits will come through a little slower as the bad assets get better and the work gets done in the program.
So I very much appreciate that Brian.
On the Mortgage Servicing side it's a whole lot of people and I think we get that.
But in general I think we saw through JPMorgan's results and I'm expecting through others in general the cost of servicing mortgages is still going to the moon on a run rate basis.
Is that thought process included in your cost savings in the second half of '12? And does that have anything to do with the MSR where you mark the MSR? Yes in the valuations on MSR for the last couple of quarters has been a charge to increase servicing costs which decrease your cash flow Glenn and that's embedded in that valuation.
We're carrying 92 basis points or so which is a conservative value we believe but embedded in that in the performance in that last couple of quarters have been roughly $500 million each quarter $450 million or so each quarter for that.
And that we have to price through to the Street for lack of a better term because the increased amount of work you have to do to service the mortgage loan ultimately we have to get paid.
I appreciate that.
All right.
Last one on reps and warranties I think following the partial settlement of the GSEs I and others might have thought with $5 billion plus in reserves we might see a leveling off on the provision.
But another $1 billion with over half going to the GSEs I'm assuming that that's for the Fannie stuff that wasn't settled? And just curious on how you think about that as an annoying run rate that's with us for a few more quarters or you feel like what percent of the pipe are you through now on the GSEs? Chuck? Sure.
Glenn there's a couple dynamics going on here.
We saw a slowdown in new repurchase requests from the GSEs in the fourth quarter as you might imagine as they were going through the settlement process so there's been a bit of backlog that built up by them in the fourth quarter that I think we saw hit us in the first quarter.
They also seem to be devoting more time to submitting claims and less time to resolving claims which has tended to create a bit of an elevated level at the end of the first quarter.
So there's a bit of that going on.
A substantial portion though of that of the provision associated with the GSEs related to HPI deterioration which was kind of funny.
Most of that I should say most of the submissions who I've been referring to were Fannie rather than Freddie.
And in terms of where we are on the overall pipeline we said last quarter we were in 70 to 75.
I would say we're -- in terms of being all the way through with respect to GSEs my guess is we're probably at the high end of that range now.
And we'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
As we look at the mortgage related hits in the first quarter are there any estimates of what the impact will be from Wednesday's regulatory enforcement actions that were announced in terms of whether it's value in the MSR or just higher foreclosure cost? Think about that order as being announced on Wednesday but actually the work took place in October November December the assessments and the supervisor works we've implemented and that's why we've been adding people.
So the single point of contact the requirements on the signing of affidavits in the foreclosure process that's been embedded in our run rate as we've been building up.
And so that did impact in both the fourth quarter and the first quarter evaluation of the MSR because we already were getting ahead of this.
These are things that we identified in the work that we did in self-assessment and the regulators identified other improvement.
So the run rate aspect that will have some elements to it but a lot of it's in the system as we speak today.
Okay so outside of potential penalties for you and all the other banks as part of this you don't expect material costs related to enforcement actions? The outside significant penalties is the question.
And then remember this is the bank regulatory environment and we will have to make an assessment as we get to the other people if we get there what other servicing requirements we may put on.
But the core of what the bank regulatory requirements do is to look back.
And the other things are fairly consistent in our dialogs but we'll see in terms of run rate cost based on that.
But from a standpoint of bank regulators the piece left open is a CMP question.
And then separately but still staying on the mortgage topic here as we think about the sensitivity of some of these mortgage hits outside of credit to HPI declines how much sensitivity is there for example as HPI is 5% worse than expected? What do you think that would mean to the mortgage put-back hits and the litigation hits and some of the other moving pieces? Yes HPI is going to impact us in several areas.
One of them being the PCI purchase credit impaired.
It will impact us in terms of reps and warranties and then it will also impact us on the credit side with our residential mortgages at 180 days past due.
It really is difficult to do it on the purchase credit impaired because as you know it's a fair value of a life alone.
And it not only requires what's going to happen to HPI this year but also assumptions about how long a recovery takes.
But if you did a shock this year of roughly 4% over all those portfolios I just mentioned it'd be probably about $1.5 billion.
But again it assumes on the purchase credit impaired if you got the shock of 4% this year with the gradual increase in home prices over several years but again not returning to 4% increase in home prices until well into the second half of the decade.
And then what about for some of the other buckets like the mortgage or purchases and litigation? How much sensitivity is there to those two [indiscernible]? That was in there as well.
Okay okay.
And then just separately last thing as we look at the net interest margin for the second quarter I think the guidance in March had been you’d bottom out around 2½%.
Obviously 1Q came in a lot better than that.
I'm just wondering what the outlook is on the NIM percent and the net interest income dollars for 2Q? Matt we think it's -- we obviously think that the second quarter will be down not clear that we're going to go down another 17 basis points to 250.
We did have frankly a better performance in the first quarter than we expected.
And we'll go next to the side of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of follow-ups on the Assured.
I wanted to understand how much of the Assured relationship that you have has been settled at this point? I mean you mentioned first and second liens were in this discussion but it looked to me like maybe you only settled on the 21 deals that were first liens? Betsy we have basically resolved virtually all of the controversies between our various companies and Assured and that's contemplated in this settlement.
Probably the only thing that is not contemplated would be those instances in which Bank of America or Countrywide or one of its affiliates might have sold a loan to another institution that then securitized that in the package of mortgages and then sold them to -- or then had them wrapped by Assured.
So the way that transaction would occur Assured would actually go to that third party and assert a potential reps and warranty claim and then that third party in turn can come back to us.
That aggregate exposure in terms of mortgages is about $1.5 billion.
That was not addressed in this nor have we really had much if anything in the way of claims asserted in that regard.
But beyond that we and Assured are basically done.
So is the -- do I interpret therefore that in your settlement there's very little exposure or there's very little claims that you're making good on with regard to the second? Yes with respect to the seconds we're done.
We had provided almost $1.1 billion as of the end of December relating to second-lien exposure and we settled it basically what we had reserved for.
Okay and then as we look towards the remaining claims that are outstanding you indicated $7 billion to $10 million is still your figure.
So on a total basis if we look at 4Q plus 1Q the exposure would be higher by about $1.6 billion.
Is that right? No I think the way to think about that Betsy is that we have re-assessed what the overall exposure is to the non-GSEs.
You would expect with the settlement and with additional accruals that that $7 billion to $10 billion would go down.
That's largely been offset by HPI deterioration.
Okay and then lastly the Assured press release had a discussion about max loss cap dollar amount.
And your dollar amount and theirs are very different.
Is that because the probability of getting that max loss in your opinion is low? No I think -- well they may have a different view.
I think theirs is around -- I saw an earlier draft of it I didn't see the final one.
My recollection is they're around the -- they're thinking about draws we're looking at the underlying reps and warranty exposure.
And we'll go next to the side of Paul Miller with FBR.
Going back to the AGO settlement there's another big settlement out there with some other monolines.
Where you are -- and they're probably larger than probably the AGO.
Can you address that a little bit? Paul I'm not sure what you're asking? Well I guess it's the MBI isn't there another monoline suing you guys for like $20 billion or something MBIA? There are -- if you think about all the monolines there's six companies.
We basically -- we settled with two.
We’ve worked with the other ones.
MBI is the last one and that's a very complex relationship between us because across our company because of the developments in our sales and trading business.
And it's out there and we'll continue to work on it.
And I would note Paul that Assured FSA Assured was really the only one of the monolines not suing us.
And then real quick you've mentioned I think in the presentation or in your -- that you start your foreclosures in nonjudicial states? Where are you with the judicial states like Florida? Have you started foreclosure processes in that state or where do you think you can start? We have started foreclosure process across-the-board.
Across-the-board? Yes remember the difference between judicial and nonjudicial is you've got to wait for the judicial process to take place in the judicial states.
In nonjudicial states it goes a lot quicker.
So you're up and running across-the-board.
We'll go next to Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Two questions.
The first is you had good reduction in the loss rate on the Credit Card business but I think what's interesting is the industry as a whole is kind of moving faster into lower levels.
Can you talk a little bit about kind of what you think the pattern is going to be there over the course of the next several quarters? On the credit card specifically Moshe? Yes credit card specifically yes.
From a high level -- I'll have the team address the specifics but from a high level remember that we were higher than they were and so we're coming down at a good rate.
It's just that I think we got 200 basis points maybe even more above our peers.
We got up to a 14% charge-off rate.
So we have more upside as this keeps coming down.
The underwriting we did starting -- changing in 2008 has outperformed in a not-as-good economic scenario three years later.
And if you look at our emerging peers and stuff we're getting strong performance in the latter part of 2008 clearly 2009 '10.
So I think we have more room to go to improve frankly largely because we had a deeper hole frankly.
And so I'll let Neil or Chuck fill in the exact reasons but in a broad spirit it is that we were dealing with this issue that we just had a higher number to start from.
I think Brian summed it up best ours went bad first and we tightened the buy box and also came down very fast.
Our early stage delinquencies during the quarter continued to improve nicely and we will see continued improvement going forward.
But it will be at a slow pace but if you look back a little bit past four five quarters our improvement has been dramatic.
So if you think about it in broad context we're sort of high-7s now and we should look that to weave under it and to hit a target of five 5½ and frankly with the performance the portfolio we’ve been putting on and time phrase I talked about has actually outperformed that.
So this should be a continuous move.
This was $13 billion in a single quarter at one point so we still got some room to improve but it's come down dramatically.
Kind of on a separate issue you talked a little bit about the capital generation and the deferred tax asset disallowance in the quarter kind of keeping that lower than normal.
But even absent that it feels like given the level of earnings we'd really like to see that pace pick up if you're really going to get to that 8% level in something less than two years.
So could you talk a little bit about what plans you have over and above what the kind of the run rate of earnings? It seems like there would need to be somewhat more.
And related to that any thoughts you might have on the SIFI buffers that might be assessed on you? If you look at the balance sheet that we showed you from last year first quarter there’s three or four quarters in CDRWA [ph] coming down but you have to remember the thing about our company the issues that we had to face is our Basel II implementation is still in process.
And we had to get this dollar work right and that's one of the reasons why we've been pushing our expectation out of when this will all be ready to go until later this year or next year that we need to get some work done.
And part of that work is to continue to optimize the RWA calculation the risk models and other things that will bring down RWA dramatically in our trading areas.
And that requires the systems work that's been going in and will continue to go in during the course of this year.
They've been working on that.
That is a major piece of the equation and then there's a lot of other pieces of equation.
If you look at all the Legacy Assets sold and the Private Equity business being brought down -- and so we just -- we're continuing to do that each quarter.
So we have a road map and it requires us to keep executing very well.
And then the earnings generation remember what's affecting the earnings is actually reductions in risk of a significant amount and then in terms of repurchased or even '03 [ph] portfolios and things like that.
So you've got to think this a little bit mostly in terms of timing.
Stuff we're pulling forward and taking now would have been stuff that we would have taken over time and so that helps us out.
But it really comes down to a lot of this is around the optimization of the balance sheet.
If you think about us we run about 65% of RWA to assets today.
Our U.S.
peers that are on Basel II and been optimizing on the risk models and stuff are in the 50s and our outside United States peers who have been on it for a long time are in the 30s.
And so there's a lot of work for us to do and that work is going on this year.
And that's one of the bridges we have to have completed as we look to do the capital management we like to do for you as shareholders.
Just on the SIFI any thoughts as to how and when we're going to hear about that? One ought to be over the course of the summer here.
We've obviously by using 8% target we’ve sort of said it's going to be something.
I think fundamentally I think I'd go back to what we told you late last fall that those views you saw at our conference where I talked about this we will store that capital on the balance sheet.
So if it's 100 basis points that's $18 billion or $1.80 a share.
If it's higher than that you can do the math we'll store that balance as -- that capital on the balance sheet will be embedded into the book value.
You can't put it to work because if you do then you have to need more.
So if it's a higher number we’ll have to store more capital but we'll let that play out.
I think in terms of the broad policy I think we've got enough risk-based capital to run this company and even more than we need.
And I think we'll continue to work on our discussions in the broader policymakers about what the "right answer" is.
But in fact we've sort of accounted for 100 basis points if it’s higher than that we'll be storing the capital but it's all yours.
That’s what we've been trying to clear to you.
It's not going anywhere.
It's not doing anything.
It's not making acquisitions.
It's not being put in a business it's all there.
And the good thing is is even if it is a higher number what we haven't talked to you a lot about is from -- we're trying to hit that 8%.
Our math gets us there at the end of next year but -- and that's as if Basel III was fully implemented.
If you think about a higher SIFI level you have you really have five six seven years to put it in.
But importantly what is not apparent to a lot of people is that the amount of optimization we actually have in the latter years is still high because there are certain structured credit trades or certain run-off portfolio still stands about half its balance after a couple of years.
That will provide additional pause [ph] momentum none of which is core to our business.
And so we have a roadmap even '13 '14 '15 that there's significant RWA optimization available to us largely if we can be there in the sense that these are structured credit trades they’re going to run off in other aspects it’ll run off.
So I think if it goes a little higher we have other optimization.
And I think in terms of the shareholder view of that I think we'd manage into it over time to be clear with you how we're building towards it.
But we got the risk capital to run this company.
And we'll take our next question from the side of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Good morning.
In terms of the $1.6 billion settlement with Assured could you just walk me through how that runs through the income statement? I'm looking at Page 21 and looking at the repurchase reserve and I guess it's not clear to me how that's either coming out of the reserve or going to the income statement in some other way? Sure.
Well think of this in two elements.
We had provided right around $1.1 billion $1 050 000 000 for second-lien exposure.
So that was in our reserve as of the end of December.
We will make a payment of approximately $1.1 billion in the second quarter and beyond in order to satisfy that.
So that $1.1 billion reserve was in the $5.4 billion ending balance of the rep and warranty liability and is in the $6.2 billion.
So it's going to be netted against the $6.2 billion next quarter? Yes we haven't made -- we did not make the payments as of March 31.
We signed the agreement yesterday with Assured.
We will begin making payments coincident with the signing of that agreement and into the future.
So that's one element of it.
We also entered into a reinsurance arrangement with respect to the first-lien mortgages principally because there's very little experience associated with that.
We had some modest reserves set aside for that for a portion of that.
But there's very little experience Assured has put back to us a relatively small number of those mortgages.
And so rather than pay them for something that may never happen we thought it was more prudent to enter into a reinsurance arrangement where we've taken a view as they have with respect to the -- how those drawdowns will occur and how we might participate in those.
And we estimated the cost of that reinsurance arrangement as we've said at about $500 million.
And that was accrued in the -- as a part of our consideration of the first quarter rep and warranty liability.
And then maybe Brian can put some context around this secondary question.
I mean you mentioned that you feel like you're at sort of a core pretax pre-provision run rate of about $10 billion which as I go through your non-recurring items we get pretty close to that number as well.
And then I sort of think about looking forward this was a reasonably good trading quarter.
You're going to have some net interest margin pressure at least in the second quarter and maybe lower net interest income.
And then we at least get about a $500 million or maybe more a quarter hit from the implementation of the Durbin Amendment although obviously that could get delayed but at this point I guess we'll see.
But that sort of brings me down to no more than sort of an annualized run rate of about $38 billion 9½ x 4.
And so it strikes me as a challenge -- and maybe you could just walk me through some of the bigger items of how you think you're going to get to a $45 billion to $50 billion pretax pre-provision run rate.
Because sort of the middle of that range is about a 25% increase from $38 billion so I'm just maybe looking at context around that.
Sure.
I think you've got a -- maybe behind us make sure your time frame's right.
We said that was beyond the '11 and '12 time frame out there.
Think about what would happen between now and then.
You'd have the mortgage cost come down you'd have the interest rate environment change and so we may do better next quarter.
As Chuck said we're 267 on the margin.
We totally might bottom at 250 we may do better mathematically and the numbers be higher.
But if rates rise and I assume at some point the core estimates of the market -- our core estimates rates rise up to a modest set funds rate of a couple of percentage points that is hugely beneficial to our company and ought to push us back up to 275 and higher in the margin.
If you start to do the math on our size balance sheet that's significant.
So the cost structure comes down that happens.
And then on top of that while we had a reasonably good trading quarter that $4.5 million that is the run rate that's on -- needs to produce on a quarterly basis.
If you look at the how that we're getting that now it is all core customer-driven business that is just coming through coming through.
Last year's elevated levels and last year's decline levels had more to do with sort of circumstances outside their control.
But that's that.
Then if you go to the other core businesses remember as the economy grows we have had no loan growth.
We'll continue to run them down.
The runoff portfolio which costs us $1.8 billion $1.9 billion this quarter it's half that number out there.
So it's really continued credit cost -- continued cost structure improvement.
It's really the interest rate environment not going crazy but just improving the -- a little bit which really helps the core deposit business and then grinding on the growth of the franchise that we see on the revenue line based on the fees and other factors.
And so the restructuring of consumer deposit accounts which would be effective this year into next year you'll see -- and as we've said the expenses are unavoidable on the mortgage side now but we'll get those out then we'll work on the rest of it.
So I think the business around rates expenses and then the economy if you've said economy was going to go on decline that's a different question.
But assume the economy gets up to more than a trend growth the 3% 3½% type of numbers you'll see the general earnings of the company lift because of loans and other things.
Okay.
And then last quick one over the last two quarters the period end share count has gone up by approximately 50 million a quarter.
Is that a share creep-up rate based on I guess employee comp that we should continue to think about? Neil won't you...
It's comp.
It's pretty much comp.
And we should expect some kind of creep-up like that each quarter not just in the first quarter? Ed in the average shares if you're looking at average shares we also had a two preferred issues that flipped and a common in the fourth quarter that pushed up the average cost.
The mandatory converts we had.
Correct.
So I think Ed what we haven't been able to do and we'll be able to do as we move down the road is the issue of being able to neutralize the comp-related stuff which was we get to the point where we can capital manage we’ll do that as one of the first things.
And we'll go next to the side of John McDonald with Stanford Bernstein (sic) [Sanford Bernstein].
Inc.</strong> One more question on the Assured Guaranty.
Chuck are there reasons to believe that their success rate would be higher than claims you received from other private investors perhaps if they have stronger rep and warranties or anything you can point to there? No I don't -- it's not a contractual issue John.
It's -- just keep in mind they're about a third of our home equity exposure.
And that second-lien home equity exposure is probably some of your most riskiest stuff.
Inc.</strong> So just higher loss content due to the mix of the home equity? Yes.
Remember it's dominant part home equity here for this kind of party whereas you get the private label it's all really all firsts.
That's right.
Inc.</strong> And then as a reminder in terms of Basel and dividends as a reminder for us you said that you feel like you can get to the 8% Basel 2.5 and III.
Just over what time frame was that? And is that assuming kind of no phase-in? Can you just remind us of what you're looking at for your outlook there? What we said to you was 8% Tier 1 Basel III common at year end 2012.
That's the goal under the Basel III standards with no -- and then -- and so we're there above the standards depending on the SIFI buffer discussion that would be phased in over time.
But our goal is to hit that at the end of 2012.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And have you said anything about where you think you'll be on that by the end of this year? We had not said on the Basel III level but as Basel 2.5 becomes effective we would be above 8% under those standards at that point I think is what we said earlier.
But we have not sort of given you pro formas and we'll continue to look at doing it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Brian is there any comment you can make regarding the dividend the Fed process? Any specific areas where they were looking for more clarity where they wanted to see things get clearer before saying yes to your dividend increase request? We didn't ask them for an increase until the latter part of this year because we knew we had to get the work done I mentioned earlier around continuing to get the systems integrated the risk management down and frankly taking care of some of the issues like we took care of this morning clarity there.
And so we continue to make progress in that and that leads to -- but that's really -- the core issue is us getting a lot of -- getting the work done that we promised them to do in the context of implementing the risk management standards of the company.
They've been in agreement with us our work plans all the way along.
And it's their process and how we can resubmit and stuff is up to them.
But on the other hand I tell you that we have a clear path that we know what we need to get done and we're doing the work.
And that's why we knew we had no chance and told you back in January we're not going to ask for anything in the first part of this year because we knew we had to get this work done and they knew we had to get this work done.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the last thing here could you explain again you might have said it that the greater disallowance of the DTA in your regulatory capital ratios what drove that? Well when we acquired Merrill Lynch the regulators gave us a three-year look forward period.
I think last year it was two years now it's one year.
In terms of the amount of in effect allowable DTA that we can include in our regulatory capital calculation.
This is so you don't make the same mistake I keep making.
I keep thinking we're making is this has nothing to do with the tax position.
This is purely what you can count in regulatory capital.
And they went back -- during the height of crisis remember they widened the standard because the reality of earning streams.
And now we've gone back to the pre-crisis standard but the actual tax position is a separate level.
Which is one year.
We're not losing any deferred tax benefits as an enterprise.
It's what you can count in the regulatory capital calculation.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Carrying forward from the merger carrying forward? Yes and this was all contemplated in all those tests and everything we had.
Inc.</strong> So no -- you don't see risk of this happening again? It's kind of done? No we're down to the one-year look forward period which is the more traditional one.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
One more -- can I ask one more quick thing here? On the expenses Brian do you have a longer-term target and is that something you eventually think you'll talk about whether a $75 billion expense base or a $70 billion or a $65 billion is kind of the right number for the company? You baked something into the Investor Day when you talked about $45 billion to $50 billion like pre-provision earnings.
Is that -- as you go through this expense initiative and efficiency you'll talk a little about what you think the right expense number is? I think we gave you an efficiency ratio target of getting back down to 55%.
And you can see across the quarters this efficiency ratio was bouncing all over the place right now 58% second quarter 100% I think the third quarter 92% 75%.
But it's because of one time's in and out.
Remember we're getting hits to revenue on these rep and warranties are actually revenue offsets not expense.
But the goal is we can see that as that just settles and that pushes you down in the 60s and with the -- all the work we're doing over the next couple of years we're pushed down to 55%.
We expect this efficiency ratio because you got to be aware that as revenues rise we want to deploy the expenses to continue to build this franchise.
So we want to make sure we're matching the chances in our international capabilities the chances to grow small business bankers the chance to grow more financial advisors to serve clients.
We do not want to cut back on that while we're taking the expenses out of places that need to have them taken out.
And we'll go next to the side of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
A few clarifications.
So what did HPI do over the quarter? What had you expected? And what do you expect going forward? As far as HPI going forward we expect gradual improvement over the second half of the year further deterioration next quarter but not dramatic.
But a gradual improvement over the balance of the year is where we're at.
As far as the deterioration in the first quarter it's on a three-month lag but off the top of my head I want to say we had about 1½% for the quarter.
I'm sorry that's what it went down? That's correct.
And you had expected I guess to be stable or so? Well what you did -- I mentioned the three-month lag so we had some catch-up because of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then as it relates to the dividend I'm still not crystal clear on exactly what happened.
You said all along you didn't expect the dividend increase until late this year.
You go ahead and submit a capital plan with the dividend increase and the Federal Reserve comes back and says "You're denied." I guess I just don't understand the procedure aspect.
I think the procedure aspect ought to lead to the people who designed – the Federal Reserve designed the process but we asked them.
And I think the idea of them approving something six months in advance of when we've done the work we need to do I think that's what they basically said keep doing the work and go on.
And that's why I think it's a little bit hard to explain but in our dialogues with them the idea was to get the work done and then we get the approval.
If we get the work done right and continue to approve the company's prospects during the first half of this year the process they designed and the answer they gave us was what we disclosed.
But I think the team -- my dialogues with the team and they've been with us all the way is to get the work done and then we'll be ready to get approved.
But they weren't going to approve it in advance of that work being done.
But you can still get your dividend increase by the year end.
What...
We don't know what the process will be for resubmission but as soon as -- when we figure that out we can tell you.
But would you say there's still a chance for a dividend increase by the end of the year? We should pull back Mike and make sure.
I said that we got to get the process down instead.
But if you step back what we’ve tried to make clear to you guys is for '11 and '12 this is a modest dividend idea because we have to get to that 8% Basel III Tier 1 common level which requires us to maintain most of the capital.
And then after that we're in a position to start returning the capital.
But all the capital that we accumulate is in our changed book values on the balance sheet and then it's going for the benefit of shareholders.
We're not using it to do anything else.
So I think whether we get the dividend in the second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter whatever next year this year I think what we're trying to be clear to you is that we need -- we're doing the work we need to do.
We've been repositioning this company improving it.
And as soon as we and the regulators and the process is set we'll let you know where we stand.
Last follow-up on that.
But you will resubmit a capital plan that would at least propose the dividend increase by the end of the year? The question's whether or not it would get approved? The capital plan is a two-year -- look we have all the submissions in at two years and we'll resubmit that when the process allows you to.
All right then separately as far as the peace dividend you said several times over the call in a couple years in a couple years.
You have a new process in place to take a look at expenses.
I'm just wondering if we'll see a little bit more of the efficiency pick up over the next couple of quarters.
I know a lot of it's depending on credit.
But aside from credit what confidence can you give us that you have an eye on expenses quarter-after-quarter even after acknowledging the International Small Business FA investments? Let's take a look at the headcount across the last few quarters.
This quarter on a period-to-period we're 0.3% change on 288 000 people.
If you look at that that's 700 total human beings 2 700 adds in the home loan investment to work on that we geared up during the quarter to continue to work on that.
2000 down the rest of the company including net of all the investments we made.
So we're managing to head down in the places.
Barbara as we've talked about earlier just announced on the production side of the mortgage company we're down 3 500 people.
2 000 of them are contractors we obviously would take the contractors first.
So as you think about we're managing these expenses down as we speak but running through the expense lines of litigation expense and other things which throw it out on a given quarter $1 billion round numbers and some of those items this quarter.
So those will come down quickly once we sort of get through some of the stuff.
The headcount we're bringing down which is the number one thing we can control and drive to.
While we're making investments we added many small business bankers 200 FAs and things like that.
In the same quarter we're overall heads we're flattish and we added 2 700 people.
So we're working on it every day.
We're not waiting for the white smoke to rise from this process and we continue to drive at it.
The 50 branch closings in the quarter the 2.60 on the all-in cost of all the call centers already online total deposits and I challenge you to ask anybody in the industry if they’re close to that.
I was talking to somebody who told me they were at 4¼ 4½.
It’s a thing to scale in this business but we keep driving at that that's down 4 basis points.
If everywhere we can we continue to work on expenses what we're now allowing as core of the process that will help us accelerate that.
And then last question the syndicated loans are hot recently.
What were your fees from being an arranger on syndicated loans? And how much did the syndicated loans help your loans in Global Banking? We'll get back to you on that.
I don't know.
We are one of the leaders in that business and have always been.
Given the time constraint we will allow one more question.
And we'll take our final question from Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
A couple of questions just on trading.
Tom Montag talks about being down 15 to 20 at the Investor Day.
Can you give a little more color as to what happened in March that you've done a little bit more than that? Which categories changed? And secondly on IB it seems like your market share and volumes has moved up faster than fees.
Can you -- it seems like a couple of big deals you got into other.
Can you talk about what's going on in fees in that respect? As you think about it the 15% 20% down that Tom talked about of the $8 billion obviously was still in the quarter.
You had to see what took place in March and there's been some stuff in and out.
But on the other hand also as we went through March the DVA and other things which was fairly significant would have been taken the last month of the quarter.
But overall if you think about from the fourth quarter the first quarter we doubled the fixed income revenue and the equity revenue I think went up by 40% 50% 60%.
So we've had a reasonable rebound.
When you go to investment banking fees I only count what people pay us so the lead tables having had that group for a couple of years I talked to them about when somebody pays us I know I've got cash that's the interesting part of the business.
And I think we did about $1.5 billion steady with the fourth quarter last year which had some good activity up from $1.2 billion last year first quarter.
And we continue to have a strong and robust pipeline.
And if you've seen some of the offerings going out on the IPOs and things like that and we expect us to be continuing to improve those fees.
But we got $1.5 billion in fees every quarter.
For the last eight or nine we've been second based on fees received and expect that.
And I guess that will continue.
And on the trading side Brian if you just break that down a little bit by products versus rates FX derivatives securitized trust can you give some color as to how you did on that year-on-year linked quarter and in terms of March what got weaker? Which category? We'll get Lee or Kevin to fill some of that in for you.
But in broad stand the place that we're -- still need to make improvement in the Commodities business.
That's one of the difference between us and some of our peers and -- but on the other hand we've done a good job in the rates and currencies and other areas.
So it's really one of the big differences just gross dollar amount between us and others is our Commodities business is just smaller and not performing so well.
And so we'll – Lee can fill you in on some of the details but overall that's one of the big easy identifiable differences.
Thank you everyone and look forward to seeing you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect at any time.
Thank you and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded [Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Stitt.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
And these factors include among other things changes in economic conditions changes in interest rates competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses.
And for additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Kevin.
Now before I turn it over to Bruce I just want to make a few comments about the quarter.
As we discussed on the call on June 29 we announced the settlement on private-label securities litigation.
We've been working hard to put large pieces of uncertain risks behind us as a company and where we can do that on the basis reasonable to you as our shareholders.
This quarter following the actions we took on last year's fourth quarter on the GSEs in the first quarter on the monolines we put another significant part of the rep and warrant exposure behind us and other mortgage-related matters.
In all as you can see from the materials we took almost $20 billion in charges related to the Mortgage business.
That is translated in a $0.90 per share loss in the range we gave you a few weeks ago.
Adjusting for the mortgage charges our earnings were $0.33 a share that's the high end of the range we gave you in June.
Bruce is going to give you more details on those adjustments later on.
Switching to the important question of capital.
The work we have done to improve our balance sheet over the last several quarters came through this quarter as even with the loss we reported capital ratios which are stronger than this quarter in 2010.
Our Tier 1 common ratio which we -- was -- which we said at the end of June was coming around 8% actually came in at 8.23% higher than we expected a drop of 20 basis points since the first quarter 2011 but improving since last year.
Our tangible common equity ratio which we estimated at the end of June to be about 5.7% came in at 5.87% again an improvement of what we said.
We achieved the ratios through the continued balance sheet optimization and repair that we've been going through the company over the last several quarters.
In all during the second quarter 2011 our RWA came down over $30 billion.
Bruce is going to take you through the actions we completed during the second quarter of 2011 and more importantly the actions that are still ahead of us in the quarters ahead all of which gave us comfort and demonstrate we don't need to raise capital as we continue on our plans to comply with Basel III.
As we look at the business lines and you can see how they perform this quarter shows the power of the rest of our franchise which has been covered up by losses in Mortgage.
As you can see on Slide 5 you can see the results.
Each business line other than Mortgage had solid earnings and returns earning all -- in all over $5.7 billion after tax.
The franchise and customer model continues to shine through.
In our Deposits business we grew deposits.
We also grew accounts at 2x the rate we grew them last quarter on net new checking accounts.
We paid less for our deposits this quarter on our deposits franchise and we lowered our cost to operate the franchise in this quarter.
The transformation of this business unit continues to go well and we are growing our fees again offsetting the overdraft regulations that came through last year.
In our Card business we had strong performance aided by the credit provision released.
But we also increased our units in the United States this quarter to over 730 000 new cards.
The Durbin will affect this business in subsequent quarters and Bruce will lay that out later.
In our Global Wealth Investment Management business we had another solid quarter.
We grew long-term assets grew our advisory team and continue to see strong performance across the franchise.
As we move to the corporate commercial side of our house we had strong earnings in our Global Commercial Bank as you can see.
That's our Middle Market business led by David Darnell.
And we had a good quarter in our global corporate Investment Banking business which is part of the GBAM led by Tom -- GBAM unit led by Tom Montag.
That serves our larger corporate customers around the world.
The deposit and treasury management revenues in these businesses were solid.
The loan growth outside the U.S.
is strong and our investment Banking fees of $1.6 billion plus were one of the best quarters we had in this business since we came together several quarters ago.
Our efforts here also show that our international businesses investments are starting to bear fruit as the revenues outside the United States grew faster than revenues inside the United States.
As we switch our sales and trading portion of the GBAM Global Banking and Markets business we had a solid quarter down from the first quarter of 2011 but up from the second quarter of last year.
We made money on 97% of the trading days even on a choppy market.
Let me switch to 2 other areas of focus our credit and expenses.
On credit we continue to see improvements in all portfolios and we still have upside as charge-offs will continue to fall.
Delinquencies in all portfolios continue to come down despite the recent backup on some economic and unemployment statistics.
Our -- on expenses we continue to manage to a flat core expense level that Bruce will show you in a few minutes if you eliminate the large mortgage onetime charges in the expense base.
We've seen our headcount go down slightly this quarter.
We continue to invest where we need and have to in this franchise.
Examples are the LAS buildout the Legacy Asset Services buildout where we've had to invest to collect the delinquent mortgage loans but more importantly on the revenue side investing in more wealth managers in our Global Wealth and Investment Management business more FSAs or brokers in our branch and small business lenders in our Deposits business our international franchise and importantly a technology investor throughout the franchise.
At the same time we continue to take out expenses in other areas to help fund these investments.
For example this quarter our branch count is down 63 from last quarter.
Our New BAC projects which is a company-wide initiative on expenses will be done this quarter in the third quarter 2011 for one -- about 1/2 of the company and we'll give you the results of that in October and show you what we plan to do with the second half of the company during the latter part of this year.
Suffice to say that the work so far has gone well and shows a great opportunity to make our company better and more efficient in the future.
With that I want to turn it over to Bruce to take you through the quarter.
Great.
Thanks Brian and good morning.
If I could ask you to start with Slide 6.
As Brian referenced during the quarter on a reported basis we had a net loss of $8.8 billion or $0.90 a share and if we adjust that for mortgage-related and other items we reported net income of $3.7 billion or $0.33 a share.
We've scheduled down at the bottom of the page the onetime items coming through the P&amp;L.
The $15.5 billion of mortgage-related revenue charges is comprised of $14 billion of reps and warrants and $1.5 billion negative valuation effect on our MSR.
On the mortgage-related expense items of $2.6 billion $1.9 billion of that litigation expense and $700 million assessments and waivers.
And then we've scheduled out back on Slide 30 the asset sale gains and other amounts that are comprised of a variety of items.
Before I leave this page I'd like to touch briefly on taxes.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 39.4% excluding our goodwill impairment.
As you look out and think of the balance of the year think about the effective tax rate in the 30% area excluding any unusual adjustments.
The other thing I'd call your attention to here is during the third quarter we will have an $800 million hit to our U.K.
deferred tax asset given the reduction in U.K.
taxes that we would expect to be approved during the third quarter.
Turning to Page 7 and looking at the balance sheet.
Assets during the quarter were down slightly while we continue to see growth in the deposits.
I'd ask you to spend a minute and focus on risk-weighted assets.
Risk-weighted assets were down $40.7 billion for the quarter or 2.8% which is consistent with our strategy of driving down risk-weighted assets as we look out to the new Basel capital rules.
To give you a sense of the magnitude of this reduction it led to a 23-basis-point benefit to Tier 1 common during the quarter.
As Brian alluded to Tier 1 common at the end of the quarter was solid at 8.23% and tangible book value ended the quarter at 12.65% (sic) [$12.65].
From an asset quality and a reserve perspective ending loan loss reserves after the release were $37.3 billion or 4% of loans and leases in over 1.6x our annualized charge-offs that we saw for the quarter.
On Slide 8 we walk through our net interest income for the quarter.
On an FTE basis net interest income was down roughly $900 million for the quarter.
Net interest margin was at 2.5% which is consistent with our previous guidance where we expected net interest income margin to trough in the 2.5% area.
As you think about the decline in net interest income it was due to several factors.
The first on the consumer side lower balances and lower yields.
The second the drop in long-term interest rates had a negative impact on our hedge results and third we had lower trading-related revenues.
As you think about our strategy with net interest income and managing OCI risks we continue to be very focused on keeping the duration in our discretionary portfolio short as our asset liability management strategy is focused on managing interest rate risk across the company and minimizing higher -- or excuse me minimizing OCI exposure to the extent we were to have a higher interest rate environment as we move towards Basel.
If we flip to Slide 9 and look at the Deposits business.
Net income in the Deposits business was $430 million during the quarter up $75 million or roughly 21% from the first quarter of 2011.
Average deposits were up 2% for the quarter and net new accounts were positive for the second consecutive quarter.
Brian referenced the rates paid on deposits and the cost per dollar of deposit.
Rates paid on deposits came down 3 basis points from 32 basis points to 29 and cost per deposit which we define as noninterest expense over average deposits came down from 2.6% in the first quarter to 2.44% during the current quarter.
On Slide 10 we walk through our Global Card business where net income was $2 billion a $300 million improvement or 17% over the first quarter as credit improvements more than offset lower net interest income from lower average loans and yields.
As we think about volumes total purchase volume for debit and credit transactions was up seasonally 9% from the first quarter and 6% when we compare it back to the second quarter of 2010.
Credit continued to improve significantly as delinquencies improved and U.S.
charge-offs declined for the seventh consecutive quarter.
From an average loan and lease perspective the $5.6 billion decline in average loans from the first quarter was due to higher payments charge-offs and continued runoff in our noncore credit portfolio.
In addition to that reduction we exited approximately $2 billion in receivables at the end of the quarter with virtually no income statement effect.
There's been a lot of questions about Durbin out there.
If we look at our second quarter results and we look out to the fourth quarter which will be the quarter in which Durbin is implemented we would expect a negative $475-million revenue impact from Durbin out in the fourth quarter relative to where we were in this quarter.
On Slide 11 we walk through the Global Wealth and Investment Management business.
Net income was $506 million down $27 million or 5% from the quarter based on higher expenses from increases in the investment in our Financial Advisors as well as higher credit costs.
Revenue for the quarter was nearly flat to record first quarter levels that we saw during the first quarter of '11 as record asset management fees driven by market and long-term AUM loans were offset by lower brokerage revenues reflecting lower market activity.
During the quarter more than 500 Financial Advisors joined the leading advisory force pushing the total number of FAs to over 16 000 for the first time since the Merrill Lynch merger.
Ending loans within the business group for the fifth consecutive quarter and were up $1.6 billion.
Turning to Slide 12 and looking at the Commercial Banking line of business.
Net income of $1.4 billion was up $458 million from the first quarter and was at its highest level since the second quarter of 2009.
Average deposits grew $6.3 billion or 4% during the quarter as customers in this line of business continue to remain highly liquid.
As we look at average loans average loans declined $3.1 billion.
On the negative we saw commercial real estate decline by roughly $2.2 billion which masked the improvement and the increase in average loans that we saw in commercial industrial loans in our Middle Market business.
Once again very strong improvement in asset quality within the Commercial Bank.
Charge-offs declined $193 million or 38% from the first quarter.
Nonperformers declined 11% and we continued to see very solid performance in credit.
If we move to Page 13 and look at the Global Banking and Markets business net income for this business was $1.6 billion for the quarter and fell seasonally from -- seasonally by $576 million from the first quarter on lower sales and trading results that were partially offset during the quarter by higher Investment Banking fees.
If we start to look at sales and trading the revenues for the quarter were $3.8 billion dollars a $1.1 billion decline from the first quarter but up approximately $666 million from the second quarter.
We've laid out the DVA gains that we saw during the 3 periods on this slide.
And I think as you think about this business and think about the second quarter as far as how we ran the business its market certainty increased towards the end of the quarter based on what's going on in Europe global economic concerns and quite frankly the lack of opportunity to make money we reduced risk at the end of the quarter.
From a risk-weighted assets perspective within sales and trading they declined $37 billion as we reduced legacy assets exited our proprietary trading business in its entirety and continued to optimize the balance sheet as we look forward to Basel III.
If we move to Investment Banking Investment Banking revenues of $1.6 billion excluding any self-led transactions were a record since the closing of the Merrill Lynch merger and we saw strong activity across all the Investment Banking products.
If we move to Corporate Banking average loans and leases increased $5.8 billion or approximately 6% from the first quarter as we saw strong growth in our international commercial loans and trade finance which is consistent with what we've spoken about before as we made investments internationally in 2010 and they've started to bear fruit in 2011.
The next 3 slides we're going to touch on are Consumer Real Estate Services.
On a consolidated basis you can see this segment reported a $14.5 billion loss.
If we adjust out all of the onetime items that I talked about at the beginning of the call net loss for the quarter was $954 million versus the $399 million that we saw during the first quarter of '11.
The adjusted loss of $555-million delta occurred as the revenue was impacted by the sale of Balboa which closed on June 1 as well as higher operating costs within the Legacy Asset Services area.
I would also highlight during the quarter the MSR decreased by $2.9 billion from $15.3 billion to $12.4 billion.
And as we look at the cap rate on that MSR it was at 78 basis points at the end of the second quarter versus 95 basis points at the end of the first quarter.
On Slide 15 we look at the Home Loans business which is the ongoing mortgage operation within our bank.
You can see that net income for the quarter was $531 million.
If we back out the gain on Balboa it was $86 million up slightly from the $77 million in the first quarter.
Revenue in the quarter was helped by higher lock revenue that resulted from deliberate pricing actions that we took as well as favorable channel mix and was offset by lower production volumes.
On Page 16 we look at the Legacy Asset Servicing business which you'll recall is the business where we move a bucket of loans that are either significantly delinquent loans or products that we no longer are interested in participating in you can see once we adjust out the onetimers here the net loss for the quarter was $1.4 billion compared to roughly $800 million during the first quarter.
The 2 principal reasons for the increased loss was the result of increased costs from staffing levels within the business as well as an increase in provision.
As you monitor the progress in this business this is obviously a discrete portfolio where we're both trying to work down the number of loans in the portfolio as well as reduce the number of delinquent loans in the portfolio.
And if you look in the bottom left-hand corner you can see we made very good progress during the quarter.
Number of loans serviced was down about 3.3% and the number of 60 days -- number of loans 60 days delinquent in the portfolio was down roughly 5%.
On Page 17 we look at All Other which is a net loss of $216 million.
That's the result of elevated credit cost related to valuation refreshes on our consumer loans as well as lower revenues.
As you look at the revenue line item for the quarter 3 types of items that affected revenue for the quarter.
We had roughly a $200 million FVO adjustment on our structured notes $831 million of gains on debt securities and about $1.1 billion of equity investment income that was comprised of the dividends from our CCB investment the gain on the disposition of the balance of our BlackRock interest partially offset by $500 million impairment on a strategic equity investment.
During his opening remarks Brian touched on expenses.
We've laid those out here.
First I'd like to say a couple of things.
If we exclude these selected items which we detailed elsewhere in this presentation the reported $22.9 billion of expenses was $17.7 billion in line with the first quarter and relatively flat with the fourth quarter.
Expenses related to increased servicing cost in our Mortgage business as well as the additional client-facing professionals that we've talked about in this presentation were offset by reduced personnel in various other areas of the company.
We referenced New BAC.
In May we initiated New BAC which is an intensive effort on our part to create greater efficiency throughout the organization.
We're currently identifying ideas and action plans and we intend to begin implementing those as we get closer to the end of the year.
While I know you want us to identify some potential benefits to the bottom line all I can say at this time is we're very focused on expenses and we'll update you on the progress as we meet certain milestones.
The next couple of slides I'm going to talk briefly about credit trends which continued to be quite strong.
On Slide 19 we look at consumer credit trends.
You can see net charge-offs delinquencies and nonperformers continue to improve and the total provision expense for the quarter for our consumer loan portfolios was $3.8 billion which is comprised of $5.2 billion of charge-offs and a reserve reduction of $1.4 billion.
On Slide 20 we look at mortgage and home equity delinquencies.
What I would highlight here as you can see delinquencies peaked in the second quarter of 2009 and we've seen 5 quarters of continued reductions in those delinquencies through the second quarter of 2011.
On Slide 21 we look at nonperforming assets within our residential Mortgage and Home Equity books.
You can see that during the second quarter of 2011 both less than 180 day as well as greater than 180-day delinquencies improved in both residential mortgage and home equity.
With that being said I'd make 2 additional points.
The first charge-offs do remain elevated due to refreshed valuation losses even though the frequency of loss continues to improve.
The second thing I would note is that we've started to see the greater than 180-day backlog decline as foreclosure activity has started particularly in most nonjudicial states.
On Slide 22 we talked about home price impact on the call on June 29.
We said we'd give you some greater color on that and what we've laid out here are those portfolios that are most subject to immediate changes in home prices.
As you think about home prices in our assumptions once again we look at macro markets.
Currently our assumptions are very much in line with those.
We expect a little bit north of a 3% decline in home prices in 2011 and a 1% increase in 2012 largely during the second half.
As you think about the individual portfolios that are affected by home prices we have roughly $40 billion of portfolios that are directly affected $13 billion of nonperforming loans that are more than 180 days past due that have been written down to net realizable value.
Given they're at net realizable value every 1% decline in home prices will have a correspondingly immediate effect on this portfolio.
Within purchase credit impaired which is carried at $0.66 we have $27 billion of carrying value.
That portfolio on average is about 40% delinquent.
So as you think about a 1% decline in home prices it will be immediately affected but not to the entire magnitude of the decline in home prices.
Outside of that which is on our balance sheet we're affected by home prices in the GSEs.
If you think about how we're affected by the GSEs to the extent home prices go down it affects the collateral losses which they bear.
We obviously share those collateral losses to the extent that we have defects.
We currently estimate that about every 1% change in home prices is $125 million relative to the GSEs.
We've not touched on or talked to how changes in home prices can affect our core portfolio that obviously is something that happens over a period of time and we provide reserves over and above what our model reserves are to try to reflect those types of risks that are out there.
On 23 we look at commercial credit trends.
Charge-offs declined $180 million in the second quarter of '11 relative to the first quarter.
Total provision was a benefit of $523 million and reflected a reserve reduction of $1 billion in the quarter.
I would also note you can see that both nonperformers and reservable credit size declined 11% during the quarter as corporate credit continued to improve.
Let's now shift from credit to capital.
On 24 we've laid out our Basel I Tier 1 common which Brian alluded to at 8.23%.
And as I mentioned earlier 23 basis points of benefit based on the improvement in risk-weighted assets under Basel I.
On Page 25 which we showed tangible common which remains very strong at just under 6% and tangible book value at $12.65 at the end of the quarter.
As we look out at Basel III we've laid out on Slide 26 the phase-in schedule.
What I would say here is we continue to very actively mitigate both the numerator and the denominator effects.
As we approach Basel III we will be well above all of the minimums that are required under Basel and once again as we told you at the end of June we have a goal of 6.75% to 7% of Tier 1 common as we enter into 2013.
On Slide 27.
As we think about Basel mitigation we show you the different things that we've completed since we became very focused on this at the beginning of 2010.
If you look at the bottom left we talked about the things that we've accomplished during the first half of '11.
Risk-weighted assets under Basel I down by over $60 billion due in part to reducing our legacy capital markets risk exposures.
Our MSR as I referenced is down $2.5 billion and we completed asset sale gains generating $1.3 billion of Tier 1 common gains and reducing risk-weighted assets by $5 billion during the first half of the year.
As we look out at the activities that we're focused on to meet the guidance that we've given at year-end 2012 on the numerator side under Basel III we see additional mitigation of $200 billion to $250 billion that will enable us to get to our targeted Basel III risk-weighted assets of $1.8 trillion.
The way that we'll get there is to continue to reduce our capital-intensive assets rebalance our portfolios and optimize our models to be able to get to where we need to for Basel III.
We'll also continue to very aggressively as I talked about in interest rate to manage the OCI risk associated with our interest -- our net interest income.
The last point here future mitigation efforts.
We've obviously heard the question that's out there: Your 6.75% to 7% at the end '12 where do you go beyond that? As you look to get to the fully phased-in number of 9.5% by the end of '19 even with all of the actions that we've talked about we have significant additional actions we can take in '13 and beyond.
We've laid out 3 portfolios of assets here that we would expect to reduce aggressively.
We have a loan run-off portfolio of $70 billion that we would expect at the end of '12 that runs off by roughly 20% a year.
We have a structured credit trading book that's roughly $30 billion at the end of '12 that will run off over a 5-year period as well.
And we have a private equity portfolio that's roughly $50 billion under Basel III that will be out there at the end of '12 that we'd expect to run off over the several years beyond 2012.
In addition to that you can expect to see us continue to reduce assets in the way that we've done over the course of the last 6 quarters.
If we move now from the denominator to the numerator 2 things I want to touch on here.
The first is the MSR.
We referenced that the MSR is $12.5 billion at the end of the second quarter.
You can expect to see us taking 2 types of actions with respect to the MSR going forward that will benefit the numbers beyond the 6.75% to 7% range I quoted.
The first is we're taking a very close look at the types of activities we're originating in servicing.
So on the front end you'll see actions where we look to scale back that which we put on our books to service.
Secondly we're very focused on looking out and moving MSR assets through sale in those instances where it makes sense.
We had roughly $70 million of gains on MSR sales during the second quarter of this year.
The last thing I want to highlight on the numerator is the deferred tax asset and the multiplier effect with respect to that.
As I think everyone knows the deferred tax asset flows through the Basel calculations in several different ways depending on whether or not it's an NOL DTA or a timing DTA.
As you think about the leverage though and the benefits that we will have from the reductions in DTA through 2012 and significantly but -- beyond at the end of June we'll have roughly $30 billion of a net deferred tax asset roughly 2/3 of that is associated with NOLs and 1/3 is associated with timing.
The net effect of that is that we would expect our Tier 1 common to grow at a rate that's above that which is improved just by the generation of net income.
As we look to wrap up and close we continue to work very diligently in getting the legacy assets -- or excuse me the legacy issues as well as the legacy assets behind us while we reposition our business for future growth.
If you think about the earnings this quarter they demonstrated that our businesses outside of mortgage are producing attractive returns even with the headwinds of low interest rates.
Deposits continue to grow as we make progress on our customer-focused relationship strategy.
Credit quality continues to improve.
We have solid capital ratios.
Our liquidity position is very strong and we expect to grow capital going forward.
We look at the opportunity each day to make progress and that's what we are all about.
And with that let me open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Quickie.
I think it's good to see the $200 billion-$250 billion risk-weighted asset reduction expectations.
Just curious what you think the revenue or earnings associated with that are? I think if you look at and you saw the individual books one of the most significant contributors to that reduction of $200 billion to $250 billion is actually something over the last several quarters that we've taken losses on.
I think if you think about the structured credit trading book that's not something where you see significant amounts of income on as well.
So think -- the net of it is while there is some income there are also certain elements of that that have been expensive.
So we really don't see any material level of impact into the income statement from reducing that $200 billion to $250 billion.
Not bad.
I noticed on one of your first slides that long-term debt was down a bunch.
That's in line with I think your previous.
So I was just curious on what your refinancing schedule thought process is for the next say 6 12 months.
What do you need to fund? What don't you? Sure.
The -- I think as you look out we obviously put out a 22 months to funding.
I think it's important even though the mortgage settlement is uncertain that 22 months to funding reflects the payment of the $8.5 billion associated with the mortgage settlement.
We don't know exactly when that happens but we've assumed it will be within the funding window.
What you haven't seen here is we -- in addition to taking down debt we continued to aggressively reduce our short-term debt with the goal of driving our commercial paper balances to 0.
And the last comment I would make there is that the reason the balances continue to remain as high as they are is we're pursuing liquidity to be able to pay off the balance of our TLGP debt at the end of June.
And as you think about issuances I would say that we'll continue to be opportunistic as it relates to getting the debt markets and at the same time we're being very aggressive in looking to generate liquidity through selling parent company assets.
And we'll take our next question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Bruce how much did the long rates hit the hedge component in 1Q? How much -- in the second quarter how much did the hedging component hurt NII and NIM? you mentioned that was a factor.
It was about $300 million John.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So -- and you did use the term trough for the NIM and I guess NII too.
Could you give us your outlook in the near term about where you see the NIM and NII heading? Sure.
I think we would clearly expect -- and let me start with the net interest income.
We would clearly expect net interest income if not at the trough to clearly be pretty close to that.
On the NIM there are 2 comments that I'd make.
The first is the rates that we're seeing with respect to the corporate loans that we've made have not shown any material deterioration so the yields that we're seeing on the asset side continue to hold up.
What I do want to caution you to a little bit is to the extent that we continue to generate the types of liquidity on the deposit side that we are NIM will be affected to the extent that that happens because we're not going to chase long-duration assets that have OCI risk and we're not going to chase assets that we don't feel comfortable with the credit.
So realize that that margin may jump around a little bit depending on exactly how strong our deposit growth is.
And John that -- we've been consistent for several quarters and we actually the last couple of quarters did better than we thought on our reported basis in the net interest income line.
But we still stay consistent where we've been at the -- at troughs in the second quarter third quarter this year and then it ought to come out from there.
Inc.</strong> That's the net interest income Brian you said troughs.
Yes.
The dollars that Bruce talked about.
Inc.</strong> And in NIM Bruce your answer there to summarize on the NIM percentage could bounce around either way give or take depending on what happens in liquidity? I think that's fair.
And once again it's going to be a function of liquidity versus the assets that are available but we're going to be very sensitive to both OCI risk and credit risk with respect to that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So then on Basel III and Brian a question about the capital raise.
You've consistently stated you don't need to raise capital.
Could you again just kind of walk through your reasoning on that? Is that because you've gotten a sense from regulators that a Basel III fast forward is not going to happen and that you'll be allowed to meet the requirements as they're actually phased in? Right.
I think that the sense we get from the world regulatory community is that they've phased in with the phase in and put in purposely when it will be put and install.
But importantly I think -- what I think John we got a lot of people focused on was from here to 2012.
And what I think Bruce was trying to add earlier is beyond '12 there's significant mitigation both on the numerator and denominator side.
So a lot of discussion about how you get from the 7% level to the 9.5% over that course of the 5 6 years people -- the pace at which you move in the first couple of years of that is high because the amount of numerator improve when you get to the DTAs and other things.
So what we try to do to today is to show you that.
But I think -- we believe that we can get to the 7 -- 6½ -- 6.75% to 7% we said by year-end '12 continue to improve well beyond that.
And that takes into account us continuing to make the great improvements and the optimization on both the RWA side and numerator.
And so I -- everything we hear is that's consistent with where we need to go.
The sheer amount of capital we have if you just step back and think about it and compare to where we were 12 months ago or 24 months ago is quite high including both on the ratio side and raw dollars.
So we continue to make improvements.
It make us feel comfortable.
And we got to continue to show you that bridge each quarter as we execute.
Inc.</strong> So there's no pressure to raise capital from regulatory side of things? No.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then Bruce on the January 1 2013 7% goal.
That's assuming you're hitting yourself on the numerator deductions there right? If you didn't have the numerator deductions because those don't start till 2014 do you have a sense of what your Basel III actual number would be as reported and required on January 1 2013? I would think about that number John as being well above 8%.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And that's what you'd actually be reporting when it starts right? That's correct.
Right.
There'd be no numerator deductions.
The way to think about it is that each year as the numerator's deductions are coming in over the pace beginning in '14 and beyond we'll make numerator improvement before that.
And so that's a fully front loaded as if it were 1/1/'19 number this 6.75% and 7.5%.
Inc.</strong> So why you're showing us this lower one of 6.75% to 7% just because the market is asking for it or regulators haven't asked you to fast forward that you're just doing it to show a more conservative number? I think we all basically said if we show you that number that shows you there's -- you don't have to wait for it to come in.
And I think that's the -- the goal there is our peers have all been showing it to you we've been showing it to you so we'll continue to show that.
But I think as we move through each period the reported number will be much higher than that and that's what you pointed out.
So it's not a question of capital adequacy under any standard that we measure because remember the standard at the end of '12 is 3.5%.
So if you think about that in our context you have $100 billion of capital more than the minimum.
So it's not a question of capital adequacy.
We're doing it to show you what the fully phased-in number is so you could compare it against other people.
And we'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Follow-up question on capital.
So risk-weighted assets came down under Basel I by about $40 billion in the quarter.
What was the effective Basel III RWA decline? We don't have an exact number on that Betsy.
What I would say is that in almost all cases the Basel III number is going to be higher than the Basel I number but we don't have that exact number.
Okay.
Because it just looks like your $200 billion to $250 billion RWAs under Basel III on a quarterly basis runs -- comes out at roughly the same amount so.
Yes.
There are some fundamental steps to that Betsy in terms of the -- think it's going from 1% to 2.5% to 3% in the optimization around model developments and way that works on the trading books.
So it will not be as ratable as you may be by dividing it out but it -- but the math works.
It'll come in bigger chunks I think frankly over the next couple 3 quarters as we get these models fully implemented and optimized.
Okay.
So it's back-end loaded not front-end loaded.
No it's more front-end loaded .It'll come a little quicker in the latter part of this year and early part of next year as the models get implemented and then it'll slow down just look around at what we're doing on the asset side.
And then in the first half of '11 obviously you had some asset sales and then you've got your 6.75% to 7% goal by the end of 2012 but I don't see any assets sales in this bucket that you've identified.
So you then -- you've got future mitigation goals where you've got continued asset sales.
So you're just suggesting that if you did assets sales between now and 2012 recognize some gains that would ain't be incremental to the 6.75% to 7%? That's correct.
Okay.
Because you obviously have the opportunity to make some asset sales in the next quarter.
I mean people have been -- and then you're not going to comment on what you're planning on doing.
But if you were to sell anything you would -- obviously that would be incremental.
Okay.
If we sell assets it'd be incremental.
Okay.
And then can you just give us this -- I know you can't talk specifically about the mortgage foreclosure settlement but maybe you can give us a sense as to where you think it is relative to a final conclusion.
Are we likely to get a settlement here in the next quarter or so or is it still touch and go and who knows? What I would say there Betsy is that I think as you all read about this is something that's very fluid and continues to move around.
What I would say is that I think everyone realizes it would be a good thing to get this wrapped up so that people can move forward.
There are obviously a lot of people that are involved with this that need to get to the same place.
What I would say from a financial impact perspective as we look out at and as we understand what's out there with -- kind of ask you to think about 1 or 2 things.
The first is that during the second quarter as we mentioned at the end of June we did provide some litigations litigation reserves during the second quarter to be able to help address any cash-type penalties that would come out of that.
And beyond that we believe that we've got reserves that we can direct towards some of the settlements and we just won't really know the exact amount of that until this is finalized and we see if everyone can get to a common place.
Is there an opportunity for potentially you to settle outside of the whole industry? I'm sorry? Is there any opportunity for you to settle outside of the whole industry? I wouldn't comment on litigation strategy at this point Betsy.
But I think Bruce gave you a sense of what we're trying to accomplish over there [ph].
Okay.
And then lastly on the settlement that you did announce with the consortium.
Clearly the market's seeing some dissents coming in.
Did you expect them? How do you plan to deal with that? And then lastly did you get an IRS opinion on the settlement before you announced it i.e is it going to be -- do you expect it will be deemed to be handled within the REMIC structure of the trust? Okay.
If you look at the agreement we did not get an IRS opinion before the deal was announced.
The deal is obviously subject to that and we have no reason to believe that we wouldn't get that opinion.
As it relates to the reaction from holders I think when we were on the call on the 29th -- this is obviously a unique structure.
The types of challenges and the like that we've seen with -- that are out there were clearly expected by both the Gibbs &amp; Bruns group as well as ourselves.
And the other thing that you've probably seen out there is the work that was done and released that the -- from the trustee and all of the experts that opined and spoke to the work that they've done.
So I think -- the only thing that we'd say is that we obviously did a lot of work and had a lot of smart people around it.
The investor group did the same as did the trustee.
There's a court date that's been set out there for November and we'll continue to see how it progresses forward.
And we'll go next to the side of Paul Miller with FBR.
Hey Brian going back to the first question on the revenue impact of shrinking the risk-weighted assets.
On a separate Investor Day you talked about a normalized number but you couldn't give us -- you couldn't tell us when we're going to get there and that normalized number is roughly in that $200 billion to $250 billion range.
Do you have any update to that normalized number guidance or are you just don't really feel that it's a -- that this lower risk-weighted assets will have a meaningful impact on those numbers neither? When we gave you those numbers we had in it the mitigation that Bruce described earlier on the risk-weighted assets.
As far as an update if you think about -- let's just use in the PPNR guidance that we gave you if you look at what we did this quarter at the time we told you out in more normalized environment we'd be $45 billion to $50 billion $30 billion from the core businesses and 15 from card this quarter we did about $14 billion plus from card which leaves we needed to do obviously around $30 billion $31 billion from the rest.
We did about $20-odd billion from the rest of the businesses leaves us about $8 billion short.
If you think about how we make that up there's really 2 major components.
One is as we said at that day and Paul you're well familiar with as rates rise the benefits of the deposit franchise become a lot more lucrative and then net interest margin will expand back out.
That ought to be worth $3 billion sort of annually.
And then on the cost side in the PPNR number that of $8.5 billion -- $8.7 billion this quarter is still the operating costs for all the mortgage legacy assets which -- and also the elevated costs we're working on our New BAC project.
The operating cost as you saw on one of the slides Bruce has is about $1.7 billion $1.8 billion for Legacy Assets Servicing just this quarter.
That will drop $1 billion plus a quarter easily and then the rest of the cost will come through.
So I think we could -- we'll still see that when you put that together sort of $14 billion-ish $14.5 billion on card plus the need to get the $30 billion on the rest of it to get to the level we talked about.
But if you look at the shortfall there's really 2 major components getting it to work on the cost side and the net interest margin expansion when rates rise.
And you put all it against that then we're obviously projecting more normalize time at little better economy than the growth rates we're seeing now in the GDP.
So we still feel comfortable with that guidance and we still are working towards that and making all the preparations.
The RWA optimization was factored into our thinking there and the reality of that RWA optimization is it's along a bunch of assets that are not core to what we do as a company.
And it's something like the structured credit trading book is not a business that we continue to do in a way that was done at the -- in the '07 '08 timeframe but takes till '13 '14 '15 for it to run off.
So as you think about that I think we're comfortable that -- we are comfortable with the projections that we gave then and I just try to give you a little insights on the PPNR for example the $45 billion to $50 billion how do we get back in that range.
We'll go next to the side of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Question on expenses.
You just gave us a little commentary in terms of what might be coming down and the magnitude but obviously the cost savings opportunity seems quite large.
There has been some talk about reducing the branches by about 10%.
At the end of this year when you're done with your internal work are you going to present to the Street kind of total cost-savings program in terms of dollars and more backup detail? Well yes.
In the third quarter call because we'll finish the work during the third quarter we will have the work that's really on -- think of all the consumer businesses and all the centralized groups that we've done.
And then in the third quarter we start with the G1 Global Commercial Banking business and good GBAM business and we split in half just because of the size of our company and the amount of work.
So we will give you that in the third quarter.
And we're deep into it now.
We've been seeing all the ideas.
We've had the steering committee meetings and going through it and we're very confident as I said earlier that it'll provide great benefits to the company.
And then as you go through initiatives such as this the size of the opportunity what type of macro backdrop do you try and keep in mind? I mean obviously there's a lot of moving pieces on the capital markets on the rate environment.
Do you have kind of a base case that you try and manage for and then provide some flexibility up and down? Yes.
We obviously do.
If you think about how we manage the money -- the company across the last several quarters the environment we've managed into is to try to figure out how to keep the -- leave aside the quarterly expense or my company assessments or things which are more volatile that are hard to predict.
But the core operating expenses core headcount we've been managing it to try to make sure as we deployed assets in places we wanted and we were taking them out of other areas to fund it and so we've been running at about that level.
I'd say that longer term I hope your expectation -- our expectation is the economy will grow faster but the backdrop of this is a -- an economy growth moving towards trend over the next couple of years not at trend tomorrow.
So it's a modest growth environment that the economy keeps grinding along and grinding along and -- but doesn't improve dramatically in the short term but improves over time.
Okay and then separately I think you've addressed most of the capital questions out there.
But just to clarify the targeted capital ratio at the end of next year that would not include any potential gains from CCB.
But what about additional private label losses of up to $5 billion? You've talked about the state attorney general settlement.
Have you factored any of the mortgage hits as well? We -- the -- well the question that Betsy had is what you have in asset sales and things like that.
So I think in embedded in there are our estimates for ongoing costs of litigation and things like normal run rate cost of what our earnings would be over the next quarter.
So it's all in there and when we factor that all then we get to 6.75% to 7%.
And I'd be careful about trying to pluck any piece out and say this piece is in this piece is in but it's -- we factored it all in in terms of our expectations of when litigation costs will come or when asset sales that Betsy talked about will take place if any and how it'll affect it.
So it's in our estimates and we'll tell you that -- we'll give you a quarterly report on how we're improving them and the progress we're making.
Okay.
So just to be clear that's an all-in number including both potential ongoing mortgage costs as well as opportunities to take gains.
In the -- in earnings of franchise and things like that.
And then what we're trying to be clear with you is from '12 out -- and I think because we had such focus on now through '12 because at the time - we spent a lot of time on this early this year was before the SIFI buffer et cetera.
So SIFI city buffer came in but we want to make sure that you're seeing is the opportunities from '13 '14 and out through numerator optimization and denominator work that will help drive us to the next level.
So from now to '12 it's -- it factors in all of the things you just -- we just talked about.
We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Just staying on the capital issue.
I guess the other potential events that could cause a capital raise would relate to funding or rating agencies or CDS spreads.
What are you seeing from those areas? I mean I guess CDS spreads are a fraction of where they were at the crisis peak but they're up from the low.
If rating agencies threaten a downgrade might you have to raise capital? And what I'm really getting to and you talked a lot about it already Brian is just what's your level of conviction that you don't need to raise capital? I'll start.
The level of conviction is given the economic scenarios which are moving along but at a very slow steady -- slow pace is that we don't see it.
From a funding perspective I think if you look Bruce mentioned earlier and I'll let him touch on it that we have driven down short-term funds to a very small amount.
Our plan is to take it really down next to 0.
We've built up tremendous liquidity.
We've -- the ratings of the banks and the broker-dealer are separate.
We can continue to operate the business as if between all the things going on around the world that you could see disruptions in the markets and we continue to watch that carefully.
So Bruce you want to? Yes and I would just add Mike.
I mean a couple of things.
We obviously continue to work with the rating agencies very closely.
I think if you look out at S&amp;P you can see that we had them take a look at the broker-dealer both Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith as well as MLI and they actually notched the broker-dealer up.
So we felt good about that rating.
And the other thing I'd say as it relates to access to capital we obviously put the news of the settlement and released the guidance at the end of June and we went out and raised $2.5 billion in the fixed-income markets at the beginning of July at attractive rates.
So we're very sensitive with the rating agencies.
We continue to work with them closely and we continue to be opportunistic as it relates to accessing the markets.
What about your exposure to the countries in Europe the PIIGS countries? What's your net exposure? What's your gross exposure? Yes.
If you look out at -- in the supplement we put some information out there.
And you can see that the number that we have out there is $16.7 billion.
As you think about that $16.7 billion realized it's been reduced by roughly $1.1 billion due to hedges.
Outside of that $16.7 billion that was reduced by $1.1 billion of hedges we have additional protection that's not factored into that number roughly $1.3 billion -- or excuse me $1.7 billion of CVAs hedges and an additional $3 billion of single-named hedges that we've not reduced those numbers by.
So we were active and early in getting after this exposure starting in the first quarter of 2010.
We've laid out the exposure with the caveats that I've just mentioned.
And while we're very focused and vigilant in watching it and trying to think through what the spillover effects could be as we sit here today we feel very good about where the exposure is.
I mean how much could you lose if things go worse in Europe which could in turn potentially lead to a capital raise? I'm asking you.
Yes.
I think what you have to think through as you think through the exposure there's 3 different kinds of buckets of exposure that we have within the region.
The first is the corporate loan book.
And what I would say is that if you look at the corporate loan book it is largely to large multinational global-leading companies and to the extent that the amounts are above house guidelines in many cases like I said we buy protection.
So the corporate loan book we feel very good about.
If you look at the liquid-traded book we only have one country where we have any meaningful level of sovereign exposure and we have protection that largely offsets that.
And then we have a securities book that's mark-to-market that we mark every day.
So as we look at any meaningful level of losses from where we sit today we just don't see it and clearly we don't see it wherever it lead to there being any kind of capital event.
And then last follow-up for Brian again.
Brian I think what -- I heard you just say we don't see it in this economic scenario.
And if you can provide any more confidence because at the start of the year where -- are you considering the possibility of a dividend increase by the end of the year? And now several investors have asked about the idea of a potential capital raise.
We've kind of gone full circle here.
So just your level of conviction? Can you provide any more comfort -- do you have more confidential information than any of us to have on the call? Well we've given you the improvements we've made in the capital.
And even with the sizable $20 billion charge this quarter that impacted 20 basis points.
So our economic scenario is posted -- is out there.
The scenario that we used to plan against this is the one you see out in the domain which is modest growth and we don't see anything in that.
The challenges we have reserved -- the difference between now and a couple of years ago when people worried about deterioration in the economy when employment obviously rose and think about the reserve levels we have think about the improvements in the portfolios that we have made across that.
So when -- there's lot of discussion about future home risk there-- risk the charge-offs in -- our mortgage portfolios combined between home equity and first residential.
$2.5 billion off that quarter is still an unacceptable level.
But they're down from the peak even while housing prices actually have deteriorated from the time they peak because the quality of the portfolios and the quality of borrowers in the portfolios is different than it was.
So that gives us good step between reserves the capital we built in the quality portfolios to hold us against economic times which are going to bounce around and that's what we've done.
So you see this quarter with a charge of $20 billion we took a 20 basis point hit to ratios and plowed through it.
And we'll go next to the side of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Maybe -- I don't know if you could flesh out the answer a little more as to how you are confident that this quarter or the third quarter the trough in net interest income and what things would kind of lead you to think that that number turns around and starts to grow? A couple of things.
As I'd say -- if you think about the quarter and what we absorbed it was obviously a fairly significant negative effect on hedge income and we clearly would not expect that to happen again given how flat the yield curve is as we look out there.
The second thing that I would say is that we had some runoffs in the corporate book during the second quarter that we wouldn't expect to see again.
So I think as we look at the number absent some meaningful change in the rate environment when we look at both the assets that we have as well as the rates that are applied against them I think that the -- we feel pretty good that we're pretty close to the trough as it relates to net interest income.
And Bruce in that $300 million that you identified in the hedging does that come back or is that the absence of a negative in the future? I don't want to speculate if it comes back or it doesn't but I think you know during the first quarter we had some benefits from hedging.
So the number bounces around but I just want to reiterate that the reason it's there is because we're very sensitive to OCI risk and making sure that as we go out towards Basel III that we don't have any negative effects from OCI.
But I think if you think about it more broadly the -- what's been going on in the last many quarters that we've been trying to make sure people saw is that as you’ve ran off some high-yielding assets which don't have a net profit contribution because the charge-off exceeded yield and that keeps running down that was hurting us.
And then what we -- and the offsets that were grinding down your debt cost and your deposit cost.
The issue now is that the core loan growth is still -- is modest and even backing out the runoff portfolios just because the economic activity is not that strong.
So that is -- that helps and that we're seeing that activity be a little stronger than it was several quarters ago but it's bumping along the deposits.
So we continue to drive down deposit costs and OEM costs of debt by paying off the term debt as someone mentioned earlier.
So we'll be grinding at this.
So the assumption is as we trough out here it'll continue for a while.
It's not going to leap right back up.
So we want to make sure that you guys see it but it's in line with what we've been predicting for 6 quarters that this would be the place where we'd sort of see it bottom out.
But long term it'll -- we'll have to grind from here on both the liability pricing side the debt cost side and also you grind out loan growth slowly but surely.
Yes.
And a separate but somewhat related issue.
As you mentioned $475 million a quarter of impact from Durbin.
Obviously that's less than you thought before potentially.
But can you talk a little bit about your strategies to mitigate that from both from a product and pricing standpoint? Sure.
I think -- usually Durbin gets caught with all the other changes that have gone on as opposed to any of them going back what seems like a long time ago to CARD Act and then Reg E and Durbin and all the pieces.
So we're on the consumer business.
So how do -- how are we mitigating the activity.
If you look what we've been doing as the new account structure has now been rolled out in 3 states for new accounts and then now for all accounts and they're converting the account that is all going very well.
So we'd expect that conversion to take place during 2012.
And what that does is institute some monthly fees and other ways customers can pay us away from overdrafts or frankly devalue the interchange in Durbin.
And so the pricing structure that is set will be set -- is set and will be set to generate the activity.
The good news is that -- reasonably good news is that where we ended up in Durbin is a place where we continue to drive debit usage.
And as you can see from the statistics on the -- on the Card page you can see the payments made through plastic and our franchise continue to grow 5% 6% a year.
You take out the gas prices it's 4% to 5% a year.
Gas price contribute 1.5% to 2% of that.
So we will continue to drive the usage of that which continue to drive the revenue up from a level after the Durbin takes it away.
So it's the account structure.
It's the pricing within that monthly accounts.
It's the charges that you've seen some of us put in across the last several months to make up for some of the fee loss.
But the real benefits that come -- really as we convert the entire account base to new structure in '12 and into '13 and the benefits come in '13 after you're done with the conversions.
And think about this this is all 30 million checking holders going through a conversion or franchise so it's a large conversion and will take place after we finished migrating the deposit platforms together.
So it's going well.
It's having intended outcome both from a dollars and cents basis but also from a customer behaviors basis and we'll continue to drive that.
That all being said the other way that we'll get paid is to have to maintain discipline deposit pricing as short-term rates rise at some -- as the economy improves and that will be credit for us to do.
You've seen our ability to continue to take down deposit pricing and grow deposits and the competitor for customer's deposit money won't be competitive until short-term rates rise quite a bit.
And so if we maintain a deposit price another way to make up for that cost.
And we'll go next to Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Most of my questions were answered but I have one specific question for Bruce.
It's a bit detailed.
And if you look on Page 10 of the supplement which is the liability side of the average balance sheet I'm focused in on your cost of federal funds purchased securities loaned or sold under agreements of repurchase.
That cost this quarter was 159 basis points up from 129 basis points last quarter and 79 basis points a year ago and I'm comparing that to other banks.
I just compared that to J.P.
Morgan for example.
A year ago you actually borrowed on that line for 5 basis points less than J.P.
Morgan did at 79 basis points versus their 84 basis points.
A quarter ago you borrowed for 20 basis points more at 129 versus their 109.
Now you're borrowing for 49 basis points more.
Is there something going on in terms of your ability to borrow in the wholesale markets and that cost rising more rapidly than peers? Or why in your opinion has this line item which is pretty substantial at $338 billion grown from a borrowing cost perspective so much more rapidly than peers? Yes I think we can get back to you with the exact numbers.
I believe Ed that there's a couple of things going on within the numbers.
The first is that some of the hedges are directed towards that.
So as we talked about some of the hedge income and the ineffectiveness you'll see some of that there.
The second thing is we looked out at and we've talked about we're extending within some of our repo books extending the maturities on those repo books as we go forward.
And the third thing is and we can get you the exact number is that during the second quarter within the Markets business is we borrow in Europe for dividend stocks.
Given that the dividends in Europe are paid in the second quarter the borrowing cost typically blips up a little bit in the second quarter for that.
So we can get you the exact numbers but I think those are the 3 things that would contribute to that number.
I mean as I just sort of look at and do net interest margin math this looks -- this increase looks like something that had a -- it was part of the negative impact.
Is this a number you expect to stabilize or come down in future quarters? Or would this trend of rising continue to happen? I think if you think about the 3 things that I've given you we are going to continue to extend repo.
So that piece of it you'd expect.
Clearly with respect to the European stocks that's a seasonal thing in the second quarter as well as the hedging effectiveness.
We would hope that those wouldn't continue.
So I think to answer your question one probably does; 2 don't.
And we'll go next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Two questions for you.
First on the Commercial Bank.
I think you said that CRE declined by about $2.2 billion and then you had some loan growth in Middle Market C&amp;I.
Has the Middle Market C&amp;I loan growth continued as we've gone into the third quarter here? And was the CRE runoff planned or unplanned? Start with the Commercial Real Estate.
I think the -- given both the capital markets as the -- as well as the refinancing markets I would say part of the real estate was planned and part of it quite frankly were assets that were either criticized or nonperformers coming off the books.
So as we look at that Commercial Real Estate number we obviously don't like to see loans going down at the same time that there was some stuff that you would have wanted to come off.
And we feel very good about where the Commercial Real Estate portfolio is now and quite frankly are trying to figure out places to do more commercial real estate where it makes sense.
With respect to the C&amp;I portfolio within the Middle Market that's about $37 billion of the overall Commercial Banking portfolio.
And if you go back and look at that since the second quarter of last year that portfolio is up about 10% and that really is the core guts of the client base that we're very focused on within the Commercial Bank.
I guess the sort of the root of my question is the companies that we've seen report thus far are sort of reporting the glimmers of commercial beginning commercial loan growth.
And I just wanted to see if that was your experience as well or if you can just give us sort of an overall view of where -- whether we're at a growth inflection point yet? I'd say Nancy as you came through the -- from the end of last year and the first part of this year you were seeing David Darnell would say the core Middle Market book the customers were more -- were optimistic and they were starting to grow a little bit.
I think that sort of flattened out a little bit so there's still some growth as we pointed out here.
But if you look at the utilization rates and stuff they've now stabilized.
Again they were at a low probably 31% or 32%.
They're sort of in the 34.5% to 30% range.
They would be in a 43% range in normalized times.
Now people have excess cash but I'd say that as we've gone through the year this year I think that people who are less aggressive -- our clients are less aggressive in the core broad middle market spectrum than they were earlier this year but the loan balances are holding in and growing slightly.
Yes.
Brian and I just have one final question for you.
We've been getting several articles lately about what seems to be a prominent change in the attitude toward homeownership in the U.S.
want to get your opinion on that.
And also just when all is said and done here and whatever year that may happen how do you see the mortgage business as a contributor to the bottom line at BAC? Let me go to the second one first -- Nancy because I think it kind of answers the first one in some respects.
Leave aside the exact dollars and cents but the way we see the Mortgage business and our company going forward is we have 50 million consumer households 30 million have their core banking checking accounts with us et cetera our job is to provide mortgage products to not only our general customers in our Retail and Preferred segment but also our both -- well Global Wealth Management customers in a very strong very focused and very -- in a very fair way.
And that's what we're going to drive to and that's what you expect to see in our Mortgage business going forward.
I think the idea of being in a stand-alone context where we had a wholesale business for example a broker-driven business.
We've gotten out of the -- reverse mortgage we've gotten out of.
We continue to shape our yield what the correspondent business looks like.
But a -- the business that will be in it will be a strong direct to consumer -- direct-to-retail direct-to-the-consumer mortgage business and that's where we're moving Barbara and the team and moving the business to.
That actually fits into the capital demands of MSR and other things as you could well figure out.
So that's how we're going to run the business for the benefit of our customers as if -- as the same way we're running all our business making sure every ounce of our capital is used to support the core customer base and frankly to do the mortgage product very well for that customer base.
When you back into the broader context I think the homeownership discussion is a policy discussion I'd leave to policymakers.
But as you look at our customers and listen to them and watch what they've gone through I think that the people in the world my children's age are going to think differently about homeownership in terms of the value of it and how it factors into their thinking because of what they've seen going on around them.
And I think that that's just the reality where we're in.
Doesn't mean it's good or bad it's just the reality.
And I think with the population growth dynamics and things like that in the United States I think that that's going to be the reality of a more sober society on this.
And I think our jobs are to buy products into that and help people become homeowners because it's ultimately something they may aspire to but do it the right way.
And due to the time we will take our final question from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Yes.
When you look at the trading results on Page 26 of the supplement it looks like your total trading profits this quarter were almost exactly in line with the trailing 4 quarter average.
And so I'm curious -- what you're -- is this the new normal or do you still view this as a depressed trading environment? And then what's the outlook for this business? And if the revenues remain at this level that they've been in is the expense side of that business properly structured then? I'd say that -- I'd still say we're probably below normal right now in the minds of Tom and the team running it.
The -- and so I think that you won't see what you saw say in the first quarter of last year and things like that.
That was above -- way above normal.
We tried to talk about -- we've talked about sort of $4.5 billion range that -- in total revenue which includes this plus the margin and other things.
But -- so I think that that's -- I think we're still below the normal.
The question is unless you see the improvement back to normal we will have to continue to work on the expense.
And in fact that's what Tom has been doing.
If you look at our business the headcount that he's had has been relatively flat.
But -- we've done is deployed to -- in international space for example -- obviously Asia being key component where from a research side we've got strong Asia-wide research ratings Japan #1 rating things like that.
So we deployed resources there to help our teams sales people to cover the clients.
At the same time the total deployed resources headcount has been flattish and we've been taking it out of places where the opportunities aren't as big.
So you ought to expect us to continue to manage the business that way.
In the aggregate this is a little below normal.
If it doesn't get above normal then the cost structure come down but -- and the comp structure is one of the quick ways to adjust it but ultimately you got to keep factoring that in.
At this time I'd like to turn it back over to Mr.
Brian Moynihan for closing comments.
Thank you for your attention and we look forward to talking to you in October.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Stitt.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions changes in interest rates competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses.
For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian Hi.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported net income of $6.2 billion or $0.56 a share after preferred dividends.
There were a lot of moving parts that impacted numbers and we'll get to those through the discussion here.
In addition our earnings benefited from our own credit spreads widening.
It related to fair -- positive fair value adjustments and DVA gains.
Those items Bruce will cover along with the other significant items in the rest of the presentation.
Our core revenues continued to be adversely impacted by a challenging environment as low interest rates and the European debt crisis persist.
It is especially evident in our fixed income trading results for the quarter.
As we think about the third quarter I think of 3 core areas.
One of the areas is the continuation of the master strategic repositioning of our franchise.
Another of the areas is the core operating platforms progress that we made in the quarter in each line of business.
And the third area is the focus on the slow economy and its impact on how we're going to run the company going forward.
So let's first talk about the first area the strategic transformation of the company.
During the quarter we made steady progress repositioning our business to focus on our core customers and clients.
We finalized the reconfiguration of our Credit Card business that we began in 2009 to focus solely on U.S.
core credit card customers exiting non-U.S.
portfolios such as Spain and Canada and now exited the U.K.
We also sold off some of the financial institutions platforms in the United States which enabled competitors to offer cards to compete against us.
In our mortgage area we've exited our correspondent previously exited our wholesale channels which when you put all together focuses solely on a direct-to-retail channel.
This is a position which enables to serve our core customer base and do it on a basis consistent with driving our franchise.
In addition to repositioning those businesses we've taken all our consumer businesses from our core consumer business through our Wealth Management businesses and put them under our new co -- one of our co-CEOs David Darnell to drive those businesses on a customer and client-focus basis.
During the quarter we also sold half our interest in CCB lowered our private equity investment substantially and made further progress on noncore assets dispositions.
As we move from a strategic transformation of the company to the line of the business we continue to see momentum in our core lines of businesses.
We extended approximately $141 billion in credit for the third quarter.
Our average deposits continue to grow.
Our average commercial loans increased in all our regions although our consumer loans are still declining mainly in the noncore areas.
Our net checking accounts grew for the third consecutive quarter and attrition remains low.
We're seeing good progress with initiatives to grow through adding financial services advisers in our branches and Small Business Bankers in our broad consumer areas.
We're seeing steady progress in our Wealth Management businesses U.S.
Trust and Merrill Lynch where we continue to add advisors and push forward in these market leading areas.
We continue to see solid performance on our commercial and corporate lending businesses including Global Commercial Banking and Global Corporate Investment Bank.
In addition we retained our second place position in investment banking and produced solid international customer growth in that area.
Our credit quality and delinquencies continue to improve while reserve coverage remains at high levels.
As we think about the third area we're focused on how to manage in a slow or long-term recovery we're doing everything we can to continue repositioning the earnings of our company as we look forward.
We continue to focus on driving growth in select areas very select areas but we're also focused on reducing expenses.
Expenses remain elevated in large part due to nearly $2 billion in quarterly operating expenses at Legacy Asset Servicing.
We hit our peak and headcount in July across the entire company and are now managing down across all areas.
LAS is at its peak staffing level showed more of that overall staffing reduction should come through the bottom line.
Our New BAC efficiency initiative is making progress.
During the quarter we completed a Phase 1 evaluation and now we're implementing and you'll see the results as we come through the fourth quarter.
The Phase 2 evaluation begins this month and it will bear strong fruit.
With that let me turn it over to Bruce to go through the financials.
Thanks Brian.
And good morning everyone.
If I can ask you to flip to Page 5 and we'll start on the income statement.
As Brian referenced we made $6.2 billion for the quarter or $0.56 a share and these numbers were affected by several significant items that I'll walk you through and go through in more detail as we get into the presentation.
The quarter did include a credit mark on structured liabilities under fair value option that resulted in a positive mark of $4.5 billion as a result of our credit spreads widening and as you look at our financials you'll see that in other income.
Keep in mind that mark whether it be positive or negative does not impact regulatory capital ratios such as Tier 1 common but does affect GAAP capital.
The widening of our credit spreads also generated a DVA gain of $1.7 billion related to our trading liabilities within our Global Banking and Markets business and I'll get into more detail on that later in the presentation.
Our equity investments had a net $1.4 billion in gains driven primarily by 2 sale transactions and a write-down.
As Brian referenced we did sell half of our investments in CCB for $8.3 billion in proceeds.
That generated a pretax gain of $3.6 billion.
X our sale of China Construction Bank equity investments would have been a negative $2.2 billion.
As we move to net interest income we had 2 areas that negatively affected net interest income.
The first was hedge ineffectiveness a negative $600 million as well as a negative $400 million associated with the acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities during the quarter.
If we move down to the income tax expense line it reflects a charge of $782 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets in our U.K.
business that we mentioned last quarter as a result of the July enactment of a 2% reduction in the U.K.
corporate tax rate.
If we take the other items on this page and add both the positives and the negatives the other adjustments totaled a loss of $800 million and I'll touch on these different aspects as we get through the presentation.
If you flip to Page 6 and look at the balance sheet you can see that assets are down Q2 to Q3 while deposits grew moderately during the quarter.
Other items I would point to in the quarter you saw a $33 billion reduction in risk weighted assets that contributed to the improvement in our Tier 1 common ratio.
We reduced long-term debt by approximately $28 billion and as we look at tangible book value per common share that increased $0.57 to $13.22 at the end of the third quarter.
Asset quality continues to be very strong.
Our allowance at the end of the quarter was approximately $35 billion which is roughly 3.8% of total loans 1.74x annualized charge-offs and we saw $1 billion reduction in our nonperforming loans and leases.
If we flip to Page 7 and look at funding and liquidity as we've talked about over the last couple of quarters we continue to proactively reduce both our short-term and our long-term debt.
During the third quarter we reduced short-term unsecured borrowings by approximately $15 billion to immaterial amounts at both the parent and the broker-dealer as we repaid our commercial paper and eliminated the master notes program at the broker-dealer.
In addition to the reductions in short-term debt long-term debt also came down by approximately $28 billion as maturities continue to outpace issuances.
These reductions of $43 billion were the primary drivers of the $39 billion decline in our excess liquidity sources to $363 billion.
When you think about that $363 billion unlike others realized debt does not include approximately $194 billion in additional liquidity that's available to our banking entities via pledging assets to the Home Loan Banks in the Fed discount window.
As we think about time-to-required funding at the parent it increased to 27 months during the quarter from 22 months at the end of the second quarter as we generated substantial parent-company liquidity and debt maturities after 2012 or lower.
As I think everyone is aware Moody's downgraded our credit ratings late in the third quarter based on their beliefs around potential government support.
We obviously disagree with those actions in that we believe that their views of unsupported credit ratings do not sufficiently reflect the significant progress we've made improving our capital and liquidity positions shedding legacy and noncore assets and managing our risk down.
That being said we had worked hard over the course of the last 9 months to be prepared to the extent that we did receive a downgrade and feel very good about the way that we minimized the potential impact.
Most importantly since the downgrade we have not seen any change in our global excess liquidity sources.
Moving to Slide 8 and looking at net interest income.
As we've spoken about before and as we think about getting ready for Basel III we're obviously very focused on managing interest rate risk across the company and minimizing OCI exposure in higher-rate environments and managing the duration of our securities given the low level of rates.
On an FTE basis net interest income was down approximately $754 million for the quarter.
That decrease was driven primarily by 2 factors.
Asset hedge ineffectiveness of $400 million and the acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities of $500 million due to the faster prepayment expectations on mortgage securities.
Importantly if we back out these 2 adjustments our net interest income was actually up as the positive contributions to net interest income from lower debt balances as well as reductions in our rates paid on deposits more than offset the reductions that we saw from consumer balances and yields.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter and we assume that rates stayed within that same range that they are today we would not expect to see any meaningful impact on net interest income due to asset hedge ineffectiveness or premium adjustments.
I'm going to move through Slide 9 quickly which just reflects the divergence that we've seen within our commercial -- or excuse me our Consumer Real Estate Services business from the balance of our businesses and get to the actual segments themselves on Slide 10.
If you look at Slide 10 you can see that the Deposits business had net income of $276 million which was down $148 million from the prior quarter driven principally by lower net interest income which was partially offset by increases in our noninterest or fee income category.
Average deposits are up significantly from the third quarter of 2010 and down very modestly at 1% due to seasonal reasons from the second quarter of 2011.
As I mentioned before the rates paid on our consumer deposits declined from 29 basis points during the second quarter of this year to 25 basis points in the third quarter.
Importantly this was a third consecutive quarter where we saw positive net new checking accounts during the quarter.
We move to our Cards Services business.
The Cards Services business generated net income of $1.3 billion during the quarter which was down about $675 million from the second quarter due primarily to higher provision expense and lower revenues which were partially offset by declines in noninterest expense.
The decline quarter-over-quarter in net revenues was driven by the portfolio sales that we accomplished in the second quarter and realized gains from those as well as the NII impact from lower yields and loan balances.
As we look at provision provision did increase by $735 million from the quarter.
I think it's important to note that we actually saw charge-offs decline $403 million or 17% and that was more than offset by lower reserve releases of approximately $1.1 billion.
Importantly despite some of what we've seen out in the economy we've continued to see very strong credit performance within our Cards Services business and we show you here that the different delinquency categories continue to improve Q2 to Q3.
From a low-level balance perspective average loans did decline by about $3.8 million -- excuse me $3.8 billion quarter-over-quarter due principally to higher payments charge-offs portfolio divestitures and the run-off of the noncore portfolios that we've spoken about before.
The actual core portfolio was up very modestly during the quarter.
As you think about purchase volumes if we adjust for our portfolio divestitures card purchase volume was up 5% from the third quarter of last year.
The last point I would make on this page is that we have continued to see growth within the new card area with new card accounts growing 17%.
As we leave this page I do want to note though that the sale as you look at this data that the sale of the Canadian Card business and with the intention to market the European Card business that the results of those 2 areas have been removed from this data and moved to all other and the prior period results were restated to reflect that.
Just to remind you with the sale of our Canadian Credit Card business which has about $8 billion in receivables we would expect that sale to close during the fourth quarter of this year.
The impact of that on Tier 1 common intangible common equity will be positive when the transaction closes.
If we move to the Global Wealth and Investment Management area net income of $347 million during the quarter was down $159 million from the second quarter of '11 as lower revenue and as we faced -- or had lower revenue and higher credit costs.
On the revenue side the decline in revenues was due to lower interest rates and lower transactional revenue but importantly was partially offset by Record Asset Management fees driven by continued inflows into long-term assets under management.
The decline in client balances during the quarter was driven almost entirely by lower market levels in the stock market.
As we look at Deposits Deposits were basically flat during the quarter despite the fact that we reduced the overall rates paid on our GWIM deposits by 7 basis points during the quarter.
Lastly this was the 9th consecutive quarter that we saw increases in client facing associates and we added a net 475 financial advisers during the quarter.
Moving to Slide 13 in Commercial Banking.
Net income for the quarter was down $331 million to $1.50 billion primarily due to lower loan loss reserves and some small revenue declines.
The revenue declines were due to lower net interest income as well as the absence of a gain on the settlement of a portfolio that we saw during the second quarter.
Importantly expenses were down quarter-over-quarter as the business continues to manage costs tightly.
And also during the quarter we saw a fairly significant increase in average deposits as they grew by $7.4 billion quarter-over-quarter.
Loans were generally flat during the quarter.
We saw continued decreases in our Commercial Real Estate.
Commercial and Industrial loans were generally flat and we saw auto loans increase by about $1.2 billion.
The last point I would make within the commercial sector is that we do continue to see very strong credit quality.
Our reservable credit size exposure declined from $27 billion at the end of the second quarter to $22.8 billion at the end of the third and our nonperformers declined from $7.6 billion -- or excuse me $7.4 billion to $6.6 billion during the quarter.
If we flip to Slide 14 in our Global Banking and Markets area.
You can see that the results reflected a loss of $302 million driven by decreased sales and trading activity lower Investment Banking fees and the U.K.
tax rate change during the quarter that I referenced in my opening remarks partially offset by our DVA gains.
As you look at the sales and trading revenues you can see that they declined to $2.8 billion a $1 billion decline from the second quarter primarily driven by our FICC business due to the adverse market conditions that we saw during the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier our results included DVA gains of $1.7 billion in the quarter as our credit spreads widened throughout the quarter versus gains of $121 million in the second quarter of the year.
As you look at the individual components within our FICC business and if we back out DVA what we saw was a relatively strong performance by our rates and currencies business that was down 14% quarter-over-quarter while we had small losses in our structured credit trading certain other credit trading and our fair value option loan book.
Also keep in mind during the third quarter as a result of winding down our proprietary trading business revenue in that business decreased from $434 million in the first half of this year to 0 in the third quarter.
If we move from FICC to the equities business and once again back out DVA cash equities performed relatively well being down only 7% quarter-over-quarter while the primary declines in our equities business were due to equity derivatives.
If we move from the sales and trading to the banking side of the business Firmwide investment banking fees excluding self-led deals were $942 million down 44% from what was a very strong second quarter due to both market uncertainty as well as declined in global fee pools.
That being said I think it's important to note that we did maintain our #2 ranking globally in that investment banking fees.
If we move to loans and deposits loan balances did increase nicely by $10.7 billion during the quarter driven primarily by growth in domestic and international corporate loans and international trade finance.
Average deposit balances were up 4% to $121 billion as corporate clients continue to increase liquidity in an uncertain market environment.
We continue to chip away at our legacy positions those declined 3% to $16.6 billion led by reductions in auction rate securities as well as CDOs.
We also saw a significant declines in our VaR during the quarter.
Our daily average trading VaR once again 3 year at the 99% confidence interval was down $65 billion -- or excuse me $65 million on a linked-quarter basis.
If we move to Slide 15 I want to highlight here how our mortgage model is changing.
As we all know Countrywide had a large scale platform that allowed for high volumes of origination but the mortgage market has declined and we're obviously being required to hold much more capital against our MSR asset.
As many of you have seen we recently announced our plan to exit of the correspondent Mortgage business which we would expect to complete by the end of the year.
This business is clearly not consistent with the focus on our core customers and will require us to carry the MSR assets on an unleveraged basis under proposed Basel III capital requirements.
By exiting we will not add to the MSR and importantly over time the current MSR asset associated with the correspondent business will run off.
Also during the quarter we sold certain pieces of our MSR and we would expect to continue to do so going forward.
Within Legacy Asset Servicing our operating costs remain high.
That being said we did see a 6% decline in the size of our portfolio within legacy asset during the -- from the second quarter to the third quarter and we're obviously working hard to continue to reduce that.
Importantly the focus within the Mortgage business will be to be the secured lender of choice with our customers while continuing to manage down expenses to deliver on this goal.
If we flip to Page 16 and look at the Consumer Real Estate Services business.
I'm going to ask you to focus on the right side of the results given the large number of adjustments that we saw during the second quarter of this year.
On an adjusted basis you can see that from the 2 quarters that the net loss improved from $953 million in the second quarter to $601 million in the third quarter primarily due to lower credit loss provision as well as improved net interest income partially offset by less favorable MSR hedging results.
Home Loans did produced a modest profit in the quarter while the Legacy Asset Servicing side recorded a loss from elevated expenses.
As we look at production income first mortgage production was down 18% due to primarily to us shrinking and ultimately getting out of the correspondent and wholesale areas.
Importantly our core production income was flat relative to the second quarter as improved margins more than offset lower lock volumes.
You can see in the bottom left as far as the selected charges reps and warrants were $278 million for the quarter litigation of $290 million and assessments and waivers of $350 million.
If we spend a minute on the MSR during the quarter you can see the MSR asset decreased significantly from $12.4 billion to $7.9 billion due primarily to declines in interest rates.
And you can see the cap rate on that asset went from 78 basis points at the end of the second quarter to 52 basis points at the end of the third quarter.
A couple of pieces of sequential data on Page 17 as we look at the Legacy Asset Servicing area.
You can see that our 60-plus delinquent first mortgages declined 4% from roughly $1.211 million to $1.158 million.
Our pretax loss x notable items improved from a loss of $2.2 billion to $1.4 billion due primarily to the higher net interest income as well as lower provisions.
The other point here is that we have had to add several thousand people to satisfy our obligations to do the mortgaging and with some of the regulations that we're seeing in that area.
On Page 18 all other total revenue of $6.3 billion you can see in the middle of the page that revenue was primarily driven by the fair value adjustment on our structured liabilities the gains on our sales of debt securities as well as equity investment income.
One of the things that I do want to highlight during the quarter that we accomplished you can see that our Global Principal Investments area which was primarily the legacy private equity portfolio was reduced from $10.8 billion to $6.9 billion.
And as you look at our total equity investment exposure it came down by roughly 40% during the quarter from $44 billion to just under $27 billion which clearly should look to minimize some of the volatility going forward.
And once again just want to highlight that the Canadian Card and the U.K.
Card business had been moved to this segment during the quarter.
From an expense perspective on Slide 19 you can see noninterest expense decreased from $22.9 billion to $17.6 billion during the quarter.
And if you look to back out our mortgage-related items during the quarter we still saw a nice decline in our expense base Q2 to Q3.
If we look at headcount while headcount was up very modestly from Q2 to Q3 it does not pick up 2 000 people that we've notified that will be leaving the company and are still in that number.
And obviously as we go into the fourth quarter and we look to execute on New BAC we look to make continued progress on that front.
As we think about New BAC on Slide 20 let me just spend a minute on this.
Obviously as we've gone through the low rate environment unemployment where it is an economy that's not growing at the like -- at the pace that we would like it does provide some headwinds from a revenue perspective.
The one lever that we obviously have to offset that is the expense side.
And as Brian referenced in his opening remarks we're in the process of completing our initial planning related to Phase 1 of New BAC and we'll move into the second phase of New BAC later this month.
As we talked about in the presentation a few weeks ago we completed 6 mergers over the last 5 years.
That added approximately 150 000 new associates.
This growth in our expense base obviously provides a lot of opportunities to streamline and reduce costs going forward.
That why New BAC makes sense and why it's attainable.
To summarize what we detailed for New BAC in September we divided our expenses into 2 categories controllable costs and other direct costs.
In Phase 1 we're focusing on our consumer businesses along with small business banking tech and ops and support areas.
Based on our analysis we have a goal to achieve $5 billion in cost savings or about 18% of the expenses associated with these areas.
As I said our Phase 2 evaluations began this month and we expect to complete them in April of next year.
As you look at Phase 2 be careful to extrapolate what we believe will accomplish in Phase 1 to Phase 2 because the headcount in Phase 2 is about 50% of Phase 1 and some of the businesses in Phase 2 already have low efficiency ratios such as the commercial banks.
We'll obviously update you on Phase 2 during the first part of next year.
If we move down to page of the expenses that relate to sold our liquidating businesses our goal is to obviously wind those down over time.
And finally in other expenses most of these are fixed although we expect to bring down merger charges and expect to work towards goals of reducing litigation settlement-related costs and waivers and assessments over the next few years.
If we move from the businesses to credit and the trends that we've seen in credit.
As we look at consumer credit trends on Slide 21 we continue to be very pleased with the progress that we're making.
If you look at consumer credit trends quarter-over-quarter you can see continued declines in net charge-offs 30-plus performing delinquencies as well as our nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties.
You can also see that provision expense was roughly $3.5 billion for the quarter and included roughly $1 billion of loan loss reserves.
Our allowance for the consumer businesses was over $30 billion at the end of the third quarter 4.9% of total loans and 1.7x our annualized charge-offs.
The last point on consumer credit that I would make is that this is the first time in several quarters where we've not had evaluation reserves for our purchase credit impaired portfolios.
Flipping quickly to Slide 22 you can see that our 30-plus performing past dues in residential mortgages continue to decline during the third quarter and our Home Equity was roughly flat.
On Slide 23 we highlight our nonperformers in both residential mortgage and Home Equity improved modestly during the quarter.
On Slide 24 as we get to our commercial credit trends credit continue to perform very well within the commercial books.
We had nice declines in our nonperformers as well as our reservable criticized.
Our total provision which was a benefit of $59 million included a reserve reduction of $670 million during the quarter.
And once again on the commercial side roughly $4.8 billion of an allowance 1.6% of coverage of assets and just under 2x annualized charge-offs.
Moving from credit to capital.
You can see here we show our Tier 1 common equity and Tier 1 capital ratios and the progression and progress that we've made.
Importantly we increased each of these measures by between 45 and 50 basis points during the quarter.
And as you think about these numbers realize that they are now higher than where we were at the end of the first quarter before we took the roughly $20 billion in charges that we took during the second quarter.
In addition to building our common equity these ratios also benefited from reductions in risk weighted assets of about 2.4% or $33 billion during the quarter.
Flipping to Slide 26 we show both tangible common equity and tangible book.
They were both up nicely during the quarter in part due to the positive fair value marks which I do want to remind people can reverse themselves when spreads tighten.
The tangible common equity ratio did close the quarter at 6.25% up 38 basis points and tangible book of $13.22 was up $0.57 or 5%.
The tangible book value also reflects the impact of the drop in the market value of the CCB shares that we hold as of the end of the third quarter of this year.
The last comment I would make is the progress that we continue to make as we look to move and meet our objectives on Basel III.
You'll recall during the last quarter we gave guidance that we had a target of reduction of risk weighted assets on Basel III of $200 billion to $250 billion.
As we looked and got through the quarter we've now identified all of the assets that we need to move or mitigate to accomplish that.
And during the quarter we worked through more than half of those reductions during the third quarter.
And as a result of that we continue to be very comfortable with our phased-in -- our fully phased-in guidance of 6.75% to 7% at the end of 2012 -- yes excuse me at the end of 2012.
And with that we'd like to go ahead and open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Glenn Schorr from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Curious inside your commentary in NIM compression.
How much is the securities book at the Investment Banking impacting that on a quarterly basis? It's really not much at all.
If you look at what's in the investment bank it's flattish.
So it's really the 2 items that I highlighted Glenn.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Cool.
And then maybe just to comment it's been kind of quiet on both the foreclosure settlement front and the private label putback cases.
I think we're due any day now to hear about the status on a judgment on the MBIA case.
I wonder if you can update there's 3 different pieces there and I think they're weighing very heavily on investors' minds.
So I'm wondering if you could give us any update there? Sure.
I think if we start with the MBIA case.
You obviously have read what we've read that there were presentations made I guess it's been several weeks now and we continue to wait for and get feedback on that.
I think one of the important things that we need to mention as we think about MBIA this is obviously the case that they're bringing in and talking to us about reps and warrants.
And as you look within our numbers you can see that there are significant counterparty that we believe at this point owe us a fair bit of money and we've marked -- that's marked pretty heavily within our books.
As you think about the Attorney General-DOJ settlement which you've seen obviously there continues to be a lot of noise and a lot of discussions on that.
But there's really not much new to report from our perspective on that.
And then as you think about the mortgage putbacks I guess quiet is a relative term but I think obviously the big piece and what everyone is still waiting to hear back is to some of the different presentations and objections that have been made on the Gibbs &amp; Bruns case.
And I'd say at this point you know as much as we do on that front as well.
Research Division</strong> On the putbacks themselves if you look at -- excuse me if you look at the -- it's kind of leveled off at this high pace so it's good that they're not picking up.
Has the FHA got more involved or are they putting back loans? And are they increasing the dialogue? Because it seems that way in certain spots.
Yes I think if you look at our numbers and the claims you're really not seeing anything from FHA materially reflected in those claims.
And you continue to -- obviously you see some of the same noise about some of the discussions on FHA putbacks.
But it's not something that's been material within the numbers we've shown.
Research Division</strong> Okay last one quickie.
In the Home Equity book can you give us a bigger than a breadbox-type number on how much of the book is interest only or due to start amortizing principal soon? Why don't we get back to you with that exact number.
I think clearly a chunk of it starts in the 2013 2014 timeframe but why don't we get back to you [indiscernible].
And we'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First just to clarify in the net interest income and NIM outlook.
I think if I heard you correctly if rates stay where they are right now do you expect the NIM or net interest income dollars to be relatively stable in 4Q? We would clearly with the assumptions that you just gave we would expect the net interest income to migrate back towards the second quarter level that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's actually up versus the reported 2Q -- or 3Q level because you don't have the onetime hits from hedging or amortization? That's correct.
And we obviously as I talked about in the funding and liquidity continue to reduce the debt footprint that we have which provides us a benefit as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then separately as we think about the cost savings program or the Phase 1 that will generate about $5 billion of savings you did mention some severance and tech charges in the release.
And I was just wondering if you have an estimate of what those might be and the timing of that? Yes I think let me put that in 2 different buckets.
The first is from the technology perspective.
We're continuing to work through that.
But clearly the goal and what we're trying to do is to basically fund the tech and ops spending that we have within the context of the tech and ops run rate that you see in the numbers today.
So the goal as we think about those numbers will be to fund it within the context of the spending that you're seeing within the numbers here today.
As it relates to severance and the disclosure we put out there within the numbers that we reported this quarter there was roughly $145 million of severance that we saw for activities as it related to employees that were more normal course.
And I think as you look forward we're obviously continuing to work through the final implementations or the final implementation schedule.
But from a severance perspective I don't think you're going to see any big lump.
It's going to be more you're going to see it as we work through and make certain decision with respect to certain actions.
Matt just to back up the ideas in Phase 1 I think 25% 30% of them had technology aspects to them in order to be.
So there's a significant amount of non-technology effort there and we will prioritize the non-technology to move it forward because the technology not only cost money and we'll do it within the run rate we have now but secondly it also takes time.
So we're working on the implementation schedule but the numbers that we quoted will be the impacts that we'll achieve in the savings net of the current run rate and technology that we have today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly it might be too really for you to comment on it but there was an article in the Wall Street Journal today talking about a potential agreement in which banks would reduce the mortgage-related for borrowers that are underwater but still current.
I'm just wondering if you had thoughts on that from a big picture point of view and any numbers on how it might impact you? We have no comment on it at this one.
And we'll take our next question from the side of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification on the NII.
Bruce is your outlook that that could be back to the second quarter level because you're changing your strategy around the hedging of the NII and the OCI? Are you lightening up on what you're doing in the hedging or...
No.
It's not that we're changing the way that we're hedging at all.
It's really as you think about the 2 numbers it's the absence of the ineffectiveness as well as the prepays that we wouldn't expect to repeat itself in the -- during the fourth quarter.
I think importantly if you think about where we are now and you just used the 10-year treasury as a reference point at the end of September the 10-year was at 1.90% and it's been bouncing around between 2.10% and 2.25% over the course of the last week.
So think about those as the benchmarks as we made these comments.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you talking about the net interest income and the margin percent or were you referencing one of the other when you talk about going back to the second quarter level? Dollars.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on trading.
Given the trading and FICC particularly was so bad this quarter can you comment on how you're doing so far in the fourth quarter on trading? Have you seen things improve? Yes I mean I think as you'd expect it if you think about months that we had during the third quarter July while clearly not at what we have seen during the early part of the year July was a reasonably good month in the quarter.
Obviously the volatility in the credit markets were particularly challenging in August and September.
And what I would say is as we look at October to date I would say October has been a fair bit better than what we would have seen in the August and September months.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the AG settlement the discussions about what was -- I felt like last quarter you mentioned that you were trying to build reserves for that.
Obviously no one knows what's going to come out of it but in terms of any financial penalties that comes have you tried to contemplate some reserve building for that? I think as we said when we took our charges in the second quarter we did put up some reserves for that.
There's really been nothing firm that has come out during the third relative to the second quarter.
So those reserves for that item on the books of the third quarter are the same as they were at the end of the second.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that shows up in your litigation reserves and we don't know the balance of that is that correct? That's correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the final thing was on the assessments and waivers those went down this quarter.
Those have to do with foreclosure delays.
What's the driver of that and why did they get better this quarter? And what do you see for the next couple of quarters on that line? Yes.
I think that that number is obviously fluid.
If you go back we took $230 million during the fourth quarter given that we had a sense that they were coming.
And if we just go back and look we had $550 million down to $485 million.
So we're seeing it trending down.
And obviously as we get through the foreclosure pipeline quicker we would expect that to continue to decline.
So looking forward we clearly expect the fourth quarter to be better than the third quarter as we look forward.
And it's just that you can never predict exactly where you're going to be given we don't have perfect visibility to when foreclosures happen.
But clearly we'd expect the fourth quarter to be better than the third.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final thing for me was just on the GSE putback behavior.
You mentioned that the behavior continues to change.
I assumed this is Fannie Mae since you're kind of done it at least on the Countrywide side with Freddie.
What's been changing about the behavior? And why is it tough to predict from here? Yes I would just make a couple of comments.
I think that what we've seen is that they have thrown over the wall some vintages in amounts in vintages that are older than what we've seen.
Unlike many others we have certain contract with Fannie that speaks to a normal course of doing business and we'll obviously process and push through those that we think that were due and fight those that we don't think are due based on the contract we have with them.
And we'll take our next question from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping just to ask a broad question of pre-pre pretax pre-provision expectation.
Originally I think we're talking about $40 billion to $45 billion a year would be in a possible range.
A lot of things have changed since then we've had a lot of divestitures.
I guess how do you think about pre-pre the level this quarter versus where you can get to and how do you get there? I think keep in broad strokes that when we talk about we were talking about an environment where that we all thought would happen over the next couple of years where we could get back to a normalized -- more normal Fed funds rate of 1.5% 2% at least.
You would see interest rate structure moves and that obviously still has a heavy impact on us and the Fed has made it clear they're going to keep it there for a couple of years.
And that the second element is in this quarter we're down because as someone point out earlier the trading business was down and that at the margin cost us a lot of PPNR.
When you think about how we move forward the key there now is going to be is revenues are going to be more subdued as to get more cost out and we've outlined what we're doing in the New BAC and other matters to get there.
And I think you'll see that play out as we go quarter-by-quarter here.
The other thing that you pointed out is the PPNR contribution the Card business was obviously high in that math and we're selling part of that.
The net profit of that is lower but it will have an impact on the PPNR.
So as we sort of go through this quarter and get to look at it we'll share with you an update on that probably in the first quarter of next year along with the fourth quarter results.
But think of the way we get there broadly as a more normalized interest rate environment for several billion dollars a year.
The cost take out just Legacy Asset Services being almost $2 billion a quarter now.
And operating cost not the charges or assessment just pure operating costs.
And that coming out and then the rest of the cost structure and then how that gets us there.
Offsetting we got Durbin still to come and a few other things and then some of the divestitures.
And we'll take our next question from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So yesterday a competitor highlighted that they were seeing some signs of troubles in TDRs.
So I was hoping you could maybe give some color on what you guys are seeing in these credits and what's your view of mods? TDRs on the consumer side or on the commercial side? Research Division</strong> In mortgage consumer.
I did not see the specific reference but we've not seen any issue with respect to TDRs quite frankly either on the commercial or the consumer side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe can we get a little more color on the FICC results x DVA.
Clearly it was weak and you highlighted some weakness in structured and credit but maybe we could dig in a little bit more? Was there a big headwind from inventory marks? And quarter-over-quarter what sort of percentage change in the flow business did you guys see? Let me -- let's start back from the broad perspective I'll let Bruce take you through some of the numbers.
But if you think about the last time we had -- last year second quarter we had sort of an outsize move in terms of FICC versus the competition.
And largely remember that we have a very strong business in the origination side the leverage finance side the capital market side which then helps feed our business and that business freezes up when the market freezes up.
So we had a freeze up in the second quarter 2010 when Europe was going and Greece was going a little bit sideways and then it happened again in August and September.
That being said the team did a good job of managing the risk kept the risk down and Bruce will take you through some of the numbers.
But we did have some marks and moving some positions and things like that.
But overall they ended up making some money.
But overall the job is to stay out of the way of risk and they did a good job of managing that.
So Bruce can take you through the details but remember because our heavy issuer side business and in the leverage finance and other areas this is a business when it slows down we lose a fair amount of revenue not only from origination side and capital markets but also as it plays through the trading platform.
Bruce? Yes.
I think that the first thing I would say as I referenced that the rates and currency business on a relative basis performed better than the others.
And if you look through the individual categories within the fixed income business whether it be Structured Credit Trading whether it be our Credit Trading business whether it be our Mortgage business and then the other thing that we have that's a little bit different than our competitors is that we have our fair value option loan book that also shows up in the fixed income area.
You would have seen all of those 4 areas get beat up a little bit.
But as it relates to any legacy positions or any significant losses that were incurred we wouldn't have seen that.
The other thing that's out there that I know there's been some things on is just about some of the underwriting in the pipelines of assets that people have.
Our team actually did a very good job in that they hedged on the front end some of the commitments to distribute and any changes in that were very very modest in the quarter.
So I think kind of going back to what Brian said we tend to be very much driven by the new issue business.
It was slow.
So within those credit trading areas they were slightly negative but nothing really material in any one business that merits calling out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's really helpful.
And then just a last quick one.
Any change to the home price sensitivity that you guys laid out last quarter? The only I'd say the only thing that's -- nothing material from a home price sensitivity that would change.
The only thing that I would say is that if you look out with where consensus is we're now factoring into our models and what we put through the P&amp;L was home prices looking to be down about 2.6% from where we are now until the end of 2012 which is slightly more negative than what we had when we reported last quarter and that's reflected in the numbers that we've shown.
And we'll go next to the side of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I know this isn't part of the first phase of the New BAC but obviously it's another quarters gone by where your trading core trading levels are significantly below the $4 billion or $4.5 billion that you kind of aspired to.
How do you think about the cost structure of that business at this stage? So you're correct and part of that is that -- so Tom has began reducing headcount and we'll do that in advance of doing the work on Phase 2.
So think about 2 aspects to it.
One is sort of a for lack of a better term a capacity reduction that he's gone through now.
And during the quarter as we've already talked about we reduced headcount in some of the trading and Investment Banking and areas generally around the world and in the U.S.
He'll continue to make those moves as we move towards the Phase 2.
The Phase 2 is it takes the work and change it so the first reduction will occur before that and Tom has made some of those changes and we'll continue to make them.
But we agree with you the market is going to be and the economy is going to be such that the revenue is going to be below and we're going to continue to take down the cost structure.
Now one of the easy things in this business versus other businesses so much of its variable comps which comes down easier but ultimately you have to reduce the heads and the infrastructure and Tom is going through that right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Kind of a separate topic related to kind of the consumer side.
We've kind of discussed your actions in terms of the overdraft fees and the point-of-sale and now you've kind of adjusted pricing.
Can you talk about what your expectations are for kind of the size of the consumer bank post all of that? I mean have you kind of put that in thought as to will it shrink and by how much and how does that work? Well I think if you think about the Consumer business generally the high-net worth businesses as we continue to grow continue to grow advisors continue to grow headcount and when we come into the Consumer business if you think about the 2 broad customer groups that we talked about our retail customer group and our preferred customer group.
And preferred customer group we continue to add resources there.
Preferred includes small business so we've added financial services advisors to help capture the investment side opportunity.
We've added more personal bankers.
We've added more Small Business Bankers.
And all that has generated significant revenue growth.
On the retail business it's more about optimizing the cost structure.
And we've been there we've been taking action on the branches as we've shown you.
I think this quarter another 25 or 30 branch reductions the last quarter was 60.
We continue to reduce that.
So it's not small in terms of deposits and so on in terms of the checking accounts that keeps growing.
But it's smaller in terms of infrastructure and cost structure we're at 240-odd basis points of operating cost per deposit which we think leads the industry and we'll continue to drive it down.
So if you think about it from a core sort of checking Consumer business optimizing the cost structure underneath the customers we have and then growing in the areas that we can and with the investments and penetration of then on the product side the Cards and the Mortgages.
Mortgages on a direct-to-retail basis is where we're going those numbers are in the data you can see how that will be.
And then Card absent the U.K.
et cetera is kind of at the stability level from the core U.S.
book.
Now we still have some run-off portfolios in there that were from before that we're running down but from a core U.S.
book we're relatively stable so it will sort of be that size.
And that will give -- so that's sort of the 2 product sides of it.
Research Division</strong> I guess Brian what I was just trying to get at is the increase of the fees.
Do you have a sense as to how much or how many of those retail customers you're kind of willing to let go? I think that we think that as you look at the customer base when we look at the profile customers who have their entire banking relationship with us and those that don't a lot of people can quantify will qualify and do qualify not to pay the fees that we've been talking about because they have their whole relationship with us or a large part of that relationship.
So as you look at our sales process now we're selling about 80% of primary checking -- what we call first checking or primary checking relationships the core relationships.
If a person deposits their paycheck if a person carries their sort of nest egg what they're saving on the run rate all of that will help them qualify.
So we're comfortable with the people having the relationship being a card a mortgage and what they do to get out of the fee.
The issue is when people split their relationship and use our convenience and our access and our 18 000 ATMs and our no foreign ATM fees and our online banking product and all that and yet have their relationship elsewhere that is tough for us to afford to provide and we need to provide to all our customers to be competitive.
And so the fees are to get people to bring more relationships that we're comfortable with that we'll end up in a good dynamic there.
And we'll go next to the side of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on the NII and then a question on the mortgage.
On the NII you indicated that if rates stayed where they are today you'd be back at 2Q levels of NII.
That takes into consideration the prepays that are going to be coming hitting you in fourth quarter.
Obviously there was reasonable amount of folks that haven't yet been able to close on their refi at this stage.
Yes.
It's a good question I probably should have been a little bit more clear.
Keep in mind that amortization amount that we took in the third quarter was not reflective of prepays that we actually saw in the securities.
It was us adjusting our assumptions in the models to reflect the prepays that we think that we will see based on the interest rate environment that we saw at the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then assets you're asset sensitive.
Can you tell us how your asset sensitivity change q-on-q or where you are now versus where you were at quarter end? With respect to where we went from we do continue to be asset sensitive but there's no question I would not say that there was any material change from our level of asset sensitivity from the second quarter to third quarter though.
Research Division</strong> And that includes the planned long-term debt roll off? It sure does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us a sense of how much long-term debt that you're planning on rolling off over the course of the next 3 or 4 quarters? Sure.
If you look at where we are and focus on the parent company the parent company has got I believe it's roughly $12 billion that rolls off over the next 90 days.
And then as you go out over the course of the year realize that we've got roughly $30 billion that rolls off that's the big number during the second quarter of next year when TLGP runs off.
So those are the significant numbers there.
And then you would expect over time given the liquidity that we have at the bank that we will continue to run off the funding that we have at the bank as opposed to rolling it over given the liquidity that we have at the company.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And that's all been prepaid so to speak with the cash balances? That's exactly correct.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on mortgage.
Can you just give us a sense as to how the impact of shutting down the correspondent channel is going through flow through the P&amp;L and the time frame? Well I think if you look at the P&amp;L this quarter and you look at -- and look at our comments that we've made with respect to volumes we've started to see that during the third quarter.
And clearly the majority that will be gone off or run-off at the end of the fourth.
You should not expect to see any material change though in the overall P&amp;L from correspondent realizing that we're in the process of working through and taking out the costs associated with that and there can obviously at points in time be a quarter lag in that.
The most important thing that you're going to see with respect to our financials though in the correspondent is that the correspondent business when you originated a loan it came with an MSR associated with it that obviously doesn't count from Basel III perspective.
So what you will see is a slowdown in the new bookings of MSRs that come on the balance sheet as a result of exiting the segment.
And we'll take our next question from Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on Page 40 of the supplement it looks like you had additions or higher levels of new nonaccrual loans in the third quarter both in the consumer portfolio but also in the commercial portfolio.
I'm just curious if you can give us a little color as to what you're seeing in those portfolios? And how you drove down the NPA levels in both those portfolios on a quarter-end by quarter-end basis? If I'm -- so I guess that if you think and if we look at the consumer NPAs I'm not sure of exactly what you're quoting.
We're obviously at the end of the second quarter our NPAs in the consumer side were 21.3 and they're down to 21 at the end of the third quarter and we've seen a similar amount in commercial.
I think as you look at the -- on the consumer side obviously the big thing that we're trying to do and that we've seen start up is to work through the foreclosure pipeline and to get the foreclosure pipeline clear.
And I would say on the commercial side the only thing that we really saw of note during on the commercial side is that we did sell roughly $800 million during the quarter of a combination of criticized and nonperforming commercial real estate loans for the quarter.
So that would have affected the number but those are really the only 2 things that I would point to.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification.
In terms of the TLGP debt that you said you had running off through the second quarter of next year that $30 billion does that include is that -- does that include the $12 billion that you mentioned rolling off of the 90 days or is that completely separate from that? It's separate.
We've got roughly $12 billion between now and the end of the year.
And the TLGP number that I think the total number maturities in the second quarter of next year are roughly $30 billion that's separate and distinct from the $12 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final comment.
There was a news report today I guess that came out on Bloomberg news talking about potentially moving some of the -- because of your downgrade that you mentioned in your prepared remarks potentially moving some of the derivatives activity into the bank and out of some of the nonbank subsidiaries.
Is there any additional color you can provide on that given that it looks like from the regulatory data most of the derivatives are already held at least on a notional basis already held in the bank? Yes.
I don't -- I mean we were a little bit surprised at the article.
I don't think that what's reflected in the article is anything different from the normal course of dealings that we've had with our counterparties since Merrill Lynch and BofA came together.
And we obviously continue to work with them on transactions within all of our legal entities.
And we'll go take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
You had 2 quarters in a row now of significant special items and there is a fair amount of confusion on the Street I think about what the core trends are.
I know that we're looking at fourth quarter and fourth quarter is always special but can you tell us any large items that may be on the horizon right now coming in fourth quarter? And when would we get to quarters that sort of look more like normal and sustainable? Well I think if you I mean if you look at the adjustments and I think the things that are out there the first thing I would say that we've seen is that you've seen and you saw it in this quarter a lot of pluses and minuses as it relates to asset disposition strategies and the like.
And obviously over the course of the last year and a half as we've been working through those it can lead to the numbers bouncing around.
But Nancy I'd ask you to go back to Page 18.
And one of the reasons that we've been as focused as we have on the core and shedding assets and you look at what we did with the private equity portfolio is to start eliminating the chances that these types of both pluses and minuses come through.
So we work -- from that perspective we're just working with a lot smaller base than we've been.
The second thing that I would say that we've talked here to are some of the things that affected net interest income.
We obviously have spoken to where we are from a rate perspective and to the extent that within a reasonable band of rates we wouldn't expect those things to come through.
The U.K.
rate change the way that it's set up will show up one quarter a year and it's 1%.
So you know what that is.
And the last piece that's really where we're most focused that's led to the majority of the noise is mortgage and it was the reason that we split the business up between Legacy Asset Services as well as the front end.
We're working very hard to continue to work through the delinquent portfolio that we have and obviously we put a lot of reserves behind us.
That being said I think given the questions that everyone asked today there do continue to be some open items on mortgage.
But we feel like we've done everything we can at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Brian a question for you.
I mean you've said over the past several quarters that before you went back to the regulators and tried to gain greater autonomy over capital management that you had to "do the work." And I'm wondering if you can just reflect on that right now and whether the majority of the work has been done and whether you're ready to make that request? I think we continue to follow the capital plan Nancy and we're doing the work.
And I think with the -- we will have to make sure that we continue to make the progress in the next several quarters including with the -- the economy not being what anybody would have thought of 3 or 4 quarters ago.
So we are in progress.
We're off making progress in the capital plan and we'll continue to do that.
And as soon as we know something we'll tell you.
And we'll go next to Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First just in terms of looking at the European exposure 2 questions.
One I know France is not a big exposure for the company but could you just remind us kind of what your relative position there is in France? Any other collateral that you have with respect to the GIPS that you outlined in the supplement? And whether or not there was any incremental marks taken in the course of the quarter as it relates to Europe? Yes let me start if I could with what we've seen in the GIPS because a couple of pieces of information you can see this through some of our different disclosures but let me just walk through it.
As you think about where we are our reported exposure for the quarter was roughly $14.6 billion that we have and that was down roughly $1.5 billion quarter-over-quarter.
As you think about that number realize that that number has been offset or reduced by roughly $2 billion through different CDS and short positions that we have.
But when you start at that $14.6 billion realize that there are certain things that we've hedged that don't show up there.
The first is and you can see in our supplement we've got $1.7 billion of CVA hedges largely against our Italian exposure.
So as we think about sovereign exposure in Europe we feel very good.
In addition to that we are not able to count our FVO hedges that we have on our fair option value book with the way we report for FICC.
That reduces the exposure by about $2.2 billion.
If you take those two adjustments and think about where we are that gets that $14.6 billion number down by several billion dollars.
And I think as we've said before we got after this at the beginning of 2010 so there's nothing material from a P&amp;L perspective that you would have seen going through the income statement.
If we move to France what I would say there that we obviously do a lot -- not a lot in France but we have a presence in France.
I would say if you look at our exposure we obviously have exposure to the clearinghouse there which is pretty good exposure.
The corporate lending that we do there consistent with the strategy is to multinationals that are not dependent within France.
And then I would say if you move to the counterparties and look at what we do with the different financial institutions there it's a couple of billion dollars that we have out to the banks in the aggregate.
And we manage that exposure very tightly and manage it in a way where we don't have any real tall trees to any one institution.
So I would say as we look across not only to GIPS but also France and other countries that pop up we feel very good about where we're positioned.
And I think that the as it relates to our book we're more focused on -- is there a second derivative effect that comes out of what's going on in Europe as opposed to any concern with any of the exposures that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so just a follow-up on that.
You say nothing material in terms of P&amp;L.
I'm assuming less than that -- less than $500 million or so in the quarter? Much much much much less than $500 million.
Research Division</strong> Much much less.
Okay.
And then in terms of France did you mention any sovereign-related debt? We do have some sovereign-related debt there.
I think we obviously watch it very carefully.
It's inconsistent with the way that we hedge.
And what we've done in Italy if you'd see any real change in the perception of the country we would adjust that.
But I think it's despite some of the rumblings from the agencies it still is a AAA-rated country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just switch gears quickly.
In terms of FICC and I know the preliminary draft of Volcker has just come out and it's a lot to digest to say the least but could you give us -- if I look at your trading inventory that you've disclosed it came down a little bit this quarter.
But I guess one of the concerns from investors has been that has risen since the draft proposal is really how it potentially might affect FICC for the commercial banks in particular.
Any thoughts preliminary thoughts and just in terms of your business again being levered towards FICC and how that may change in the coming quarters particularly as we think about the flow sale volume and inventory levels there? Yes.
I'll make a couple of comments as you think about our FICC business.
The first is that since Merrill and BofA came together and you think about our FICC business that the market shares that we have in the underwriting and distribution of securities that we've been consistently between #1 and #2.
So the amount of -- given that position what we do from the investor or from the issuer side and as a result the need to make market from the investor side I think relative to others we feel pretty good about where we are.
Obviously those regulations are still evolving.
As I think others have said the amount of compliance and regulatory costs that go along with that while the cost may not be high there's obviously a lot of work that will need to be done associated with those to ensure compliance and we'll obviously work through those.
But I think best that we can given the nature of our business at this point at least we'd not see a change materially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So again Europe aside and what happened this quarter at least in the near term we shouldn't expect any material change in terms of the business? That's correct.
And I show we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you everyone.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Stitt.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions changes in interest rates competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses.
And for additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thanks Kevin.
Before Bruce begins and good morning to everybody.
Before Bruce begins his portion of the presentation on the slide I thought I'd make a few comments about 2011 and what we are focused on for 2012.
The last 2 years we've been executing on a huge transformation here at Bank of America.
After 6 large acquisitions in 6 years during the mid-2000s then the economic crisis and its aftermath we set on a course to simplify the company to streamline the company to reduce the size of the company to lower our risk and build a fortress balance sheet.
During that we set goals to have 9% Basel I Tier 1 common and 6% tangible common at year-end 2011.
We set goals to reduce our non-core assets.
We set goals to bring our credit risk down and to address the mortgage risk related to the Countrywide  acquisition.
At the same time we also set goals to continue to invest in areas where our company can grow and has its competitive advantage.
Areas like our Wealth Management area areas like our Preferred Small Business areas where we've added Preferred Bankers and Small Business Bankers areas like our Commercial Corporate and Investment Banking areas especially in large corporate investment banking outside the United States.
Along the way we had to address the issues that came up in mortgage; the slow recovering economy which isn't moving -- which is moving forward but not as fast as we all like; the European crisis a muted interest rate outlook and the revenue loss to the new regulations that have been passed.
These then result in our focus on cost and we announced late -- early last fall our New BAC program and the goals that we had for it.
So as we think about 2011 we saw the following.
First on capital and liquidity.
This quarter our Tier 1 common equity ratio ended at 9.86%.
Our tangible common equity ratio ended at 6.64%.
In the case of each of these ratios they are dramatic improvement from the beginning of the year.
And we made these improvements while absorbing significant mortgage-related costs during the year.
We have ratios that are in line with our peers and we expect further improvement due to continued work on our balance sheet we'll make during 2012.
In addition our liquidity is and remains at record levels even after the downgrades we experienced in the fall.
Moving from capital and liquidity to our core businesses.
On Slide 3 you can see we continue to do what we're here for.
We simply serve our clients and customers and we do it very well.
Our core business activity continues to move forward.
During 2011 we continue to grow our deposits and our investment assets for our corporate and personal customers.
We originated 20% more in small business loans this year in 2011 than we did in 2010.
This met our internal goals we had for that unit but importantly also met our $1 billion incremental goal we committed to the White House and the Small Business Administration a few months back.
For our commercial clients and our corporate clients we did what we're here to do.
We provided more loans more capital and more market access here in the U.S.
and around the world.
For example in the fourth quarter you can see strong growth in our loan balances in our corporate area.
And for our investor clients we achieved the #1 Institutional Investor Overall Research ranking.
Evidenced in the quality of ideas to match our capital to help them make their investments.
In our Mortgage business we continue to reshape our operations to focus solely on origination of mortgages for our customers and to do it well.
And importantly we continue to help those who have difficulty making their payments in mortgages.
We've now crossed over $1 million modified loans in our servicing portfolios.
The third area we focus on after capital liquidity and the core businesses was costs.
It's clear that we're going to grind forward with the recovery in this country.
Our clients continue to push forward and we're seeing the activity continue to move forward but a full recovery to what we would call normal may take some time.
So with that in mind we begin to focus on bringing our cost down across the company.
Our cost structure for Bank of America has 2 broad elements today.
First the cost we incur to deal with the mortgage issues.
And second the remaining cost to run the rest of the company for the benefit of our customers.
Overall cost were down from 2010 to 2011 and we expect substantial cost savings in 2012.
This quarter you can see that starting to take hold.
We made significant progress towards our overall FTE reduction goals.
Our period-end FTE is down about 7 000 people in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
This is over and above the 2 500 people we added in this quarter for our Legacy Asset Services.
There's 2 things about this.
One this shows that our New BAC  implementation has begun in earnest.
And second the good news is that we expect that LAS is at and near its peak staffing.
The fourth area we've been concentrating on in 2011 was trading.
Trading was strong in the first part of the year but with the issues in Europe the down -- U.S.
downgrades the downgrades of our company and changes in client risk appetite results were weak in the second half especially in the third quarter.
However during the fourth quarter we partially recovered as Bruce will talk about later.
Yet we still reduced risk during the quarter to ensure we were well positioned to handle what might have come up.
We still have work to do in trading but the team got active this quarter as the quarter unfolded and we saw a stronger results.
From a credit risk perspective you can see that our charge-offs and cover ratios continued to improve.
We ended the year with strong ratios.
And we'll also end the year with $15.9 billion in rep and warranty liability reserves.
We built significant litigation and other reserves in this area also.
So the 4 areas of 2011 was all about raising capital and liquidity driving the core businesses managing the cost and risk management.
As we look at 2012 these seems the same.
First on capital and liquidity.
Bruce will talk to you later about our targets as we look forward but the focus in this company is to continue to move through the 10% level in Basel I Tier 1 common and drive towards a Basel III implementation.
Liquidity will remain high even as we continue to reduce our long-term debt footprint.
And the second area is cost.
As I said earlier we expect that operating cost at LAS are nearing peak.
As we finished the foreclosure look back and we continue to reduce the delinquent units serviced by this group we expect its cost to come down during 2012.
Just for clarity in this quarter in the fourth quarter of 2011 LAS costs were $3.5 billion of our total cost $1.5 billion of that was litigation in LAS.
The remaining were operating costs.
For the rest of the company we had expenses of about $16 billion in the fourth quarter including $0.5 billion in goodwill write-downs.
We expect to see in 2012 strong cost improvement consistent with our New BAC goals.
Bruce will discuss these goals later.
New BAC is doing what we expected and the Phase 2 evaluation is going well.
As you know headcount drives our costs.
We saw a significant improvement in the fourth quarter and we expect to see that as we move through 2012.
As we move to the core businesses in 2012 for 2012 we can now really focus on our retail strategy.
In this quarter you'll see the last part of the regulatory cost coming through that's the Durbin interchange changes.
We've now absorbed the Durbin the Reg E the CARD Act and all the changes that occurred over the last couple of years.
The focus here in consumer is to balance our customer and shareholder return needs and to continue to work on our cost structure reducing branches as we've done this year.
We're also going to continue to meet our customers' change of behaviors through our innovative offerings especially to our 9-million plus mobile banking consumers.
Trading continue to improve this quarter as I said and we have sized our business at times and we look forward to continue to improve in 2012.
LAS and mortgage will continue to take work during 2012 which won't be different in 2011.
But for the other businesses we expect to generate strong core customer results.
We also will continue to take advantage of the growth opportunities garnering more customers and more depth in relationship with our consumers.
That should continue to provide the good returns on capital that you see in those businesses this quarter.
As you think about risks for 2012 we expect to see continued improvement in credit risk as these legacy portfolios that we've identified for you continue to run off.
Those legacy portfolios are a drag on earnings with much higher credit cost than the rest of the portfolio that we'll retain and drive as we go forward.
We also expect in 2012 to continue to manage  through the mortgage issues relying in part on our significant reserves we built in 2011.
So as we look forward to 2012 the focus remains the same as the last 2 years: continue to drive capital and liquidity continue to drive our core business growth where we have opportunities continue to manage our cost well and continue to manage the legacy residual risk down.
As we think about 2012 we begin with a much stronger position stronger capital and liquidity stronger reserves and that continues to give us optimism about the prospects for our franchise.
And with 2012 with much great progress having been made on some of these legacy issues and the transformation of the last couple of years we can take all the energy and talent we used  to drive that and dedicate it to help drive our company's success and we look forward to doing that.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce Great.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start my comments on Page 6 of the slide presentation.
And as you all saw this morning on an FTE basis we reported net income of $2 billion or $0.15 a share during the fourth quarter of 2011.
I'd like to bring your attention to several items in the quarter that had significant impacts on the income statement.
First in November we sold the majority of the balance of our CCB shares generating a gain of $2.9 billion.
In addition to that we exchanged trust preferred securities into a combination of senior notes and common stock during the quarter which generated a pretax gain of $1.2 billion.
And lastly we had gains on sales of debt securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the quarter.
Things that went against us through the income statement during the quarter.
The tightening of our credit spreads generated a DVA loss of $474 million relating to our trading liabilities.
As Brian referenced we had a goodwill impairment charge of $581 million that we recognized during the quarter that related to a change in the estimated value of the European Card business and that's reported in All Other.
During the quarter we also had a credit mark on our structured liabilities under the fair value option that resulted in a negative mark of $814 million as the result of our credit spreads tightening and that's reported in other income.
As you think about that $814 million keep in mind that whether positive or negative it does not impact regulatory capital ratios but it does impact GAAP capital.
Lastly from a litigation perspective we had expense in the quarter of $1.8 billion of which $1.5 billion was mortgage related.
If you flip to Slide 7 there are a lot of numbers on this page but I'd like to bring your attention to a couple of things.
The first as you look from year-end 2010 to year-end 2011 you see a continued transformation of our balance sheet where all of the focus is moving to our core client activities.
A couple of things to highlight.
Total assets and I'm speaking from third quarter to fourth quarter now total assets for the quarter were down 4% or approximately $90 billion.
From a risk-weighted asset perspective risk-weighted assets were down 6% or $75 billion during the quarter.
If we move down to Tier 1 common equity.
Tier 1 common equity during the quarter increased $9 billion to $126.7 billion.
That increase in Tier 1 common along with the reduction in risk-weighted assets led to our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing from 8.65% to 9.86%.
And I'll go into that in a little bit more detail in a few minutes.
Tangible book value per common share was down 2% reflecting the fact that we issued 400 million shares in the exchanges that I referenced with respect to trust preferred and preferred securities.
You can see that 400 million shares in our outstanding common share change from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
If you move to the bottom our allowance for loan loss reserves came down $1.3 billion during the quarter as we released reserves.
Importantly though our allowance relative to annualized charge-offs improved from 1.7x to 2.1x at the end of the year.
And lastly our liability for representations and warranties remained relatively flat at approximately $16 billion.
If we move to Slide 8 I thought it was important to give you a walk-through of the drivers of the improvement in the Tier 1 common equity ratio.
We start on the far left at 8.65%.
As we've disclosed throughout the quarter the preferred exchanges the CCB sale of shares and the Canadian consumer card sale in the aggregate generated 60 basis points of Tier 1 common.
Over and above that 21 basis points coming from net income in change in deferred tax asset within the Global Markets business about 18 basis points through reductions and market risk change in loan balances and other asset sales were about 10 basis points.
And you had a series of other things both positives and negatives that netted out to 12 basis points which in the aggregate increased the number to 9.86% at the end of the year.
Moving from capital to liquidity.
If you flip to Slide 9 you can see that our Global Excess Liquidity Sources increased from $363 billion at the end of the third quarter to $378 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
As you think about those excess liquidity sources recall that that does not include approximately $189 billion in additional liquidity that's available to our banking entities by pledging assets to the home loan banks in the Fed discount window.
At the parent company parent company liquidity was particularly strong at $125 billion up $6 billion for the quarter.
As you think about that increase it's important to note that we accomplished that increase while reducing parent company debt by $17 billion during the fourth quarter.
As a result of those changes our time-to-required funding increased to 29 months at the end of the year up from 27 months at the end of the third quarter.
That liquidity base along with other funds that are available to us will enable us to retire $60 billion of parent company unsecured debt that matures throughout 2012 about $24 billion of that is TLGP debt that will come due during the second quarter.
As you think about our issuance plans throughout 2012 from a plain vanilla debt perspective you should expect us to be issuing less long-term debt in 2012 than we did in 2011.
And similar to where we were at the end of the third quarter our parent company and broker-dealers have no short-term unsecured debt outstanding.
We move from liquidity to net interest income turning to Slide 10.
Net interest income was $11 billion during the fourth quarter up $220 million from the third quarter.
The increase was driven by lower asset hedge ineffectiveness as well as less acceleration of amortization of premiums on securities.
On the positive side contributions to net interest income from lower debt balances and rates paid on deposits were more than offset by portfolio repricing and reduction in consumer loan balances including the sale of the Canadian Card business.
We'd ask you to keep in mind here that our asset liability management strategy is focused on managing interest rate risk across the entire corporation which includes minimizing OCI exposure and managing the duration of our securities.
Moving to Slide 11 on Deposits.
We highlight the results of our Deposits business.
Earnings for the quarter were $141 million a decrease from the third quarter primarily driven by an increase in FDIC expense which we would expect to come down going forward.
Average deposit balances decreased 1% compared to the third quarter driven primarily by a decline in time deposits which we had targeted to do during the quarter and we'll continue to do so.
During the quarter rates paid on deposits declined from 25 basis points to 23 basis points.
As we continue to focus on the cost and optimize our delivery network you can see our branch count came down again during the quarter.
We have continued to expand our service for small business owners by hiring over 500 locally-based small business bankers during the year to provide convenient access to financial advice and solutions to our customers.
We've also continued to increase our mobile banking customer base to 9.2 million customers which is a 7% increase from the prior quarter and up 45% from a year ago.
If we turn to Slide 12 Cards Services earnings decreased from the third quarter to $1 billion primarily due to the impact of the Durbin Amendment which kicked in during the fourth quarter.
Credit card purchase volumes did increase by 6% from a year ago after adjusting for portfolio divestitures and were up seasonally from the third quarter.
Within our U.S.
Card business new account growth was up more than 50% from the fourth quarter a year ago.
Within Card Services ending loans declined $1.6 billion from the third quarter due largely to portfolio divestitures and continued non-core portfolio runoff that was partially offset by the increase in volume-related seasonal spend.
Credit quality within the Card business continues to improve.
U.S.
credit card losses improved for the ninth consecutive quarter and our 30-plus day delinquency rate declined for the 11th consecutive quarter.
As you look at the Card business I want to remind you that the International Card Business results were moved to All Other in the third quarter and prior-period results were adjusted accordingly.
Within Global Wealth and Investment Management on Slide 13.
Earnings for the quarter of $249 million were down from the third quarter as lower market levels and activity drove lower revenue and expenses were higher due to a few noisy items.
Client balances were up 3.5% from the third quarter due to fourth quarter market levels as well as AUM flows.
Long-term AUM flows were $4.5 billion during the fourth quarter pretty much in line with what we saw during the third quarter.
On the expense side as I mentioned there were several items including higher FDIC and litigation expenses as well as other related losses and some severance costs that we saw during the quarter.
We added 214 Financial Advisors to the world's leading advisory force during the quarter with total FA levels exceeding 17 300 at the end of the year.
As we look forward we would expect unit advisor growth in 2012 based on economic conditions as well as absorbing the FA growth from 2011.
Net income in Commercial Banking on Slide 14 was flat at $1 billion since the third quarter.
Commercial clients continued to increase liquidity positions driving average deposit levels up $2.2 billion from the third quarter.
Average loans were flat as the reductions that we saw within our Commercial Real Estate area were offset by about $1.7 billion of loan growth within the C&amp;I category.
Asset quality continued to improve net charge-offs were down $83 million nonperforming assets were down $1 billion to $5.6 billion and our reservable utilized criticized exposure declined by 11% during the quarter.
If we switch to our Global Banking and Markets area on Slide 15 the results reflected increased sales and trading activity excluding DVA which I'll cover in greater detail in a minute.
Average loan and lease balances during the quarter increased $10.5 billion or 9% primarily driven by growth in domestic and international corporate loans as well as international trade finance.
While deposit balances were down 5% versus the linked quarter I would highlight that our ending deposits at the end of the year were up nicely as we saw good flows during the last half of the quarter.
If you turn to Slide 16 I'd ask you to look in the middle of the page where we've drawn a red box around our sales and trading area.
Sales and trading excluding DVA was at $1.9 billion or up 73% from what was a difficult third quarter driven primarily by our Fixed Income Currency and Commodity area due to less volatility a tightening spread environment and a reduction in the CVA although these are still at relatively elevated levels.
Within our FICC business excluding DVA credit products structured credit trading in rates and currencies drove much of the increase.
In equities once again excluding DVA results decreased by 16% primarily due to lower volumes in commission-related revenue.
We did record DVA losses as I highlighted upfront of $474 million in the quarter as our credit spreads tightened compared to gains of $1.7 billion that we saw during the third quarter.
On the Investment Banking side firm-wide Investment Banking fees excluding self-led fees were $1 billion up 8% from the third quarter of 2011.
We would also note here that we maintained our #2 ranking globally in net investment banking fees while gaining share during the year.
If we turn to Slide 17 Consumer Real Estate Services reported a loss of $1.5 billion driven by continued elevated credit cost in the Home Equity portfolio higher litigation cost and the cost of managing delinquent and defaulted loans in the servicing portfolio.
The Home Loans business within the CRES area had a slight profit for the quarter.
First mortgage  production of $22 billion was down from the third quarter due primarily to our exit from the correspondent channel which we spoke of during the last quarter's earnings call.
As a result of this core production income declined during -- relative to the third quarter of 2011.
Results for the quarter did include $263 million in cost for reps and warrants primarily related to the GSEs along with the $1.5 billion of litigation expense I touched on at the beginning of the presentation.
Our MSR asset decreased by approximately $500 million during the quarter driven by MSR sales and borrower payments and ended the quarter at $7.4 billion.
MSR results net of hedge were positive by approximately $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter.
As we look at the cap rate on the MSR we ended the period at 54 basis points versus 52 basis points in the third quarter.
On Slide 18 we show some comparisons of certain metrics in the Legacy Asset Servicing area on a linked quarter basis and compared to the prior year quarter as we continue to work very hard to reduce delinquent loans and find homeowner solutions.
As Brian referenced we are either at or near the peak of staffing this area and we are making very good progress.
Total Legacy Asset Services first-lien servicing dropped 16% in the quarter while 60-day plus delinquent loans dropped 8%.
Much of the work done to sell MSRs has allowed the transfer of more than 510 000 loans serviced in the past quarter alone.
As we look at this page it's obviously very important that we continue to shrink the activity that we have in the Legacy Asset Servicing area so that we can again attacking the $2 billion of expenses that Brian alluded to at the beginning On Slide 19 we show you the results of All Other which recall includes our Global Principal Investing business the International Consumer Card business strategic investments our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate protection and the discontinued real estate portfolio.
Items of note in the quarter in All Other included $814 million related to the negative fair value adjustments on structured liabilities the $581 million goodwill impairment charge related to European Card $2.9 billion related to CCB $1.2  billion on the exchanges and $1.1 billion related to the sale of debt securities.
As we move and split to Slide 20.
A lot of line items and data but I would highlight a couple of things here.
We did make very good progress across most categories of expense.
If you start at the top line you can see that our personnel expense did come down in the quarter largely driven by a 7 000 reduction in FTE headcount from approximately 288 000 to 281 000.
Those benefits were somewhat muted in the quarter due to higher default servicing cost and an increase in severance costs associated with the headcount reductions.
You can see in the majority of the other line items that we did continue to reduce costs with several exceptions.
The first in other general operating expense which increased $1.6 billion that increase was due solely to an increase of $1.3 billion in litigation as well as elevated FDIC expense which we would expect to go down in 2012.
The other 2 items of note the $581 million goodwill impairment for the European Consumer Card business and our professional fees which tend to be seasonally high during the fourth quarter of the year.
We turn to Slide 21.
Let me update you with where we are with respect to our New BAC program.
We completed the initial planning related to Phase 1 in the third quarter of '11 and began the implementation during the fourth quarter.
Under our original guidance we have a goal of achieving approximately $5 billion in cost savings or about 18% of the expenses associated with the areas addressed.
We stated earlier that we were aiming for 20% of the $5 billion to be achieved during 2012.
Based on the hard work done to date we now believe we will exceed that 2012 goal.
Phase 2 evaluations for the areas outlined on Page 21 began late in 2011 and we would expect to complete that work in April.
As we look at the expense base it's similar to Phase 1 but we would expect lower cost savings given that the businesses tend to be more efficient already and have lower headcount.
While the savings will be lower we do think however that we will start being able to see some of those saves later this year as the initiatives to achieve the savings aren't as inter-dependent as the consumer businesses.
So if we take a step-back and look at the lower headcount from the third quarter and combined that with New BAC both Phase 1 and Phase 2 along with an improving mortgage environment we believe we can realize substantial cost savings in the second half of this year.
We're not going to identify a specific number on this call but we'll update you as we move further into the year.
If we now move to credit trends that we saw during the quarter on Slide 22.
You can see that overall consumer trends remained positive.
Net charge-offs 30-plus performing delinquencies and nonperforming assets all continued to fall.
Net charge-offs in the credit card area declined more than any other portfolio due in part to recoveries recorded to the bulk sale of previously charged off U.K.
credit card loans.
Provision expense within consumer was $3.2 billion and included a $384 million reduction in reserves.
On Slide 23 you can see that residential mortgage in home equity 30- to 89-day performing delinquent loans excluding our fully insured loans were relatively flat with the third quarter.
This was not unexpected as the fourth quarter has historically had slow collections.
On Slide 24 we show nonperforming asset trends for both our Residential Mortgage and Home Equity area.
Total consumer real estate nonperformers trended down for the sixth quarter in a row.
Residential Mortgage declined from the third quarter as charge-offs pay downs and returns to performing status continue to outpace new nonaccrual loans.
Home Equity loans did show a slight increase as inflows outpaced charge-offs and returned to performing status.
The increase in NPAs was driven by growth in the greater than 180-day past due loans while the less than 180-day past due loans remained flat as delinquency inflows remained relatively stable quarter-over-quarter.
As you may recall loans greater than 180 days past due have already been written down to their net realizable value.
Turning to overall commercial credit quality on Slide 25.
The trends that we saw were very similar to what I referenced when I discussed the commercial bank.
Including the provision for unfunded commitments we recorded a benefit provision expense of $220 million that included a reserve reduction of $736 million.
Both nonperforming assets and reservable criticized levels continued to decrease.
We flip to Slide 26.
We've included a slide on Basel III that we included when we reported our second quarter earnings and I would make a couple of points here.
The first is we continue to work very hard as we work toward and progressed towards Basel III at the end of 2012.
You can see that significant progress in 2 different ways.
The first we had originally targeted getting our risk-weighted assets under Basel III down to $1.8 trillion by the end of 2012.
We have updated that goal now to have risk-weighted assets down to $1.75 trillion.
In addition to the reduction of risk-weighted assets based on the progress that we made during the quarter we now expect our Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III at the end of 2012 on a fully phased-in basis to be between 7.25% and 7.5% up from our previous guidance of 6.75% to 7%.
Let me now wrap up by spending a few moments discussing our expectations for 2012.
I won't go into a lot of detail as the economic landscape is somewhat uncertain given the evolving events in Europe the upcoming elections and the speed around the recovery in the housing markets.
In 2012 we believe net interest income will remain somewhat challenged and will be highly dependent on the rate environment.
While we expect consumer loans to continue to run off this should be somewhat mitigated by loan growth in our commercial businesses.
Additionally we expect to benefit from continued reductions in the term debt footprint.
Most of the line items in our earnings report whether it be card income service charges investment or brokerage tend to be very correlated with the economy.
So if we see economic growth we would expect that to translate into higher revenues.
At this point Durbin is fully embedded in the fourth quarter results so you have a solid base to work with there.
Investment banking we would expect the activities in 2012 to be fairly consistent with what we saw in 2011.
As Brian referenced at the beginning we'd expect to see better results in sales and trading.
But once again those tend to be pretty correlated to global market conditions and the health of the recovery.
Equity investment income we'd expect to drop off considerably given the sale of the CCB shares that we have during 2011.
On the expense side in the first quarter we should start to see the positive impact of the fourth quarter headcount reduction and the impact from New BAC.
Our goal for the fourth quarter of this year is to have sustainable cost savings which would include not only certain New BAC Phase I and Phase 2 benefits but also lower expenses in LAS the benefits of reduced merger charges lower cost associated with businesses we've exited as well as other expense reduction initiatives.
Credit quality should continue to improve over the next few quarters but at somewhat of a slower pace and we'd also expect to continue to see some reserve reductions.
Capital and capital ratios should continue to grow.
What will drive that growth in 2012 will be mainly through earnings and to a lesser extent RWA levels throughout the year.
We expect that most sales of business units are essentially complete although there will be some targeted areas --  some targeted activity within certain selected areas.
We expect the effective tax rate to be around 30% plus or minus depending on any unusual items.
So in summary as we enter 2012 we expect the economic headwinds and low interest rates to persist while we continue to deal with legacy mortgage issues and ongoing regulatory changes.
That being said we enter 2012 with higher capital liquidity and combined reserves for credit representations and warranties and litigation than at any point in the company's history.
And with that why don't we go ahead and open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the commercial loan growth and how much is due to drawdown of existing credit lines versus expansion in new areas? Let me just hit a couple of points.
One of the things we traditionally talked about Mike is our core middle market because people look at that as a market for what middle market companies are doing in the draw rate.
It is relatively consistent third quarter or fourth quarter 32% down 100 basis points from a year ago I think round numbers and down maybe 800 or 900 basis points from where it would sit in a normalized economies.
So middle market companies are consistently drawing but haven't moved.
At the larger corporate area we had some strong growth in the fourth quarter I'll have Bruce touch on that.
But from a broad economy people are fairly stable and sitting there.
Bruce why don't you touch in the higher? Sure.
If you look at particularly within the GBAM space I would make a couple of observations.
We saw a growth in both regular way corporate loans as well as in the trade finance area so the growth that we saw was fairly widespread.
If you look at that growth by region we saw some growth in the U.S.
and Canada and we also saw a very nice growth in both the Latin America as well as the Asia-Pac region.
In addition to that we also saw some growth within our Mortgage area within the Global Banking and Markets area.
So not any one thing driving the growth.
I'd say the one area that was probably the strongest was trade finance but it was fairly widespread throughout the business.
Mike just one last observation.
If you think about the capital-markets driven activity in the higher grade stuff it's been very strong and investment -- non-investment grade comes in and out freely on the markets.
But I'd say when I talk to sponsors and other people they're ready to go and for deals $4-billion $5-billion transaction.
There's a very strong demand to do them from the sponsor side.
So I think if market stay stable we could see some pretty good activity this year on that.
Research Division</strong> Just one separate and last question.
For new project BAC are you cutting enough? I guess if you look at results for last year revenues reported were down $17 billion expenses were down $3 billion.
So a big gap between the decline in revenues and decline in expenses.
And you can back out LAS and some other items it's still seem to be a pretty big negative gap.
So are you cutting as much as you need to? You have the structural project but perhaps more cutting for this cycle is that needed? Well as we're approaching the business which are more cyclical i.e.
the trading businesses investment banking.
You've seen in the press that we've been in advance even doing the work in New BAC.
We reduced headcount fairly significantly in some of those areas where the opportunities weren't there and that's more adjusting that business cost 2 ways.
One is the comp cost you adjust down obviously; then secondly the headcount.
So that's been going on.
I'd say you need to be -- just to remind you and you know this Mike is that in the -- there's negative revenue rep and warranty cost has actually negative revenues so that has a fairly big impact.
But as we look at it we are driving towards the right cost structure for the right run rate of revenues for this company over time we'll continue to drive at that.
You could always say "Can I go a little faster go a little slower?" But we need to balance especially in the broad consumer business.
You need to have good customer service strong customer relationships and we continue to invest in the growth areas with getting the cost down.
So example on the branches you've seen the numbers we dropped to 5 700 from a high of 6 100.
Our cost of operating our whole retail platform as a percent of deposits continues to work down.
But we have to be careful to make sure the service quality as we do that is well-managed.
So it's a balancing act.
I question every day whether we get it exactly right can it go a little faster a little slower.
But the areas are really market sensitive we move pretty quickly on cost.
The other areas you have to be careful and reengineer the works so you make sure they can still do a great job for the customers.
We'll take our next question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Bruce I was wondering on net interest income.
Was there still some level of after-hedge ineffectiveness and prepay amortization in the fourth quarter number? I know it was less than third but was there something in the fourth? There was John.
And I think if you look at the delta in net interest income really 4 main items I'll give you a little bit more detail on.
We picked up $500 million of benefit during the quarter from less hedging effectiveness in prepays.
We picked up $200 million of deposit based on lower debt footprint and our deposit pricing.
On the negative side we had about $200 million less because of the rates on our mortgage portfolio and about $200 million less due to the lower Consumer Card businesses primarily credit card which included the sale of Canadian Card that we didn't have in December.
So if you take those for 4 items that'll give you the bridge the change in net interest income for the quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that you can grow net interest income from that level of $11 billion in the fourth quarter going forward? What's going to be the drivers? I think right now if you look at what we've seen during the third and the fourth quarter that that's reflective of the balance sheet and the rate structure today.
And I think as you look forward the only things that are going to change those numbers going forward are primarily a change in interest rates and to the extent that we see a meaningful change in loan demand.
But as we look into 2012 I think that the third and the fourth quarter should give you the best jumping off point realizing that there was still some hedging effectiveness in FAS 91 in us.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's a good run rate and from there it depends on whether rates rise and when the loan growth picks up? That's correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Similarly on expenses when we look at the Page 20 lots of details there.
I'm trying to just get a sense of what the run rate might be going into the first quarter.
Taking up some of these specials it looks like maybe something similar last quarter $17.2 billion to $17.4 billion something like that.
I know you don't want to get too specific.
But can you give us any kind of sense of where you might be entering the year with the expense base.
I know you don't want to get specific about your targets but where are you going to start off? Yes.
I mean I think that if you look at the recent quarters it bounces around a little bit based on GBAM revenues GBAM performance compensation and other things flowing through.
As well as to the extent that there's severance or other things bouncing around.
But I think $17 billion area without any kind of onetime or anything going through it is probably the right starting point to think about John.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then from there you expect to get the benefits in the second half from some of the LAS and the New BAC stuff so that should improve later on in the year from that base? Yes.
And John remember in that $17-billion type of number we're not -- Bruce is not eliminating the $2 billion as sort of core LAS operating cost.
So we expect to see that come down.
And as I said in my comments that come down in core run rate.
But we have to do this right and that's where we keep engineering the change quarter by quarter by quarter.
The headcount reduction this quarter was part of the startup.
And John the only other thing I just want to make sure we highlight is as we do each year in each first quarter we have the vesting of the stock compensation expense during the first quarter.
And recall that that was about $1 billion during the first quarter of '11.
So I just don't want you to be surprised when you see that in the first quarter of '12.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you are including that when you said $17 billion? That's correct.
I'm not including that in the $17 billion that's correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last thing for me just on the rep and warrant issue Bruce.
Where do we stand on the changing GSE behavior? Is it more predictable? What was the nature of request and denials that you got this quarter on the GSE front? And do you have a sense of how much of the GSE clients you've addressed? Yes.
I think if you go back and look at the disclosure we have back in the slide I would say at this point we highlighted it in the third quarter that there were some disagreements between the 2 parties and I would say that there's really been no change in that perspective during the fourth.
And you can see that the GSE unsolved balance went up a little bit during the quarter and quite frankly that wasn't unexpected.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The $1.5 million litigation expense this quarter and I know you guys have been putting a lot of money away for litigation.
But is this related to the AG settlement? Or is it just other various suits out there? What it relates to it say there there are 2 significant items that we had included.
I'm not going to quantify them.
You saw that we did have the fair lending settlement at legacy Countrywide prior to when Bank of America bought Countrywide that went through during the quarter.
In the second thing you're correct.
During the fourth quarter while there's no DOJ-AG settlement you read what we read and we adjusted our litigation expense as well as our reserve levels to reflect the best that we could our understanding of what the deal may be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question is asset quality.
Charge-offs dropped $1 billion in the quarter which I thought was a very good number.
Was there some internal change? Are you pushing loans more through? Or are you just working loans out better? I mean is there anything any color around that number? Two things.
The first is and I referenced is recall that we did settle during the quarter some of the loans in the U.K.
that were written off.
We did a little bit better than we could have expected and that was about $300 million of the improvement.
So we did have that onetime pop or onetime benefit.
But I would say that across-the-board on the consumer side we adjusted the underwriting standards back in the fourth quarter of '08 and the first quarter of '09 and we're starting to see the benefits from those standards as the old stuff has flown through and the new stuff is becoming a greater percentage of the portfolio.
And then on the commercial side I would say across-the-board credit quality within the commercial space continues to be very strong.
And we continue to feel very good about commercial credit going forward.
And the last thing I'd say is that we've obviously reduced the size of the commercial real estate and clearly think we're on the other side of the commercial real estate charge-offs.
And we'll go next to Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quickies.
You mentioned in the outlook commentary that you think you could beat the 20% achieved for Phase 1.
I'm just curious bigger than a breadbox is that a lot more than the 20% a little bit more than the 20% and maybe where you're seeing the acceleration of that? It was a constant focus really when it comes to accelerate anything we can that really isn't dependent on technology implementation.
So when you look at the broad -- in 2012 we'll spend $0.75 billion to get the cost saves type of numbers so we're trying to accelerate the non-technology-dependent and that's the reference we gave you.
So we're ahead of schedule and we expect to stay ahead of schedule.
And overall the numbers will come in -- the goals we gave you.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
Curious on what you have baked in to both your credit loss assumptions and your reserves in terms of housing outlook.
There's been some in the industry talking about it bottoming.
There's economic data that's getting better.
There's affordability metrics that are getting better but you still have the stress inventory the underwriting standards and the securitization markets are kind of frozen.
Just general thoughts on housing bottoming and how you're positioned? Sure 2 things.
The first on just credit across the company.
What I would expect and just to make sure that we're clear we would expect charge-offs to continue to improve during 2012.
And at the same time you're probably likely to see reserve releases slow down.
So from a net perspective the jumping-off point at the fourth quarter is a pretty good jumping-off point as you think about credit for 2012.
With respect to the housing piece of it we look at and look out at macro markets and look at what the expectations are there as we look at forecasting and looking at residential real estate.
Those basically show a flat market throughout 2012.
And as we project through 2012 we don't really assume any significant move up or down.
It's basically flat.
From a pure activity [ph] standpoint we continue to see -- when we get hold of our property we continue to see to be able to move it in 60 90 days and the activity is moving through the markets as the foreclosure rework was done and any activity.
So we don't try to outguess the market.
We resort to the average and we adjust it for the places we have more loans.
But the reality is you continue to see the healing in the housing market every day in terms of the amount of activity the amount of delinquencies in the process moving forward.
And so I think it's still a lot of hard work but you'll be seeing it move forward.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
Sticking with the housing theme just curious if there's any update on the private label potential settlement and just maybe where are we in those conversations and maybe what's the next event timing-wise.
Really no change with anything that you see out there which I think we're expecting to see by the end of February the venue that the case will be decided.
And basically what you see out there is the same thing that we see and our sense is we'll get [ph] a little bit better sense with where the venue is by the end of February.
Research Division</strong> And is it Delaware versus New York? Is that the battle line? State versus federal.
Research Division</strong> State and federal sorry.
They got bumped up.
That's right.
Yes the decision's in the Second Circuit.
Our expectation is somewhere in the next 45 days or so.
They'll make a decision whether state and the federal court or go to state court.
Research Division</strong> Okay last quickie is in the summary slide you showed $5.6 billion of pretax pre-provision but that's before a lot of all these one-timers.
There's a lot of moving parts but curious if you have a thought on what a clean jumping-off point is for pretax pre-provision going into '12 as we factor in your thoughts on expenses and we can make our own choices on the market.
I mean I think what I'd say is that the cleanest way to think about it is if you take the $5.6 billion and you adjust for the items that are down below you get to a number that's in and around $4 billion.
And as we look forward and as we look to build off of that $4 billion you've obviously got a series of things that we'd look at going forward.
We clearly would expect the trading and investment banking revenues to be better in 2012 than what we saw here.
We've obviously got New BAC Phase 1 that's beginning to kick in during 2012.
As we've talked about New BAC 2 will kick in quicker than 1 probably towards the end of the year.
You've got improvements towards the end of the year in the Legacy Asset Services cost and then you've got any improvement that we see from the rate environment.
So I think as you look at those numbers that's probably the best jumping-off point and we're obviously working hard to drive those improvements with the categories that I just went through.
And we'll go next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions one on the housing.
In the past you have given a P&amp;L hit of a 1% or 5% decline in home prices.
I realize that your outlook is for stable.
But given some of the changes that you've done in your business and asset sales et cetera I'm wondering how that number is -- that P&amp;L hit has changed? If we look at -- it hasn't changed that much Betsy.
Right now we're looking at 1% hit being about $450 million.
That's comprised between $125 million and $150 million in our purchase credit impaired portfolio about $200 million through reps and warrants and about $125 million through the property values that get refreshed each quarter would be the way I'd think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you also gave a data point here on the servicing book and 8% decline in delinquent loan service.
Can you give us an update on what portion of the total servicing book is delinquent? If you -- we can get to that.
It's in the detail.
I'll have Lee call you with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last on severance.
Did you break out what the severance dollars were in the quarter? We did not but I can give those to you.
We had about $186 million of severance during the third quarter and that jumped up to about $239 million during the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that was split between the different business lines or how would I segment that between the business lines? Split between the business lines.
The most significant piece you're going to see there is within the Global Banking and Markets area.
We'll go next to Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I was just hoping to get some more granular color on the improved Basel III guidance.
Is the driver of that improvement there mostly the numerator improvement we saw this quarter? And can you give some color maybe on the contribution from an expansion in the RWA mitigation plan that you highlighted? Any chance for more detail there? Sure.
I mean I think if you think about -- and the way that I would think about it is that there a lot of pluses and minuses but if you go to Page 7 where we show you the balance sheet data we show you that Tier 1 common equity has gone up by about $9 billion during the quarter.
And in addition to that we've changed our guidance on the risk-weighted assets side by about $50 billion.
So I think if you take those 2 changes realize we would have had some increase in our common equity in our original numbers flowing through the income statement that if you look at those 2 line items and think about that in the context of $1.75 trillion to $1.8 trillion those are going to get you to about the 50 basis point increase in the guidance that we've given.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then thinking about monoline exposure and the capital relief that we saw from another firm announcing a settlement when you sort of back in the risk weights there it implies maybe 600% to 700% risk weight for monoline exposure.
Would that -- Is it right to think about that sort of a risk weight for you guys? Do you get a similar risk rate when you think about your monoline exposure? And is that exposure limited to the $1.9 billion that you disclosed in the last Q plus the $0.5 billion in CVA? I think I can't speak to it.
I saw the Morgan Stanley disclosure but I think you're referencing -- I can't speak to exactly how they're doing it.
What I can say is that if you look in our supplemental package we show a breakout of our monoline exposure.
We did take a couple hundred million dollars in the quarter of hits through the banking and markets area for monoline exposure.
And you can see at the end of the year I believe back in the supplemental page we show ourselves at about $1.3 billion of net exposure from a monoline perspective after CVA.
And once again we did take a couple hundred million dollars of expense during the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> But is it right to think about it a risk weight that would be in the neighborhood of 700% on that exposure for Basel III? Probably a little bit higher than that quite frankly.
But one thing is -- remember the difference between our capital base size-wise and other people's capital base is one of the different effects here.
We're dealing with $120 billion of Tier 1 common so it's just a different type of number.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Proportionally different piece of the puzzle.
Exactly.
We'll take our next question from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was going to follow up on that kind of line of thought.
When you think about the total risk-weighted asset shrinking $172 billion year-over-year or $75 billion quarter-to-quarter can you just talk about kind of what that is and what revenues are associated with that decline? Sure.
Let's go to the fourth quarter.
I think it's probably the best place to start.
And if you start on Page 8 let's just go through the individual items to give you a sense.
The preferred exchanges while we put the shares out there there'll be a nominal P&amp;L effect by virtue of having lower interest expense and lower preferred dividends.
The CCB sale during the fourth quarter as well as the one that we did in the third quarter there've been some things written out there publicly about the impact that that's over $700 million of a loss of revenues that go through.
And I think when you think about CCB you have to think about the offset to that which is by virtue of doing that there was over $14 billion of liquidity that came into the parent company that basically will offset from an interest expense perspective the loss in preferred dividends that we would have had through that business.
You move over to Canadian Card while the business clearly had PPNR associated with it once you get down to the bottom line from a net income perspective the net income contribution of the Canadian Card business was nominal.
You continue to move through the right-hand side of the page net income and DTA is what it is.
The reductions in market risk as you think about those reductions in market risk and work through that roughly 2/3 of that reduction in market risk were certain assets that were legacy and other securitization-type assets that we had targeted to sell that from a net income perspective didn't contribute that much.
About 1/3 of the 21 -- or excuse me 1/3 of the 18 basis points in market risk would have been VaR and other things that tend to ebb and flow with market activity.
So to the extent that the markets get better in 2012 there could be 5 to 10 basis points that comes back on there.
And quite frankly we would welcome that because it would be suggestive of the markets getting better.
You then move over to the asset sales and changes in loans on a net basis.
The biggest piece of that is our runoff portfolio within the consumer businesses.
And the contribution from that runoff portfolio once again is very nominal.
And then lastly you move over to 12 basis points of the other some of that is mono-related some of it's measurement-related.
And I think some of it is just quite frankly us doing a better job as it relates to how we approach Basel I measurement and there were some offsets on the other side.
So as you go through this the impact and to say that we're going to see any meaningful change in income based on what we did in the fourth quarter we just don't see that.
Recognizing that to the extent that the capital markets and the global markets come back you may see a little bit of a bump up there.
But other than that these are good numbers and there shouldn't be a significant revenue impact outside of what I just talked about.
Just to make sure -- there's revenue impacts but after charge-offs that lies before you there's no bottom line.
And that's the thing I think it's not been cleared to the people and so hopefully Bruce has clarified that one.
We'll go next to the side of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The settlement with the AGs which once again is rumored to be near Brian in your view does this mark some -- if we get this will this mark some kind of watershed event that will lead to sort of a quickening of the pace of the resolution of other issues out there? Well I think in the work that's gone on to develop that settlement.
You had the major servicers and then obviously the representatives of the Department of Justice then the state AGs and HUD and others work together to come up with a package of programs that we believe will be very positive in pushing the situation forward.
So I think you're right.
In hindsight we'll decide whether it's watershed or not years from now but I think the intent of those programs is to actually help drive the recovery in housing and how to handle customers.
So I think that combined with all the other programs and the million modifications we've done that combined with -- whether you agree housing is up or down but the general stability and frankly the passage of time and working through it I think these are good things.
And that's why we wanted to -- we and the rest of the industry have been trying to work this out really to provide that catalyst to keep pushing the mortgage situation forward.
So I think you're exactly right Nancy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well then part B of that if we get the settlement and things start to resolve then does profitability at your company sort of go on some kind of stairstep move up? Is there going to be some dramatic move upward as the housing issues get worked out? I mean are legacy costs going to come down that quickly lessening of litigation reserves et cetera et cetera? I mean is there going to be some point at which there is a big change in profitability of Bank of America? Well I mean if you just -- the question is how fast does it come through because just to implement the settlement and the work will take a series of months and quarters.
But I think the theme is exactly right.
If you think about the drag in 2011 we made a few billion dollars in the fourth quarter.
We had a $1.5 billion loss in our Consumer Real Estate business.
For the year we made $1 billion plus and we had substantial losses in the real estate business as you can see.
So if you take those losses out the core run rate of the company is embedded and is running every quarter.
The business we have there performing are driving profit.
And this has been a huge huge drag to this company both from expense side and on the charge-off side and everything else.
So it will come that way.
I just caution you Nancy to realize that this a lot of work a lot of people and a lot of -- particularly difficult because of what's involved and people and their homes and stuff that we got to work it right.
So I'll just caution on the speed but the principle is right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a question for you Bruce.
You mentioned a reduction in FDIC expenses in 2012.
Can you quantify that or just give us some color about what the expenses were in 4Q and how they should step down? Yes.
I would think about it as we got through the fourth quarter there was a true-up and as we go forward we'd expect that expense to be down a couple hundred million dollars in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter.
And we'll go next to Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the LAS costs coming down.
When you broke that $3.5 billion down into sort of $1.5 billion of litigation and $2 billion core can you give us any sense of what you think sort of a long-term run rate or normalized level is for that $2 billion core? I know you're probably reluctant to talk about the timing of getting there but when you do get there maybe even few years away what would be the right number to think about that $2 billion going to? So I think Ed to frame that think about the 60-plus delinquent units and the progress we made this year and the progress we ultimately got to get to to get to more normalized level that will take the next 6 to 8 quarters to get through that.
But when you get down to that level the number should be more in the $300 million a quarter versus $2 billion from the operating cost side.
And so a reasonable amount to service those loans even under the heightened servicing duties that will be embedded in the way you service delinquent loans going forward is that kind of number.
I just again say it's going to take us time to work through that.
You see the progress we've made this year.
You see the flows coming in slowing because -- on the whole servicing portfolio in terms of improving delinquency and then moving the stuff through the process.
So I think that's what we should be looking for from a $2 billion down to maybe a $300 million a quarter type of number.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second question would be on interest-bearing deposits.
Unlike other banks we saw pretty big step down in interest-bearing deposits.
I know some of that was probably intentional CD runoff but it really happened in most deposit categories.
Any color on that? And in your mind did that have anything to do with sort of the snafu around the charge related to debit cards that you then took back? Let's start from the broad strokes.
We saw an elevated level of account closings in the quarter elevated from last year fourth quarter but frankly by I'd say 20% versus last year fourth quarter '10 to '11.
But from '09 it's actually still down in the fourth quarter of '11 versus fourth quarter of '09 by 20-odd percent.
So you saw that so there's no question and that's way we pulled it back.
And once we pulled it back you saw that mitigate and that will carry us in the first quarter.
But from a deposit strategy just remember overall a couple of things.
One is if you look at our deposit pricing we have been very conservative as rates have stayed low to make sure that we continue to bring that pricing down.
In the retail world we're down to 20-odd basis points and if you look even in the high-net worth world we're down in that pricing and what we've made the decision was to have our customers seeing some of the short-term flows use the off-balance-sheet vehicles and things like that as opposed to on-balance-sheet.
So that was a strategy also.
There's a third part of this which is our balance sheet financing construct with a $1 trillion-plus in deposits with the amount of equity we have is that our banks are extremely liquid.
And so taking wholesale-oriented deposits both domestically and internationally we've been just cutting that back dramatically.
So if you look in the fourth quarter there's about a $20 billion deposit reduction that was engineered off of foreign time deposits and things like that that overwhelms the good core activities in the businesses really because we can't use liquidity in a sense at our bank level because liquidity is so strong and as we're downsizing assets we're creating more of it.
It's a negative carry.
So you can see our overall liquidity numbers timed to acquire funding is going up while reducing the aggregate amount of deposits from this more funding characteristics.
So I'd say that yes we had some impact from the $5 debit fee.
That's why we made a decision to reverse it.
Those impacts in the scheme of things will be manageable but more importantly the real deposit phenomena is we're seeing growth and there's no question as we saw the second half of the quarter more stability around the market.
The company we saw a kick-up even on the corporate side.
But the real engineering deposit has been both general rate conservatism i.e.
making sure we're making money for shareholders and doing the job for the customers but more importantly on the more wholesale stuff sort of bringing it down because frankly we can't put the money to work right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then finally about $21 billion of government-insured mortgages that are 90-days past due I think the whole analyst community is wondering what the risk around the guarantees on that are.
I know that question has been asked on a lot of calls to a lot of companies and it's -- sort of everyone's answer is well they're guaranteed.
Do you have any more color around that risk other than just sort of saying well we think the guarantees are there? I mean I think the only thing I would say to that I think is really just further support of that that a fairly healthy chunk of the guarantees are from product that was purchased from correspondents.
And when it's purchased from the correspondent it's wrapped by the government guarantee at that point.
So we feel very good about the fact that it's wrapped.
That was the basis -- I mean significant chunk of those that the wrap was around it when we purchased it and we clearly haven't seen anything that would suggest any differently.
Research Division</strong> You're not getting any feedback from the FHA or from any other kind of government entities that those guarantees could be at risk in conjunction with any kind of servicing issues that might be happening on those particular loans? No.
We do continue to work through the servicing piece of that with the FHA to make sure that we're in conformance with their standards when we go through the foreclosure process but that is separate and distinct from the fact that those mortgages have the FHA guarantee.
We'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up on the expenses and you've given a lot of color in terms of the initiatives and the puts and takes.
But as we think about the full year I guess you've got $17 billion run rate $1 billion of stock expense in 1Q.
And then just how quickly does the $17 billion come down throughout the year? And obviously the capital market is a wildcard but maybe you can just help frame what expenses are going to look like for the rest of the year as well? I think you would expect to see more of it in the second half largely because the LAS piece as you can see that the rate of working it down comes through.
And I think it's the severance cost and stuff that help offset sort of the incremental quarter-to-quarter move.
But I'd say we've got plans of bringing it down over the course of the year.
It's because of FAS the 123R expense in the quarter.
The reported number would not be much but you'd see sort of that core run rate go down almost linked quarter quarter to quarter quarter to quarter but it will be a little bit more backend-loaded just because the LAS piece takes us getting through.
Remember that the foreclosure look back which cost us $20 million a month or more in there you've got some other things that you got to get through to get to the other side of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of magnitude any numbers you can put like where you think you might be on a run rate basis by the end of 2012? Matt I don't think we'd answer that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately in the mortgage business you had some MSR gains I think about $1.2 billion or so.
How much of that was from hedging? And then it seemed like that might have included gains on selling MSRs which is -- I guess that helps in multiple ways.
But if you could just split up the hedge gains versus the gain on sale? Yes.
I'd say a couple of things that the -- if you think about the MSR when we went into the fourth quarter we continually look at and look to balance where interest rates are where mortgage rates are and what declines in interest rates will do relative to mortgage prepays.
And so with rates very low in the fourth quarter we lightened up a little bit on the hedge ratio.
Rates obviously went back up and we benefited from that.
The other thing I would say is that as we looked back and saw actual prepay speeds during the fourth quarter based on the interest rate assumptions that the prepayments were not coming in as quickly as we would have expected and so we adjusted our models to reflect that.
As you think about those 2 numbers I'd think about the $1.2 billion being split about 50-50 between the 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the sales of some MSRs is not meaningful in terms of...
No.
I mean if -- sometimes you lose a few bucks sometimes you make a few bucks.
But what we've seen is that the sales that have happened have been generally consistent with where we're marked.
And obviously the real benefit and I go back to the slide that we show that we track the number of loans and delinquencies the goal is to continue to shrink the LAS business as quickly as possible so we can get the expense.
And that's really what the MSR sales accomplish not so much any real gain.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess taking that to the next level you've exited or winding down the correspondent business but obviously you still have all the loans serviced and therefore the MSR.
Is there an opportunity to offload that portfolio which will obviously help the Basel III capital by a decent amount? Yes I would say across the board we continue to be aggressive in looking to move the MSRs.
I think if you look at -- we're starting to see more people bring these kind of packages to the market so we feel good that we got out in front of this early and that we moved a significant amount of MSRs.
And I think the other thing that you referenced to keep in mind is that we've reduced over the course of the last 6 months our MSR as we look forward to Basel III.
It's down over $5 billion.
It had been up around $12 billion or over $12 billion and we're now in the mid-7s.
So we're continuing to work that down.
I don't think you should expect to see as much sale activity over the next couple of quarters as what we saw close in the fourth quarter because a lot of what closed in the fourth quarter were things that were signed up in the third.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's possible -- I mean a lot of the big banks are trying to reduce the MSRs because of the Basel III restrictions.
I mean are the policymakers sensitive that if all the big banks are getting out of MSRs there's not really enough capacity absorbed at all and that could increase the cost of homeownership and mortgage rates and everything? I don't -- I mean it's not appropriate for me to comment on what the policymakers are saying.
I do think that the one thing that's interesting is that obviously the large servicers have certain standards that are prescribed by the different bank regulators that we've signed up for as part of the consent decree.
Obviously a lot of these sales do go to people that are not subject to that same regulations scrutiny and I think going forward it will be interesting to see how that landscape evolves.
We'll go next to the side of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Yes just in the supplement looking at the segment disclosure for Global Banking and Markets.
The allocated capital and economic capital is down like 30% to 40% year-over-year.
Allocated capital down from 47% to 33% economic capital from 37% to 23%.
And I guess 2-part question.
Part 1 is somehow that doesn't seem to sync with actual reduction in risk-weighted assets yet that we've seen.
And I mean why is the capital going down so much more if the risk-weighted assets aren't kind of going down in tandem? And then secondly I guess the question is if you look at the economic capital there of $23 billion is that enough capital to run a world-class investment bank given that JPMorgan allocate $40 billion and Morgan Stanley has $40 billion of tangible common and Goldman has $60 billion? I think you're now comparing a lot of different things because there's other operations that are supported whether that's Goldman or Morgan Stanley.
But we have a consistent methodology.
As the legacy assets have gone out from an economic capital cost that has been a very efficient for lack of better term reduction.
The RWA may be under Basel I may be 100% risk-weighted or things but the economic -- we have an economic analysis that we look in the risk-embedded net.
As you get the Basel II and III those 2 things come in sync as you know.
So the equities come down.
Let me be clear.
If this unit wanted more capital we'll give them more capital.
I think Bruce was clear about that.
And so there are -- whether it's their value at risk or whether it's their capital this is really due to the opportunities and things going on.
So there's drivers in the credit quality that's improved dramatically over the last 4 quarters in the unit.
There's drivers from the legacy assets think of things in there from the monoline positions we talked about the auction rate notes we talked about the CDO positions being liquidated and taken out.
And then on top of that there is the -- they've brought risk down because the opportunities aren't there to do it.
We expect that risk the good core risk the risk we want to go back up.
And as Bruce said 5 7 basis points of capital have been great because implied in that we'd be making money as opposed to losing money on the trading side.
And so don't think that this is a -- this is an outcome of a model that we run all the time and running consistently as opposed to a limit on our capital or anything like that.
And I think the other thing I would say that if you look at the decrease the one thing and we disclosed in the second quarter that I think you have to keep in mind is that the Bank of America merchant services business was moved from the GBAM business to the commercial business.
At the time that it was moved it was over $5 billion of value that's pure equity.
So a significant piece you're right that came down was by virtue of a business being moved not necessarily what was actually going on within the trading businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I guess going -- well both looking back over the past year and looking forward if you look at the risk-weighted asset mitigation can you break that up into how much of that is just getting rid of legacy assets that no longer support any current business purpose versus actually trimming back the capital lines to the various trading desks? I think I tried to address that when we spoke to the reductions in market risk during the fourth quarter when we talked about 2/3 of it within the market risk being from getting rid of certain positions including the securitization as well as some of the structured credit.
So once again I think about that market risk number being 2/3 stuff that we wanted to be done with and 1/3 there were less opportunities.
And like I said hopefully and so far the first couple of weeks in January we have seen more opportunities so that that number could come back but 2/3 of that should be gone.
We'll take our next question from Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Bruce's comments on the MSR and I understand what you're saying about what appears to be an MSR hedge benefit in the quarter.
I guess I'm just curious in an interest rate declining environment to write up the MSR seems a little counterintuitive particularly given that a couple of your competitors and the more large competitors in the mortgage business didn't do that.
And I guess as a follow-up on that if you end up getting the AG settlement or the industry ends up getting the AG settlement that's rumored to be near does that -- do you think that will require you and other industry participants to materially write down your MSRs from that specific event? Two things.
We don't see the industry settlement affecting the MSRs.
The second thing with respect to the MSR valuation I'd make a couple of points.
The first is that while rates did decrease the prepayment activity that we saw relative to expectations was less.
The second thing I think you have the keep in mind is that our MSR went from 50 to 54 basis points during the quarter which is significantly lower than all of our peers.
And I think if you look at the remainder of our peers generally people either wrote it up or wrote it down within a 5 basis point window during the fourth quarter.
So I think we were very consistent with what we saw.
But importantly as far as the capitalization rate we're the lowest in the industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just a question on Europe.
It looks like your exposure to the peripheral countries really didn't change very much quarter-over-quarter from your disclosure.
I guess I'm just curious as to some of the recent trends that have occurred since the beginning of the year if that made you feel a little bit more sanguine about what's going on in Europe and if that is flowing through your view of sales and trading and other opportunities for Bank of America this year? I think you asked an interesting question.
And I think if you think about what we've talked about the last couple of quarters that we moved fairly aggressively within the Global Banking and Markets area in 2010 to be positioned to where we wanted to be in Europe and I think got out ahead of it very early.
But your point is exactly right which is as we look at our company and our results that the single largest thing or how we're affected by what goes on in Europe is the activity levels that we see within our Global Banking and Markets area here in the U.S.
And your point I think is a good one that obviously November and December given the volatility were very difficult.
The new issue markets slowed down and it was tougher to trade.
And as we've seen some of the programs and at least some of the resolution that's happened over the course of the last couple of weeks if you look out at the fixed income markets they've picked up significantly.
The IPO backlog if there's a market it's significant.
And if you look at the loan business we're seeing good flows there.
So we're only 2.5 weeks into the year but clearly some of what's happened in Europe and how people are feeling better there has manifested itself into stronger capital markets in sales and trading during the first part of this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one final question.
Could you update us on the status of the European Card portfolio sale and if you were to sell that what your expectation is in terms of the Tier 1 common benefit? I think if you look at the aggregate of the portfolio it's about $15 billion in risk-weighted assets.
And the only thing I'd say at this point is that we continue to look good to go through the process.
Outcomes are stating the obvious.
We may do nothing.
We could look at all of it or there could be a piece of it that goes.
But as we go through this process given the capital and liquidity that we have we're going to make -- we're going to do what makes sense and just not sell something for the sake of selling it.
And we'll take our final question from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about capital and the upcoming CCAR process.
It seems like based on your commentary that this year will be focused on capital build and expense control that is it safe to assume that again you will not be asking for any deployment for 2012? We'll be clear with you.
We're not going to ask or make sure that we're well positioned with Basel III so your assumption is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the upping of your capital target on a Basel III basis by the end of this year does that -- I mean does that kind of show the confidence that you have in terms of not only earnings and the risk-weighted assets coming down but that there's more room to go and that you can really show improved kind of a roadmap to being in Basel III compliance through this process as well so that there's no additional actions that might need to be taken? I'd say 2 things.
I think increasing the guidance first is reflective of the work that we did this quarter and how we accelerated the capital build.
And once again if you go back to the balance sheet side you can see that we increased our Basel I capital our common equity by $9 billion.
You should assume that the Basel III number was very close to that.
So I think the first thing is that the raise in the guidance in large part was reflective of how we accelerated the actions that we did during the fourth quarter.
The second thing to your point obviously bringing down the amount of risk-weighted assets that we would think we have at the end of 2012 is reflective of your comment.
And the third thing I would say is that we've had this capital team together now for the better part of the year and I think I would say we're very pleased with how the team's working.
And the more you get into this the more you tend to find and we're working very hard to drive that forward.
I'd say the other thing moving past '12 and beyond you have to remember that BAC have been working for the last couple of years to think about as Basel III became clearer in '10 and in '11 and the SIFI and all the stuff became clear.
We had to be thinking long term about how you keep positioning the company.
If you think about the 3 major deducts from the numerator the financial institution stakes the MSR the DTA we've done a lot of work on 2 of those.
And the DTA will come down as we earn so there's leverage in that past '12 and out before the deducts become effective.
There's leverage in that.
And then if you look at the -- as Bruce ran through the denominator the piece that Andrew that people have to keep in mind is that this doesn't stop in 12/31/'12.
This -- the process goes on.
There's portfolios like the runoff portfolio and the credit book that was at a high at 120 is down round numbers now 90 runs about 4 billion 5 billion a quarter will continue to run over that time period.
There's things like the structured credit trading book.
There are other ways to optimize beyond that.
So what we're getting as we do the work that Bruce said and the work we've done the last couple of years is attacking the biggest things first but there's a lot of for lack of a better term smaller things that you just keep working on working on a lot of which is not core to what we do day-to-day and that's we've been pushing through.
And so you should expect us to continue to manage this as we have and continue to drive it forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it sounds like there are still some ticky-tack mitigation to go but nothing major and it sounds like one shouldn't be concerned about kind of a major kind of action in response to the CCAR stress test? Right.
We have one more question I think.
Research Division</strong> And then just separately just to pile on to the many questions on expenses.
I just want to be clear.
So expense leverage there is some this year but obviously top line is going to be more muted and mixed.
Do you need to have the capital markets businesses recover before you get positive operating leverage this year? Or is there enough expense leverage to get there regardless? I think if you look in the last couple of quarters if you break out the GBAM and you can see in the revenue the corporate banking profit there is really fairly stable and moves along.
And so we lost $400 million after-tax in that business this quarter.
We need that business to come back or we get to do more on expenses so we've taken some expenses down.
So I think that that -- but coming back bit from just the third quarter fourth quarter taken out all DVAs so the results recovered even in another difficult quarter.
So coming back doesn't mean back to some level that it was at the high point in the first quarter of '10 or something like that.
Coming back means $3.5 billion $4 billion of revenue and we start making money.
That's a lot of leverage in the platform because effectively between $2.5 billion and $2.75 billion you are under pressure to make -- that's where you kind of breakeven start making money as a practical sense on a pure trading side.
So we need that but if we don't get it we have go to the other side and that's what this new BAC II process is working on is what is sort of the right for lack of better term fixed cost structure even though a lot of it's variable for comp but what is the right fixed cost structure given what we see in the market conditions and opportunities.
And so we moved early on just sort of the marginal get-it-down get some people get some expenses down but then more fundamentally how do we reset the base.
And so -- but we do need that to get some of the positive operating leverage.
The rest of the business as you look at the consumer side and stuff they've been ground down by the revenue changes and now we got to grind -- move forward from there.
But if you look at the business whether it's Wealth Management whether it's Global Commercial Banking whether it's Card you can see those business performing well and they'll keep clicking along.
It's really fixing mortgage getting it back to profitability getting trading back to profitability and start to build off of $150 million base in retail.
One more question I think we have? We'll take our final question from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Actually part of what I was going to ask Brian was about the mitigation results post 2012 because that's something you have spoken about before.
But a in terms of -- on the mortgage side just going back to that for a second there in the reps and warranties you mentioned that no significant change or no unexpected change from the GSEs but you did note a little bit of a build in the amount of kind of unprocessed claims and yet you brought the reserve down.
So what is it actually that you saw that allowed you to bring the reserve down? Was it kind of passage through more of the book? I mean how should we think about that? Well the only reason -- I mean if you think about the reserve the reason that the reserve comes down is that because to the extent that you saddle up and pay things that you believe that you've owed it comes out of the reserve and the reserve comes down.
And I think the other thing I'd say is that as we said we have $250 million $275 million of rep and warrant expense so the reserve coming down was reflective of paying those things that were expected and accrued for.
And then obviously we had a couple of hundred million of expense over and above that.
Moshe remember this is a little different than other things you can think about in the P&amp;L in a financial service company in that there's really a sealed book of 2004 '05 '06 '07 '08 originations that you're working against.
And so the expectations as you -- we provided for all the activity you expect to see out of that whole pool and then -- so you're going to work this reserve down every quarter because you're using it to pay for stuff that you calculate in your expectations.
So it's different than credit or other stuff in that that's the expected outcome because it's a sealed book.
When you look at originations from '09 forward to '10 the delinquencies in our portfolios as Bruce said earlier are much better than you would have expected when you're originating in '09.
So at the end of the day if the loan doesn't ever become delinquent we don't talk it.
This isn't a problem.
The quality of the origination practice and stuff the products themselves et cetera so this is really '04 '08 really '04 '07 quite frankly sealed bid.
And on the private label side we didn't -- private label market stopped in '08.
So you really are looking at a sealed group of loans and that's why I'd expect the reserves to come down.
And agreed as there's more an impasse we are consistently applying the standards of resolving.
If people are more aggressive on what they put to us there'll be more impasse and we'll deal with it over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the AG settlement.
Obviously one of the things you talked about was on principal reduction.
How do you think about that as it relates to kind of current rate of charge-offs the amount that's sitting in your reserve and the prospective charge-offs? How do you think a change there is going to impact those items? We've been doing principal reductions for a number of years now.
And the thing is it has -- it's always based on a situation that the assessment is a net present value from the [indiscernible] is better than the alternative which will be foreclosed and taken through for the investors.
And so I think that is a clear determiner of what better value is.
So if -- and that's the basis of how you make determination.
So I think overall as I said before I think reaching a solution here it would be positive.
And as Nancy talked about earlier it is a rational set of criteria to get to these issues.
And I just want to be clear and I referenced it earlier the reserves and where we are at year end with respect to the credit reserves within the mortgage business are reflective of our expectations from what we know now what comes out of the DOJ-AG settlement.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
These factors include among other things changes in economic conditions changes in interest rates competitive pressures within the financial services industry and legislative or regulatory requirements that may affect our businesses.
And for additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Kevin.
Before Bruce discusses the results in detail I just want to take a minute and provide some additional thoughts on the quarter.
On our last call I listed the following areas of focus for our company during 2012: We want to focus on our capital levels we want to focus on our risk we want to focus on the cost base in the company and we also need to drive the core business improvement.
In the first quarter of 2012 we have made progress in each of these areas.
As you can see our capital and liquidity are at record levels in our company.
Our credit costs continue to decline and our cost structure is coming down and many of the business customer and profit metrics have improved.
So first from a capital perspective.
We entered 2012 with increasing strength in our balance sheet position.
We managed through the CCAR test and made significant progress on our regulatory capital ratios again in this quarter.
Our Tier 1 common ratio reached 10.78% at the end of -- at March 31 2012.
We continue to make progress on capital at a faster pace than we expected.
When we turn to risk our credit costs fell to the lowest level in nearly 5 years.
Reserve levels cover 3.6% of our loans and leases and 2x our current level of annualized credit losses.
The improvement in delinquent and nonperforming assets bodes well for further improvement in net losses as we go forward.
As you know we continue to take opportunities to reduce the remaining legacy assets in the capital markets business and we believe we have the strong litigation and rep and warranty reserves in the mortgage area.
On a day-to-day basis the average value at risk or VaR is lower in our trading business than has been some time.
Yet we managed to make similar levels of sales and trading revenue excluding DVA as we did last year.
The continued cost reduction remains at the forefront of our thinking at Bank of America.
We continue to streamline our company.
Our priority is to make our company work better for our customers our teammates and our clients and in the process reduce costs.
As Bruce will show you later we are achieving those results.
We're achieving good results in bringing down expense across our various business lines showing good progress on trends over the past year.
One area we continue to work is our Legacy Assets and Servicing area.
Personnel costs there are beginning to peak and after adding significant resources over the past several months to implement a single point of contact in other mortgage programs.
We expect these Legacy Assets and Servicing costs to come down in the second half of 2012.
Just for your reference in the first quarter of 2012 the expense in Legacy Asset Servicing was $3.3 billion.
As this cost increased we passed a milestone.
We have now modified more than 1 million mortgages.
In addition to the modifications the pace of the short sales deeds-in-lieu and other alternative resolutions continues to make progress and continues to quick helping us reduce our delinquent loans overall.
For the rest of our company we saw a continued improvement in our costs.
We expect to continue to achieve significant cost savings over the next 18 months consistent with our New BAC goals.
We're finalizing New BAC 2 Phase 2 as we have told you and would discuss those expected outcomes soon.
As you are well aware headcount drives our operating cost in the end and we expect to see continued progress in this area going forward.
This quarter we added more than 2 500 associates in LAS as I spoke about earlier.
But overall as we work throughout the company in cost management and every other area we reduced our overall headcount including those additions in LAS by over 3 000 FTEs.
That's on top of reductions 7 000 FTEs-plus last quarter.
At the same time as we're reducing our cost we continue to invest in our franchise and support the economy.
During the quarter to help move the economy along we extended more than $100 billion in loans to individuals and companies of all sizes.
Showing the fifth consecutive quarter of average commercial loan growth to corporate and commercial clients.
We've added client facing teammates in selected growth areas in our company.
We've hired 100 small business bankers in this quarter to further support our small business customers bringing the total of small business bankers since the program began to over 700.
In small business lending we continue to exceed all the goals we set for small business lending including the goals we announced last fall in cooperation with the administration and Small Business Administration.
In fact we're up 17% this quarter versus last quarter -- first quarter last year.
We've added 200 Financial Advisors to our team in the first quarter.
As the quarter progressed we added mortgage loan officers to focus on our direct to consumer mortgage business.
As we think about the consumer business as an area we'll continue to work and we spoke about we continue to respond to changing preferences to optimize our distribution network while investing where appropriate.
This quarter we added 0.5 million mobile banking customers during the quarter.
That's about 40 000 a week of pace and continues.
We now have more than 9.7 mobile banking-enabled customers.
In our industry-leading online banking area we added another 0.5 million accounts this quarter active accounts this quarter bringing us to over 30 million active accounts.
In addition through our ATM capabilities we passed a milestone.
With half the deposits at Bank of America going through our ATMs that used to go through our branch platform.
So overall our customers continue to do more with us through all the channels including traditional branches mobile online and ATM.
But they're using the branches less and that's why we are fine-tuning our delivery network.
We continue to align our banking center network with our customer needs.
And this includes reduction and consolidations which there was a net reduction of 51 this quarter.
That's part of the reduction we've spoken to you about of 750 branches over the next couple of years.
In select instances we'll consider branch sales in markets where growth potential and size don't meet our goals.
And at the same time we continue to expand in markets with high density where new locations can generate good results and we continue to renovate centers in all the places we do business.
We continue to use our leadership position to deepen our relationship with our customers and clients across all our franchise.
In the consumer business we opened 800 000 new credit card accounts this quarter half of which even with our focus on credit quality were opened in our branches.
Our innovative Bank of America card Cash 123 card introduced only 8 months ago now has more than 1 million cards outstanding and has achieved great customer acceptance.
In our brokerage and wealth management area we continue to make progress.
Brokers accounts and assets are growing nicely.
In our Merrill Edge self-serve area they've grown nicely year-over-year.
But most importantly our industry-leading capabilities in Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and U.S.
Trust we've seen solid long term assets under management flows this quarter some of the best we've seen in a while.
Our affluent and wealthy consumers of Bank of America is served by the best team in the business.
For the fourth consecutive year we have more Financial Advisors on Baron's Top 1000 list than any other firm.
When we turn to our commercial clients we saw higher utilization of lines of credit as our commercial customers continue to take advantage of opportunities as the economy continues to grow slowly.
Our business is serving clients on our Global Banking segment and our ability to offer innovative solutions from lending investment banking treasury services.
All the areas these clients need services just continuing to produce strong and steady profits and we have maintained our #2 investment banking position on fees.
For institutional investor clients we are encouraged to see a rebound on capital markets activity.
We had more than $5 billion in sales and trading revenues this quarter excluding DVA and that's a strong quarter.
Recorded positive trading-related revenue every single day in the quarter.
And this quarter represents the highest ever fixed income results in our company's history.
This team did a good job of continuing to build customer depth even in the uncertainty of the world's economic events over the past couple of quarters.
Let me close with this before I turn it over to Bruce.
The momentum around our strategy continues to accelerate.
We still have lots of work to do but the team is focused and encouraged by these results.
We're going to stay focused as we said in the first quarter call we're going to stay focused on the fundamentals this year and continue to drive forward the results for our clients customers and you our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Great.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I would just echo Brian's comments about the progress that we feel that we made throughout the quarter and would look to kickoff the presentation starting on Slide 4 of the investor presentation.
As we look at that and think about the quarter we'd note several key takeaways some of which Brian referenced.
We obviously reported $0.03 a share in earnings but when you look at and consider that number realize that includes negative valuation adjustments of $4.8 billion pretax or $0.28 a share after-tax which is the result of our credit spreads tightening significantly throughout the quarter.
In addition to those results we accreted significant levels of both capital and liquidity throughout the quarter and each of those metrics are at record levels as we ended the first quarter of 2012.
As we look at the operating results Brian referenced capital market activities and the capital markets generally improved throughout the quarter driving sales and trading results that were significantly above the fourth quarter of 2011 and in line with what we saw during the first quarter of 2011 once again excluding DVA.
Outside of the sales and trading business all of our business segments reflected improved profitability during the first quarter of this year relative to the fourth quarter of last year.
Credit quality continued to improve significantly provision expense at $2.4 billion for the quarter was the lowest that we've seen since the third quarter of 2007.
We've talked a lot about expenses.
Expenses did decline from the fourth quarter of 2011 despite the fact that we had higher revenue-related incentives as well as the annual retirement eligible compensation cost that occur during the first quarter of every year.
Excuse me and lastly I'd highlight we capitalized during the quarter on the ability to capture significant gains on some of our subordinated debt and preferred securities $1.2 billion pretax during the quarter.
If we turn to Slide 5 where we give a little bit more income statement information.
You can see the buildout of the net income of $700 million or $0.03 a share.
The one thing I would highlight when you look at the income statement that the pretax pre-provision number of $3.3 billion does not add back the $4.8 billion of FVO or DVA that we had during the quarter or for that matter any of the other selected items which I'll go through now.
As we look at things during the quarter that benefited net income I referenced the debt and trust preferred repurchases in addition to that $1.2 billion during the quarter we had $800 million of gains both within our private equity portfolio as well as on the gain on sale of fixed income debt securities.
On the negative side I referenced the $4.8 billion of FVO and DVA.
In addition to that we had $900 million of annual retirement eligible compensation cost that once again as you recall we incur each year during the first quarter of the year and roughly $800 million of litigation expense the majority of which was not mortgage-related.
If we turn to Slide 6 and look at capital.
We obviously built significant levels of capital from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of last year when we took our Basel I Tier 1 ratio from 8.65% to 9.86%.
We had another very strong quarter from a capital accretion perspective growing capital from 9.86% to 10.78%.
If you look at the components of that increase 4 buckets that we've laid out here.
The first roughly 7 basis points in capital by virtue of the fact that employees were paid a portion of their 2011 compensation in stock.
The gains on repurchases of sub debt and trust preferred exchanges and repurchases I referenced were 13 basis points of capital.
And most significantly during the quarter risk-weighted assets declined by $64 billion during the quarter which contributed 52 basis points to our benefit in our common ratio.
As you think about that 52 basis points of improvement think about that in the context 2/3 of that represented pure exposure reduction and roughly 1/3 of that represented declines as we continue to analyze refine and optimize our capital calculations.
And then lastly about 20 basis points of capital from earnings.
As you look at that earnings realize that the FVO piece of the charge that I referenced does not negatively impact or positively if it goes the other way regulatory capital.
As a result of this capital accretion that we've seen during the quarter we've previously given you guidance that we would expect to be at 7.25% to 7.5% of Tier 1 common under Basel III on a fully phased-in basis at the end of 2012.
Based on the improvement we saw this quarter we're very comfortable increasing that guidance to above 7.5% at the end of 2012.
If we move from capital to liquidity on Slide 7 you can see that during the quarter our excess liquidity sources across the company grew by $28 billion to an all-time record of $406 billion at the end of the first quarter.
As we look at parent company liquidity it increased to $129 billion during the quarter which is up $4 billion.
While at the same time on a net basis our parent company debt was reduced by $5 billion.
Importantly as we talk about liquidity we quote a time-to-funding metric.
That time-to-funding metric increased to 31 months during the first quarter and with $129 billion of parent company liquidity we're in a great shape to address the $34 billion of parent company maturities we have during the second quarter which includes the remaining $24 billion of debt associated with the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program or TLGP.
As you recall we worked hard.
We no longer -- or have very little parent company or broker-dealer short-term unsecured funding and as we look out at the balance of the year we issued just over $5 billion of debt during the first quarter.
Based on what we're seeing now we clearly expect that to be less during the entirety of the remainder of the year.
Moving to Slide 8 to look at certain balance sheet items.
I referenced the reductions in risk-weighted assets.
You can see that we had about an $8 billion increase in deposits during the quarter.
Our tangible common equity ratio remained very strong at 6.58%.
Tier 1 common grew by just under $5 billion to $131.6 billion which contributes to the 10.78% Tier 1 common ratio I just referenced.
Tangible book remained relatively flat at $12.87.
And you can see below our allowance continues to cover our annualized charge-offs by about 2x and our liability for reps and warrants remained relatively flat at $15.7 billion.
If we move away from capital and liquidity net interest income on Slide 9.
Net interest income increased sequentially from the fourth quarter to the first quarter by about $100 million.
As you look at and think about that change we benefited from about $500 million of less premium amortization and hedge ineffectiveness.
In addition $100 million improvement by virtue of lowering our rates paid on deposits as well as the contraction of our debt footprint.
And offsetting those benefits were reductions from declines in consumer balances and yields of about $400 million.
We turn to Slide 10 we've laid out here the changes that we've made from a business segment reporting changes.
I'm not going to go through these.
We've laid it out there.
We filed an 8-K last week.
That gave you a lot of information as to what those numbers look like with those changes.
And while we apologize for the additional work that it creates I would note that it very much aligns our business segments with the way that we manage both our customer relationships as well as the way that we manage the overall company.
On Slide 11 we highlight the results of our Consumer &amp; Business Banking segment.
Earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion which is an increase of 17% from the fourth quarter and was driven by both lower expenses as well as lower provision.
From a deposit perspective average deposits were up 1.4% or more than $6 billion during the quarter.
The rates that we paid on those deposits declined during the quarter to 20 basis points.
As we look at credit and debit card purchase volume volume had a seasonal decline of 6% from the fourth quarter but increased 4% from a year ago.
In U.S.
credit card new accounts grew by 19% from the first quarter a year ago.
I would note that as we look at the U.S.
credit cards there's been a significant change in the way that we open new accounts.
We're very focused on leveraging our franchise and online networks while scaling back what we do from a direct mail perspective.
Average loans during the quarter declined $5.6 billion from the fourth quarter due to seasonality divestitures that occurred at the end of the fourth quarter as well as the continued runoff of our non-core portfolio.
Lastly within the card space credit quality continued to improve.
U.S.
credit card losses improved for the tenth consecutive quarter and the 30-plus day delinquency rate declined for the 12th consecutive quarter.
Turning to Slide 12 and looking at our Consumer Real Estate Services area.
It reported a loss of $1.1 billion during the quarter.
That loss was driven by the cost of managing delinquent and defaulted loans in the servicing portfolio combined with costs associated with managing other legacy mortgage exposures.
The Home Loans business which is reported within the Consumer Real Estate Services segment did record a profit of $115 million for the quarter.
First mortgage originations of $15 billion were down from the fourth quarter due to our exit from the correspondent mortgaging business.
Importantly though while our production volume was the lowest that we've seen in 5 quarters production income before the negative impact of reps and warrants was the highest that we've seen in 5 quarters.
Our results for the quarter include $282 million in cost for reps and warrants primarily related to the GSEs.
$313 million of litigation expenses $410 million for expected assessments and waivers cost associated with our servicing operations as well as overall increased cost related to our servicing operations.
As you look at the MSR our MSR asset increased by $211 million during the quarter driven by higher rates and partially offset by borrower payments and model changes and ended the quarter at $7.6 billion.
MSR results net of hedge were positive by approximately $200 million in the first quarter and as you look at our capitalized MSR rate at the end of the quarter it was at 58 basis points versus 54 basis points in the fourth quarter and 95 basis points a year ago.
If you turn to Slide 13 some data that we want to talk about within our Legacy Assets and Servicing area that's within the CRES segment.
You can see on a linked quarter basis as well as compared to the first quarter of a year ago we continue to work hard to reduce the number of delinquent loans and find homeowner solutions.
Keep in mind Legacy Assets and Servicing now reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.
During the quarter we added more than 6 000 people both employees as well as third-party staffing in this area in the quarter alone.
As we look at the results and as we look to drive down both the number of loans serviced as well as the number of delinquent loans the number of first-lien loans serviced dropped 3% in the quarter and more importantly the number of 60-day plus delinquent loans dropped 6%.
Once again we're very focused on driving the number of 60-plus day delinquent loans down because as we drive those down it will give us the ability to start reducing cost within the segment.
In Global Wealth and Investment Management on Slide 14 earnings of $547 million more than doubled the results in the fourth quarter of 2011 as higher transactional activity and market levels drove higher revenue while both expenses and credit costs were down for the quarter.
Pretax margin for the quarter was strong at 19.8%.
Client balances up 4.8% from the fourth quarter due to higher market levels while our long-term AUM net flows were 8 -- or excuse me were $7.8 billion the second highest that we've seen since the Merrill merger.
Expenses declined versus the previous quarter due to the absence of certain fourth quarter items including litigation expense and other operating losses FDIC and severance expense.
Net income in Global Banking Slide 15 was up 19% to $1.6 billion versus the fourth quarter and essentially flat with the first quarter of last year.
Revenue increased 11% from the fourth quarter from higher investment banking fees equity investment gains and income from leasing transactions.
From a lending perspective average loans were up slightly as 3% growth in our C&amp;I lending to both large corporate and commercial clients was offset by planned decreases in commercial real estate in the DFS portfolio as well as trade finance.
Average deposit balances at $238 billion declined 1% due to seasonal outflows as well as certain liquidity management actions that we took.
Despite that our treasury services revenue remained strong at $1.6 billion up 3% from the fourth quarter and 8% from the year-ago quarter.
Asset quality continued to improve from the fourth quarter.
Net charge-offs declined $133 million or 44%.
Reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 10% to $18 billion and our NPA has dropped 11% to $4.1 billion.
As you can see on Slide 16 investment banking fees firmwide excluding self-led were $1.2 billion up 20% from the fourth quarter as an increase in debt and equity underwriting fees were partially offset by a slowdown in overall M&amp;A activity.
We were ranked #2 globally in net investment banking fees for the quarter and about 3/4 of our fees in the quarter were driven by activity in the U.S.
and Canada.
Switching to Global Markets on Slide 17 net income of $798 million increased from a loss in the fourth quarter reflecting increased sales and trading activity during the quarter.
Total revenue ex DVA was up $3.3 billion from the fourth quarter and in line with what we saw in the first quarter a year ago.
Expenses were up from the fourth quarter driven by higher revenue but down slightly from a year ago.
Excluding DVA net income in the first quarter would have been in line with what we saw in the first quarter of last year.
I think it's important to know that when you look at that consistency in revenue and net income it was done with risk-weighted assets that at period end were $192 billion down $87 billion from a year ago.
And average VaR in the quarter was $84 million down from $184 million a year ago.
Continuing with Global Markets on Slide 18 sales and trading revenues ex DVA losses increased $3.2 billion from the fourth quarter driven by our fixed income area due to improved market sentiment regarding the European financial crisis and an improved domestic outlook.
FICC revenue ex DVA was 3x the level in the fourth quarter as we experienced increases in almost all product areas.
Versus the year ago FICC revenue was up 12% ex DVA once again due mainly to improvements in rates and currencies.
In equities excluding DVA results increased 62% from the fourth quarter driven by increased derivative revenues.
However if we look back compared to a year ago equity results were down about 18% due to lower overall market volumes.
Once again we recorded DVA losses of $1.434 billion in the fourth quarter as our credit spreads tightened during the quarter and that compares to losses of $474 million in the fourth quarter of '11 and $357 million in the year-ago quarter.
On Slide 19 we show you the results of All Other which once again includes our Global Principal Investments business the non-U.S.
consumer card business our discretionary portfolio that's associated with interest rate risk management insurance and the discontinued real estate portfolio.
The $4 billion decline in net income versus the prior quarter was driven by the selected items that are listed on this slide along with litigation expense of $480 million.
One other item in All Other that on the income statement flows through insurance revenue is an additional reserve of $200 million that relates to the payment protection insurance claims that we accrued for in the U.K.
As you can see on Slide 20 total expenses were down from the first quarter a year ago.
And except for All Other expenses are down the year-to-year in part demonstrating our focus on efficiency across the entire company as well as the initial impact that we've begun to see from the first phase of our New BAC efforts.
If we exclude LAS FTE headcount for March was down approximately 5 600 people from December and down approximately 20 000 from a year ago.
Compared to the fourth quarter expense increases were for the most part isolated to increases in performance-related incentive expense LAS cost as well as business performance.
While I'm talking about expenses let me spend just a moment on taxes.
We would expect the effective tax rate for 2012 to approach 30% excluding any unusual items.
Embedded in that 30% or approaching 30% estimate is that we do anticipate another U.K.
tax rate reduction of 2% to be enacted in the third quarter of 2012 which should result in a tax charge at that time of about $800 million.
And remember though due to our DTA disallowance that $800 million charge will not impact our regulatory capital ratios.
If we switch to credit quality on Slide 21.
Overall consumer credit trends remained positive.
Net charge-offs in the consumer portfolio increased during the quarter but it was due to the absence of approximately $289 million in recoveries in the fourth quarter related to the sale of previously charged-off U.K.
credit card loans.
Excluding those recoveries in the fourth quarter net charge-offs would have been down by about 6%.
30% -- or 30-plus day performing delinquencies continue to drop and provision expense in consumer for the quarter was $2.6 billion and included a $1.1 billion reserve reduction.
On Slide 22 we show the nonperforming asset trends for both residential mortgage as well as home equity.
Residential mortgage NPAs were down 6% from the end of the year as pay downs charge-offs as well as returns to performing status continue to outpace new nonaccrual loans.
Home equity nonperformers did increase from year end due to the impact of interagency guidance to reclassify to nonperforming status junior lien loans that have a first lien loan 90 days or more past due.
This regulatory agency guidance resulted in an additional $1.9 billion of home equity loans being moved to NPAs.
We have not restated prior periods.
As you think about that change it's important to note that it did not have any impact on our allowance or provision expense as we track the underlying first lien delinquency status of our junior lien home equity loans and have previously considered the additional risk that these loans present within our reserving process.
If we backout this change home equity NPAs were relatively flat for the quarter.
On Slide 23 you can see that residential mortgage and home equity 30- to 89-day performing delinquent loans excluding fully insured loans were both down.
Of the $364 million decline in home equity $264 million of that was due to the reclassification to nonperforming due to the impact of the interagency guidance that I just mentioned.
While we typically see strong collections in the first quarter and while we believe that pace may stunt flow we would still expect improvement going forward.
If we turn to Slide 24 commercial credit trends we saw improving trends as I mentioned when discussing the results within our Global Banking area.
Including the provision for unfunded commitments we recorded a benefit to provision expense of $226 million.
That did include a reserve reduction of $595 million.
During the quarter both nonperforming assets in reservable criticized levels showed declines of 10% on a linked quarter basis.
And as I wrap up my part of the presentation before moving to questions I would just close with 4 comments.
We feel very good about the progress that we made in the operating performances of the different lines of business.
We closed the first quarter with record levels of both capital and liquidity and we achieved these while lowering the overall risk profile of the company.
And as we go forward given the operating environment that we're in we're very focused on continuing to drive expense levels down during the remainder of the year.
And with that we'll go ahead and take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes to us today from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Maybe we could get a little more granularity on FICC.
The trading numbers were great and pretty much across-the-board a big turnaround from last quarter.
I want to talk about which piece of the franchise you thought were strongest and maybe any help you can give us on the positioning coming into the quarter so we think about the rest of the year the right way.
Sure.
If you look at and think about the numbers that we gave you.
Within FICC I mentioned on both a -- or on an absolute dollar basis clearly the most significant area that we saw was rates and currencies.
Client flows were very strong and we saw them in 2 areas.
We saw them within Europe with some of the volatility in the markets in Europe activities were very high.
And the second thing I would say is that within the FICC business as you think about the high levels of activity that we saw in the investment-grade bond area that translated into opportunities to do more business with our corporate customers and that contributed to the results in FICC as well.
Outside of FICC the other areas that were -- that had nice increases during the quarter included our commodities area which we've been focused on and starting to get some traction in the growth there as well as in the mortgage area.
Those were the 3 most significant areas Glenn.
I'd say the other area that was down a touch during the quarter would have been the overall loan trading area as some of the revenue opportunities given that the new issue business in loans was a little bit slower this quarter than a year-ago quarter.
We didn't see quite the opportunity there but at the same time that that area performed very well.
Research Division</strong> It -- I don't want to put words in your mouth but it sounds like it was a pretty cash-driven flow as well as opposed to the derivative side? That's fair.
Glenn I think if you think over last 24 months Tom and the team have been continuing to build out the breadth of our platform across the world and we're reaping the benefits of that.
So if you think about this quarter this year versus last year all the prop trading was closed out by mid last year et cetera and then -- so that it's really client flows driving.
None of this is driven by really as you said less derivatives but more client flows more of the new issue activity more of the cash business.
It's a very core aspect to what we do.
So next quarter because this is a strong quarter in total revenues it may not be as strong but the way we're getting there is very consistent quarter after quarter after quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate that.
Bruce I wonder if you could just explain [indiscernible] or give a little color on the 1/3 of the RWA reduction that was the optimization of off-balance-sheet OTC assets? Sure.
If you go through that area I'd say we continue to work very hard in scrubbing the data.
There were certain lending activities that we do that are secured lending activities.
That as we work through we have the ability to optimize from an RWA perspective so we had some of that.
I would say as we look to and we refine what we do in the markets business we improve the ability to net as we consolidated certain trading type activities.
And we also work through and got third-party ratings on certain of the things which improved that as well.
So we continue to be very focused and think we've gotten through the majority of the optimization associated with Basel I as I referenced in the increase in our guidance we're very focused now on optimizing the balance sheet and looking to drive those Basel III ratios higher as we go throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay last one for me.
Reps and warranty claims continue to rise.
Just curious if you can give us an overall comment on a what's driving it? And b when we might see a leveling off? I think what I would say on that Glenn I would say it's really consistent with what we talked about when we discussed year-end numbers and with the disclosures that are in the slides.
The majority of the increase in the backlog of reps and warrants is in the GSE category.
It largely relates to Fannie Mae.
And if you saw and compared the third -- the balance of the third -- at the end of the third quarter of 2011 with the balance at the end of the first quarter you would see that the majority -- a substantial amount of the amounts that are coming in are for borrowers that have paid well north of 24 months.
And we obviously continue to have a disagreement with them about whose responsibility those are.
And we'll take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe we could drill down a little bit more on the expense side.
You mentioned the legacy mortgage cost start to come down in the back half this year.
Obviously the New BAC cost saves will probably start to accelerate.
When you put that altogether how do you envision the expenses trending both the second quarter and then maybe as we exit this year? What I would say as you think about that and as you think -- let's spend a moment just on what we saw during the fourth quarter and I think there are 2 items to note in the fourth quarter when you think of expenses.
The $900 million that I referenced is related -- as it relates to compensation-related expense that obviously as I said only occurs in the first quarter of each year.
So as you look out at -- over the next group of quarters that will obviously no longer be there.
The second thing when you think about expenses for the quarter over and above that FAS 123 amount the expense number for the quarter was up given that the accruals that we had based on the strong performance within the overall markets area.
So I think I would level set with those 2 areas as well as think about some of the mortgage-related charges that I'd referenced.
That the goal is as we work through the year that those would come down.
Once you move away from those expenses you move to the New BAC expenses.
If you think about New BAC 1 we had originally given guidance that it was $5 billion 20% of which we would recognize during 2012.
We obviously took that guidance up and said it would be greater than 20%.
So as you look at those consumer businesses on the line of business slide that we gave you you would expect to continue to see those expenses going down.
Obviously we're in the midst of New BAC 2 which we've looked to wrap up in the May timeframe.
And I would just reiterate what we've said there which is that we don't think the expenses will be as great as what we saw in New BAC 1 although once again given that they're not as interdependent on technology we'd look to see those expenses -- those expense savings to start as early as the end of this year.
So I would say that it's -- we continue to press through these.
I think we wanted to show you the line of business breakdown because I think it gives you a good sense within each of the lines of business outside of what we're seeing in LAS which Brian talked to about the second half of this year seeing savings as well as All Other which can be lumpy to the extent that there are nonrecurring type items showing up that you get a sense for where we're trying to go.
But clearly we would expect sequentially each quarter during 2012 for expenses to go down each of the next 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we think about some of the lumpy items like the litigation the mortgage rate assessments and maybe any restructuring or severance costs for New BAC parts 1 and 2 any thoughts on the magnitude and timing of those? Yes.
I think one of the things to keep in mind is that as we've gone through and as we're going through New BAC we've been absorbing through the P&amp;L the severance cost that goes along with the actions that we've taken.
So if you go back to the fourth quarter we talked about there being a couple of $100 million of severance and related items that we took during the fourth quarter.
We had roughly $100 million of those type items that we saw during the first quarter for severance.
As it relates to the other items the only thing I can clearly say about the lumpy items is that each quarter we accrue them and true them up for what we think our best views are and we'll continue to do that so it's hard to give any specific guidance about what we may or may not see in any one quarter recognizing that the accruals that we have on the balance sheet at this point are significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately on the capital side.
Obviously the build the last 2 quarters has been very impressive much more than many of us including myself had thought.
As we start kind of hearing you guys talk about additional changes from here whether it's like some branch sales or there is something in the media the other day about you guys potentially looking at selling the non-U.S.
wealth management.
As we see those things potentially coming up is that still about a goal of building capital or is it much more about just kind of rationalizing the franchise as Brian mentioned earlier.
Just how do we think about like what's driving the motivation for some of these actions that you might be doing or might be being speculated out there? Without addressing speculation if you look across the last 2 years Matt our goal is to get the franchise against the 3 customer groups and get out of the businesses which don't do that.
And everything we've doing is consistent with that.
Does it contribute to capital? Yes.
I'd say you shouldn't expect the things in the future to have as much impact as the things we did in the last couple of years incrementing capital and a lot of the capital generation really comes from the earnings.
In the case of Basel III remember that we -- our biggest difference between our peers is the deductions for disallowed DTA et cetera which accrete off over time and then the third thing was continuing to optimize the balance sheet.
So when we're making decisions about various aspects whether it was Canadian card or something like that it is in line with the strategy which is everything we'll have will be direct to customers focused on those consumers and where we have competitive strength.
And then the branches I talked about earlier it's really fine-tuning the franchise that we have top positions in the top 30 markets.
A lot higher than other people by numbers of branches things like that and continuing to enhance that position continuing to build out markets behind that but also focus a little bit more on the markets that there's growth potential and size and scale that we can take advantage of.
And we'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
One is on the New BAC.
Number two I'm sure you're going into this with a number in your head and given the first quarter strength would you be inclined to be kind of taking that down relative to what you had been expecting? I would think you can make some arguments for less pull back than maybe you thought before? I think one of the things Betsy that we're very focused on is given that the environment relative to when we had started New BAC 1 has started to improve a little bit.
We're very focused on not taking a step back but continuing to drive what we saw in both New BAC 1 as well as New BAC 2.
Keep in mind a lot of what New BAC is relates to simplification it relates to getting rid of work that doesn't need to be done and it relates to becoming more efficient.
So while I think I'm clearly on the margin this quarter you feel better about the overall sales and trading opportunity.
It's not going to change the rigor and discipline with which we go through New BAC 2.
And once again we think given that we don't have as much technology we'll be able to get after those costs quicker than what we saw in New BAC 1.
The other thing that I think is important and even though it's not part of New BAC if you look at both the Global Banking as well as the global bank or as well as the Global Markets expense levels you read some of the reductions that we made during the third and fourth quarters of last year outside of the New BAC process and you start to see some of the benefits of those flowing through and you'll see more of those next quarter as the people actually come off the payroll.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately on Page 9 you go through the NII.
Could you just give a little bit more color around the hedge that you've got? I know you've got one on the AFS portfolio and give us a sense as to how you're managing that right now? I mean largely a lot of those tend to be more pay fixed.
So I think if you look at the variability they will bounce around a little bit depending on where the rate curve is.
But I think if you look out over the last couple of quarters they tend to be within a range of several $100 million and they've been relatively fixed within that range.
And that's why we wanted to give you the guidance so you could get a sense as to what the core NII was backing out any changes that happened due to those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you haven't changed the size of that that much? Not at all.
And indeed I would say the other thing that we're very focused on is managing the interest rate risk as we look out to Basel III.
Given that OCI will flow through capital we've been I think very conservative in making sure that we manage this in a way so that at some point in time when rates start to move up that we don't have an OCI hit through that investment portfolio.
We'll take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> On your home equity portfolio I know it's been -- a lot of stuff has been -- new guidance out on -- pushed on recognizing NPAs some of those loans that were the first to have defaulted.
What do you do when you've modified the first? Can you talk a little bit about do you -- how do you treat the seconds? Do you modify the seconds also with the first? And how do you classify those seconds? Yes.
I think there's a couple of different ways to look at that problem.
Let me spend just a moment.
I'm glad you asked about the seconds behind delinquent first.
If you go back and look at the disclosure that we've put out at year-end with respect to our seconds behind delinquent first you'll see that at year-end as we took a look and did the work we had roughly $2.5 billion of current seconds that were behind delinquent first.
Throughout the quarter as we continue to work with -- and keep in mind the majority of our home equity portfolio where you have the first behind delinquent first we do not have the first so we need to work through the credit bureaus to understand exactly what the status of that first is.
And as we've worked through and done more and worked with the credit bureaus to understand those seconds behind delinquent first that the guidance and when we adjusted up our nonperformers to the $1.9 billion that's an improvement from what we saw at year end of the $2.5 billion that's out there.
I would say secondly as you think about and what we do through the reserving process with respect to both first and seconds.
Even though we may have and we obviously changed the way that the nonperformers are reported this quarter but we are very cognizant when we look at and have both our formulaic models as well as the imprecision reserves that we overlay on our portfolio that to the extent that you have seconds that have a delinquent first we are going to adjust our assumptions to be conservative as it relates to where we feel like were reserved.
And I think this new guidance as we came out and as we work through it at the end of the quarter and update it we feel very good about where we were at the end of the first quarter relative to year end.
The other thing that I would say when you ask about the different home equity portfolios is if you go back to Slides 34 and Slides 35 that we have in the investor deck I think there are a couple of important things to point out.
The first is if you just go Q4 '11 to Q1 '12 you can see that we continue to see fairly significant pay downs within our home equity portfolio.
And I think importantly if you look at the overall FICO scores as we've updated and work through the FICO models that the refreshed FICO on our home equity portfolio is now at 742.
So I think across-the-board with what we've seen in the quarter well I think we're very sensitive to that there's not the growth that we'd all like yet in the economy.
We've been very focused on the home equity portfolio and so far during the first quarter it's performed better than we would have expected.
I think the other thing to add to that is 2 things.
One is think of everything has been originated now for 4 or 5 years has been originated under fairly conservative -- very conservative standards and traditional going through early 2000.
So everything that's been added to the portfolio is very carefully underwritten.
And then the second is at the end of the day ultimately the cash is the cash.
So ultimately the person who either doesn't pay or pays on their first ultimately that first goes through liquidation and ultimately the second is dealt within that liquidation and the proceeds come in.
So moving around the timing and reporting is one thing but ultimately over a period of the courses of months and quarters it's the cash becomes the cash.
And so what's reflected if you look at some of these long term on Page 23 and these charts as you can see activity has been going on for many years now and that the simple matter is each quarter it gets incrementally better and this is the part of our portfolio we're still doing the most work because it's the slowest to fully recover.
If you compare it against the Card business or other businesses that have fully recovered and continue to have more upside this will take us longer just because of the nature of the process.
A lot of talk about this but ultimately it comes through in terms of the cash is the cash.
Research Division</strong> Guys that was a really great update and I appreciate it.
But going back to the question part of the question was how do you treat modified loans? Like when you modify the first how do you --  what type of activity you take on the second? And then how do classify that second lien? Well if there's -- up until the change in the guidance if you have a second lien that's current and you have a first lien that's delinquent or have been modified you're not going to adjust the second.
What the new guidance now provides is that if you have a first lien that's more than 90 days so as you look at the March balance sheet if we have a first lien loan that's more than 90 days past due we are now characterizing the second lien as a nonperformer.
Research Division</strong> And if you modify like under these various modification programs and if you modify the first would you modify the second also? And then would you classify that as a current or a TDR or a nonperforming loan? It's very difficult.
You have to realize Paul that there are 2 different situations that we have.
We have situations where we have both the first and the second.
And then we have situations where we have the second and somebody else may have the first.
And I think the important thing to keep in mind is that as we went through and came up with this nonperforming data we only take somebody off or only look at a loan where there is a nonperforming aspect to it.
It only gets cleaned up by virtue of the credit bureau after they've been current for a year.
We'll take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Brian one of the things that you emphasized was improvements in the core businesses.
Could you just give us some color on the businesses that are meeting or exceeding expectations versus those that are lagging? And what you're doing or maybe doing in the lagging businesses? I think if you think about the businesses across the 5 segments.
In the consumer area I'd say that we're very encouraged by the initial results and things like I said about the mobile banking enrollments and things like that which help us reduce the cost structure in the general retail business as we call it.
And so we need to improve that business.
All the regulatory changes that are well known to you Nancy over the last couple of years took away a lot of profit and an interest rate environment which we're familiar with.
But the reality is if you look at the underlying customer dynamics we're seeing improvements in online mobile the ability to fine-tune the branches the cost of the branches per dollar of deposit which is a metric I look at has improved and dropped again this quarter.
The rates paid in deposit continue to work their way down.
So it's improving but it's still at the $300 million to $400 million of profit.
You can see in the core consumer deposits business we need to make some upside from there.
Now let me flip to the place we're having good success there.
On the preferred side of that business which is the 8 million customers that have a higher annual income spent a little bit more with us.
We're seeing great uptake in the service model we created which is differentiated service model and the FSAs we've put in the branches which are Financial Advisors in the branches which do 2 things.
One is they serve clients who are sort of below the threshold for the affluent group and they also refer clients into the affluent group.
The mortgage officers working with those groups in the branches that have been sort of designated as preferred branches we're seeing great uptake there and strong growth and strong penetration across.
You can see in the Merrill Edge assets grown year-over-year.
You can see in the flows of customer accounts.
So that we're very excited about.
So retail mass-market is more fine-tuning the delivery system and continuing to get incremental growth there but the preferred is growing well.
The wealth management business I think is performing very well $500 million of profit margins are better than anybody in the industry.
We continue to see that in the core commercial banking business.
The Global Banking segment was put together to highlight that business with $1.6 billion in profits.
It's fairly steady provides good returns on a very capital-intensive business.
Obviously the lending has shaved off its commercial real estate exposure.
It continues to perform return above the cost of capital.
If we were talking last quarter we'd be talking about the Global Banking business needing to recover and we saw it this quarter.
So as you look across it a lot of work to do in mortgage and I won't take you through that.
Work to do in the core consumer retail franchise optimizing the cost but a lot of that progress is taking place and we sort of seen the bottom.
I think sort of last year as the final vestiges of Durbin came through.
Seeing that come up and then across sort of the relationship business in wealth management in the preferred segment of consumer wealth management and Global Banking seeing strong steady profits and then in Global Banking -- or Global Markets we saw a nice recovery so we're excited about that.
That all poured through as we removed the cloud of the mortgage business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bruce a question for you.
The core margin ex the market-related assets I think has hit 3% again.
Is that maintainable? And if I could just ask you to speculate or forecast I mean when we get back to a more normal rate environment what is an achievable sort of normalized margin for the company? So I think I'd make a couple of observations.
I think when you look at and what we had talked about before was that as we think about 2012 and as we talked about year-end as you think about 2012 the amount of NII we're reporting I think is a pretty good range if you back out either plus or minus what we saw from hedge in prepay.
I think if you look out at core margin and you think about where we are there's nothing over time once the rate environment changes with the exception of having less credit card in the portfolio that would change what we've been able to achieve historically in margins with one exception.
And the one exception that we're very focused on and one of the biggest opportunities we have with core margin is to continue to shrink the debt footprint that we have of the company.
And when you think about the $35 billion in maturities that we have in the first quarter or excuse me in the second quarter of this year as well as the amount of liquidity we have that outside the core businesses that we have where you can kind of project what the yields are the biggest opportunity we have to drive that down is using the liquidity to shrink the debt footprint which on average as we repay that tends to be 300 and 400 basis points on a floating basis relative to the underlying LIBOR.
I think Nancy if you look at the long-term average I think it's been closer to 3% across time.
Assume that the mix of the assets may shift and so it's safe somewhere below that but from the 2.50-ish we kind of run at now to -- we've told you before 2.75% should be easily within range with a short-term rate that moves up 100 basis points or so and we still feel comfortable that's the mix of business we have and in fact we may have tightened that a little bit as we've tightened down the balance sheet.
And we'll take our next question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Bruce just following up on that last point.
Just sounds like for this year net interest income was $11 billion this quarter.
It sounds like you're kind of running in place perhaps the next couple of quarters unless something changes on the rate front or loan growth? I think that's fair John.
I think just realize though that when you look at that if you look at the quarter but think a little bit about the benefit that we had during the quarter from the prepay and the hedges.
I would not assume that that's in the run rate during the next couple of quarters.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Was that a benefit or just a lack of a negative compared to last quarter? Was it a positive benefit this quarter? It was both.
It was a negative that swung to a positive during the quarter and like I said on a linked quarter basis it was about $500 million.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> What about just how much it was as a net positive this quarter? I believe it was in the mid-300s John.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on credit.
What kind of outlook do you have on the ability to keep up the current pace of reserve release? Do you expect the size of the reserve release to come down going forward? I think as we look out at -- and we look at the models John I think the right way to think about it is that we would expect that charge-offs would continue to decline as we go throughout 2012 quarter-over-quarter.
And I think what you're likely to see is that the benefit from reduced charge-offs is probably going to be more or less offset by lower reserve releases.
So as you look at the overall provision number going forward over the next 3 quarters while there may be a little bit of variability I think that'll be a pretty good proxy for you.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then one little nit pick question.
In the first quarter the diluted share count declined by about 300 million shares even though the stock price went up you issued shares to employees.
Is that impacted by the Buffett warrants or why would it have gone down this quarter? Yes you've got 2 different things going on.
And the simplest way that I can say it John is that in a quarter we're on a reported basis that we're north of $0.11 or $0.12 on a reported basis.
You're going to see the Buffett shares in and on a reported basis when we're below they're out.
So as you think about this quarter given that the impact of DVA and FVO and what it did to EPS they were out and then obviously part of the reason why they were up a little bit in the quarter was because of some of the exchanges that we did throughout the fourth quarter of last year as well as the employee shares that were issued during the first quarter.
Those are the things that comprise the difference.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay so those things were overwhelmed by the Buffett coming out this quarter because of the reported earnings? That's correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last follow-up on expenses.
The LAS this quarter was $3.3 billion.
First did you say that you think those have peaked? And then second given that it's kind of a restated number now with the restatement.
What's a good eventual number for LAS do you think longer term? I think previously you had said of maybe a few $100 million per quarter kind of a normal servicing over time? Yes I think we said sort of a $500 million a quarter.
That's more of a normal servicing based on our estimates of what our portfolio will be at that level.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's still the case the way you've stated that? Yes.
I think John we're seeing the -- if you look at the slide it'd show you sort of the work is about the delinquent loans and you're seeing those drop and we'll see those come down.
As we've said it'll take us the rest of this year and into next year probably through next year to get it more normalized.
But we're very encouraged by the amount of work that's getting done and the staffing levels we have.
Just so people are clear we talk about the 40 000 employees we have here.
We also have around 10 000 to 15 000 contractors that work in this business.
So if you think about our total headcount think of how much of our -- of 278 000 40 000 is deployed against this.
So when this comes down it will have a significant impact on the company's activities on a day-to-day basis.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that Brian you're not expecting to get from $3 billion to a couple of $100 million in a year right? That's a couple.
No it'll take us this year and next year and then it will really show up in '14.
It will keep coming down during this timeframe but I'd expect normal to really get it behind us is probably in the '14 just because we'll get the activities down.
It'll take us a little while to shape it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing for me was Bruce on the assessment of waivers back up to $410 million.
Just why is that up so much? Is this the reserve and is this related to your kind of dispute with Fannie Mae? There are a couple of things.
There was a chunk that we had that when we looked at that we set aside for reserves on servicing advances and there were other assessment type things like you'd expect with Fannie Mae.
So think about it in those 2 different context.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that something that you have an outlook on that could continue at that level or is it they're just impossible to predict? We would not expect it to continue at that level.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So somewhere between $0 and $400 million? Definitionally that's correct.
We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My question was on loan growth.
And I see Global Banking loans are flat.
GWIM loans are flat.
Consumer is down.
And it's looks like some sort of deceleration.
So are you seeing a swap from at least the large loans to the capital markets? Or how do you describe what's taking place? Is there a slowdown in the U.S.
economy? Are you deliberately backing away from some credits? Any color you can give would be great.
Sure.
I think what I'd say is a couple of things on that Mike.
The first is that we have a very strong both commercial and corporate franchise.
And obviously we're very focused and especially given where we've built capital levels now as we go forward to look to build off and to grow traditional C&amp;I loans both within the commercial as well as the overall corporate bank.
I think when you look at in 2 of the things or 3 of the things as I referenced that were slight offsets that we made a decision on during the quarter is that we've continued to work through and we've got our commercial real estate lending down to an area that we feel good about.
So going forward you wouldn't expect to see the reductions in commercial real estate that you've seen over the last couple of quarters.
The second thing I would say is that we did during the quarter given what the market opportunity was and where pricing and securitization pricing was to securitize some of our DFS assets out in the market which led to some of the reductions.
That's something that was opportunistic and quite frankly gives us a base to be able to go out and grow and do more with our customers on.
And then the third thing that was a little bit lighter relative to year end was on the trade finance side.
That that it will ebb and flow but as we've talked about before we're very focused on growing the international footprint as well.
So I think while on the overall -- from an average balance sheet perspective it looked kind of flattish.
We did see some growth within the areas that we're focused and those areas that there were reductions we feel like we're generally down to and have done the things that we want to do to the point where we can start growing off that base.
I think if you move to the consumer space I would just note a couple of things as people look at loans in the consumer space.
Obviously as we look at the home equity business that the balances were down about $3.5 billion in home equity.
We clearly are not doing a lot of new home equity lending now and the fact that those balances are going down we view as a very good thing.
The second thing is if you look at our supplement you'll see that the residential mortgage area is coming down.
Keep in mind that's not due to residential mortgages that were originating as we look to manage the overall risk profile and interest rate profile there's a constant look at do we want to own whole loans or do we want to own securities? And at the end of the quarter at the first quarter we were a little bit more into securities than whole loans.
And then the last thing I would say on loan balances is just within the Card business that seasonally your card balances obviously tend to peak in the fourth quarter.
So the declines you saw in the Card business in the first quarter were largely seasonal.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up.
It seems as though your market share in cards and mortgages has declined.
Do you agree or disagree? And if you agree is this a deliberate move? Are you underperforming what you'd like to achieve? Or is this simply prudent given what you're seeing in the market? So Mike if you look at -- let's take mortgage first.
If you look in the fourth quarter we did about $15 billion of direct to consumer originations and in the first quarter we did about the same.
So the real steep drop in "our market share" out there has been on the correspondent side just going to 0.
So if you look year-over-year it dropped $20-odd billion in production.
That is an absolute deliberate move.
We will move -- we will be in a direct to retail channel for both our general customers and then also our affluent and wealthy customers.
It's a business we think we have an advantage in and we'll continue to drive that.
That being said as we retool that business we underperformed on a direct to retail.
And we expect that and as we moved through each quarter each month of the quarter we saw improved results in just straight volumes and we've added more loan officers.
We've focused the people to getting several thousand in the quarter of referrals from the branches and working with their teammates there.
We've staffed up on the fulfillment side to increase our throughput.
You'd remember there's some noise about a reservation system earlier on.
So we underperformed but we're doing exactly what we wanted which is to focus on direct to retail.
The team's working hard.
David Darnell and the team and you'll see us improve there.
But the correspondent is behind us and as I said if you want that business back and go out and buy in the market is not actually a customer-driven business in the way we look at businesses here in the company.
When you go into the Card business I think we have been continuing to fine-tune and have sold off some portfolios.
We're providing the card as a backbone to other companies.
Meaning the financial companies and then we sold those portfolios back to them as part of fine-tuning the business.
I'd say that we have performed as anticipated in card.
We brought the direct mail down.
This quarter we did 800 000 new cards as I said half through the branch system with the credit quality you can see in our numbers which is outperforming what we had expected as we put the cards on over the last couple of years.
So we should expect to hold our share there and start to drive it.
But we still are in the straight raw market competitiveness of 15% versus 16% or something like that in the fourth quarter.
It really is based on us continuing to shape the affinity groups and some of the vestiges in the U.S.
business of the past.
But you should expect that to stabilize now and start to grow.
That's been the strategy we told you we would start in 2009 honestly and it's behaving the way we said.
That being said there's plenty of opportunity for us drive the Card business in our franchise.
So we have the 800 000 originations the 1 million Bank of America Cash 123 cards.
We will drive that business back up but again it'll be focused on the customers.
Our next question comes from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted real quick hit on the tax rate.
I got to 9% for the quarter.
Is that right? And what's driving that? And were there any unusual items in there that when you hit on your 30% tax rate for the year we should sort of consider when we think about the full year tax rate? Yes I think the thing when you look at taxes for the first quarter what you have to keep in mind is that because of the large DVA and FVO charges that went through the P&amp;L the pretax income after those charges was reduced.
So you have a couple of preference items in the first quarter that when they're compared on a book basis to a relatively low pretax income number it tends to distort the effective tax rate.
So as we -- and I'd just say what I said during the presentation as you have a more normalized quarter without the DVA and the FVO we would expect the rate for the year to approach 30%.
And the one unusual item that I would note in that rate approaching 30% is that we'll have the $800 million adjustment for the U.K.
tax rate given that the tax rate is going down in the jurisdiction where we have a DTA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the rep and warranties it seems as though there's a new lower level provision that you guys tend to be running at which really reflects BofA's view.
Yet we've got steadily increasing Fannie claims and I'm just kind of curious how those resolve themselves and maybe also how much of those claims are tied to MI through rescissions or cancellations of insurance? Yes I mean at this point it's a couple of things.
The first is that -- and as we talked about both at year end and this quarter we continue to adjust and provide reserves for the MI rescission and continue to work through that process with not only Fannie but other places where MI is topical and our reserves reflect that.
I think with respect to your original question as it relates to reps and warrants we obviously look at and provide the rep and warrant each quarter based on what we're seeing and based on our interpretation of the documents which I can assure you we've had numerous people look at and feel very strongly with where we are.
I don't think it's probably appropriate for me to reflect or to comment on what Fannie's view on that may be.
Research Division</strong> Oh sure.
That's fair.
I guess I'm just trying to understand as far as the MI impact is concerned.
Is it that BofA is providing the rep and warrant that valid insurance exists? And then therefore the GSE has a claim against BofA? And then BofA has to go pursue that actual -- has then a claim against the MI? Can you help me understand how that works? You're right.
And in our disclosure we talked about in certain cases where we do need to go and pursue and work with the different reinsurers to get the payments that were due.
And what I would say is that each quarter as we go through this the reserves that we put up as it relates to the risk of mortgage rescission the reserves apply both to the GSEs or anywhere else that that could be a risk for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And they would reflect if there is any deterioration in counterparty those reserves would reflect that as well? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
okay great.
And then last for me on capital markets.
You made some comments about VaR but just if you could talk about maybe what happened with risk in the quarter? Did you guys take on risk particularly in FICC? Which given what happened if you took it on at the beginning of the quarter certainly it would have worked out well.
And then maybe give us an idea of how much of a tailwind for FICC you guys benefited as far as the tightening credit spread environment? A couple of things.
The first thing that I would say is that the -- as I referenced the largest driver in the FICC business this quarter was our rates and currencies area.
And that strength that we saw in the quarter was due solely or due largely I guess I would say to client flows where we were doing more with our clients during the quarter.
So that is good core flow business for us that we saw during the quarter.
And I think that if you look at both the risk-weighted assets and the VaR they support that in that what we're saying is that we're able to take less risk and make -- and if you look at both RWA as well as VaR they were roughly half of what they were a year ago and we were still able to generate the same level of revenue.
And I think when you think about that revenue number and you think about the level of risk what it's reflective of is the fact that our client-facing businesses during the first quarter were very strong.
And I think -- the only thing I'd say is that as we've continued to build the balance sheet build capital and as we've seen our credit spreads tighten the one thing I would say is that we are seeing more and more people that are doing more and more business with us.
And we feel very good about that.
Just to be clear we have not changed the limits this business operates on in 7 or 8 quarters.
So the ability to do what they need to do to participate in the market is there and they're making the choices based on opportunities and capabilities that they have to do it.
And are well within the risk measures and producing as much revenue.
So I think the team's doing a great job of really driving the business along the way that you would want them to.
We'll take our next question from Moshe Orenbuch with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the GSE activity.
2 separate points.
First of all with all the -- despite all the rhetoric about the GSEs kind of expanding what they're looking at it looks like this quarter actually had a smaller kind of new claims from the GSEs than the last -- at least the previous 4.
But at the same time you're kind of activity either approving repurchases or rescinding them were both kind of much much lower.
Could you talk about what's actually going on there and what it's going to take to get some more of this resolved as we go forward? What I would say is generally -- and any one quarter can bounce around a little bit.
But just to reiterate I would say that the activity that we saw during the first quarter was not significantly inconsistent with what we saw during the fourth quarter.
But you're right and the data you just quoted you would expect to see the number of repurchases as a percentage to decline to the extent that you disagree with what's coming in.
Moshe you're assuming that a loan in every quarter for the last 10 quarters is exactly what they send in is the same what's happened is it's different.
And so the result of the activity is different because what is sent after being sent is different.
It's not that the volume is different.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
A couple of other quick things.
First actually you mentioned before the correspondent business and the Mortgage business kind of being focused on the core Bank of America customer.
Is there any thought about thinking about that in the credit card business as well and kind of doing something with some of the affinity business the national credit card business that doesn't kind of overlap with your customer base? Just to be clear.
The correspondent business is out of the Mortgage business.
So it's a direct to retail business.
In the Card business we have an affinity group and we've narrowed that group of affinities over the last 3 years to be consistent with where we think it adds value to the customer and to the company.
And so we have major affinity programs which are very valuable to us that we continue to drive growth in.
What we've done is pared off several thousand of programs which the economics just didn't make sense.
So we have achieved that.
I think those are affinities with big brands that we benefit by as a company as opposed to affinities frankly where we are providing a credit card for another financial institution that provides a core product to their customers.
That's what we really gotten out of and then smaller groups that just didn't have the volumes to make sense.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one quick last thing and that is obviously some terrific progress on the capital front.
I didn't catch if you had said this before but do you -- have you  changed your expectation of kind of year end risk-weighted assets under Basel III or has been the improvement -- has the improvement been kind of more from the numerator or is it denominator-driven also? If you look at it it's going to be a little bit of both because as I referenced as you think about what we got through and once again under both Basel I as well as Basel III we are in a disallowance under Basel I of DTA and in Basel III we're over the 15% sin bucket.
So as we generate net income and as you think about the piece that's FVO not being in it the numerator is benefiting.
And then secondarily the denominator as we continue to work through and optimize it will improve.
We obviously have taken the guidance on Basel III at year end fully phased-in up above 7.5%.
We will look to give you greater detail on both numerator and denominator when we look at Basel III at the end of the second quarter.
We'll take our next question from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> As a question on LIBOR there's been some ruckus overseas on how it's set and regulators being concerned about potential I guess issues with how it's set.
Can you comment on how BAC participates in the setting of LIBOR.
And if you have reserves or any concerns over this process as it plays out? This had been going on a while.
We wouldn't comment.
I'd leave it to our lawyers to talk to you about it.
But that's been going on for a couple of years.
Our next question comes from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to circle back on the margin NII commentary.
In terms of -- I think you're basically saying that we should think about NII basically holding.
But I want to go back this quarter you had the benefit that's not going to repeat.
But then what were the drags? Again you had mentioned earlier maybe I missed it in terms of some consumer yield pressure but then is there also a core asset yield pressure because of the low rate environment? No the biggest thing Andrew if you think about it was that the -- and keep in mind we're thinking about NII now not pretax income.
The biggest difference in the quarter that was a drag was the fact that we had over $8 billion of card receivables from the Canadian card business but that sale closed at the beginning of December.
So as you think sequentially and you think about those consumer balances and consumer yields that was the biggest piece of it and obviously the number that we've put out there was that it was to the tune of about $400 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of outside of that commercial pricing competition asset yield pricing asset yield pressure is that manageable it seems like? I think it's manageable.
I think the only other thing that I'd say is that as you look out at NII and when you run the size of the investment portfolio that we run from a rate management perspective as rates bounce around and as some of those mortgage and other type securities yields either go up or down will fluctuate with that.
But there was nothing really notable for the quarter from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of looking at the pre pre this quarter came in just under on a core basis maybe $7 billion materially better than last quarter which was just under $4 billion.
But then this quarter obviously helped by FICC in mortgage banking that may not repeat.
I mean how should we think about that kind on a core run-rate basis? And will that improve largely now due to expenses continuing to improve based on Phase 1 and then Phase 2 next year? I think there's a couple of things.
Obviously in any one quarter if you think about variables you've got on the revenue side the one variable piece that we have in revenues is going to be what you see from a sales and trading perspective.
That there is a level of variability in that either up or down.
I think from a revenue perspective given that you've backed out the different security gains and private equity gains when you quoted that $7 billion that's going to be the one number from a revenue line that does have the variability to it.
And then I think your point is exactly right that what we can do to look to drive that number up is largely going to be on the expense side.
Research Division</strong> And do you still have confidence in maybe it's an outdated range now of 45 to 50 on an annual basis? Is that still valid or have things changed enough that that needs to be rethought? I think on the prior calls we brought -- that range has been a lower range just because we sold off a lot of the credit card and stuff when that number was originally published but I think as we said last quarter we're continuing -- confident that we can push the number given the time and the interest rate environment and over $10 billion a quarter but it's going to take that normalized interest rate environment and economy growing at 3%.
As opposed to the economy growing at 1.5% or 2% which is what we've been consistently seeing.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just on capital.
Any updated thoughts on potential deployment? May be still too early but may be more confidence now that bumping up your goal and target for Tier 1 common Basel III of 7.5% by the end of the year.
Any updated thoughts on when or how or maybe some thoughts also kind of lessons learned from what happened with Citigroup? I think we were clear in the CCAR.
We said and we came through that test and we were clear before that we didn't apply for anything in 2012.
I don't think we changed our thinking that as we work to make sure that we drive towards being Basel III compliant over the next couple of quarters.
So I think we're -- we have a high confidence in our capital a high confidence that we have the right capital and high confidence that we're building at a good pace that we knew before but now you all see.
And so I think we'll just keep playing it through the end of this year in this way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And too soon to call until maybe towards the end of the year where capital stands ultimately in the outlook macro-wise is that fair? I'm sorry I didn't hear the very end of that.
Research Division</strong> Is that fair to assume kind of too soon to call in terms of is 2013 the year? In terms of maybe starting at least you think about it or at this point? We'll let you know when we -- we've said consistently we'll apply when we know we'll get approved and we can work closely with our regulators to get that through and we'll see how we proceed through this year and the next.
That was our last question.
I'd like to thank you for participating.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
This concludes today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Thank you and have a great day.
And welcome to today’s program.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note that today’s call is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt.
Please begin sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements and please review slides two and three with information around forward-looking statements.
And for additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Great.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start on slide four.
And as you all saw this morning we reported net income of $2.5 billion for the second quarter or $0.19 a share on a diluted basis.
You will notice at the bottom of the page we do not have any selected items that we brought forward during this quarter.
And given that the list is relatively short we’ll just hit those as we go throughout the presentation within the lines of business.
We go ahead and move forward to slide five.
We clearly believe that the results in the second quarter demonstrated our ongoing momentum on several fronts.
Capital continued to strengthen and is at record levels by most metrics.
Tier 1 common capital increased $2.5 billion to $134 billion and ended the quarter at 11.24% under Basel 1.
We estimate the Basel 3 Tier 1 common equity with 8.1% at the end of June on a fully phased-in basis based on our current understanding of both U.S.
market risk rules and international Basel 3 guidelines.
If you recall we had estimated we would be in excess of 7.5% under Basel 3 at the end of the year.
So based on where we came out at the end of quarter we’re quite pleased with the progress we've made so far.
While we increased capital we also continue to bring down our long-term debt reducing it by $53 billion in the second quarter through both maturities as well as liability management actions that we’ll get into throughout the presentation.
Likewise we made progress on expenses which declined $2.1 billion from the first quarter of which approximately $900 million was due to the absence of an annual retirement eligible stock-based compensation awards that impacted the first quarter.
As we said last quarter while revenue growth correlates in large part with the health of the overall economy the two areas that we clearly have the ability to control are our expenses as well as our debt cost and we aggressively addressed those during the second quarter.
Asset quality also continued to improve in almost all categories.
This improvement combined with decreased levels of distressed loans drove provision expense to be its lowest level going all the way back to the first quarter of 2007.
Interest rates did continue to be a headwind.
And as you can see the decrease in loans and rates during the quarter did negatively affect net interest income.
The European crisis and seasonality are impacting the markets related businesses driving those revenues lower compared to the first quarter of 2012.
However non-interest income did reflect improved results in some of our consumer businesses which we’ll get into as we go through the presentation.
If you turn to slide six as we look at regulatory capital under Basel 1 you can see that $2.5 billion of earnings along with a $27 billion decline in risk-weighted assets or about 2.3% of risk-weighted assets drove the capital improvement from 10.78% at the end of the first quarter to 11.24% at the end of the second quarter.
If you look at the left hand chart since June of 2011 one year ago our Basel 1 Tier 1 common ratio has increased by approximately 300 basis points.
Turning to slide seven and providing a Basel 3 update as we near the 2013 implementation period for Basel 3 we’ve estimated our Tier 1 common equity ratio and its components to provide a better understanding of where we are relative to the Basel 3 guidelines that will be fully implemented at the beginning of 2019.
The estimate we provide here is for BIS Basel 3 guidelines in the final U.S.
market risk rules.
If we reported Basel 3 as of June 30<sup> </sup>on a fully phased-in basis we estimate that Tier 1 common equity ratio would be 8.1% we estimate that our Tier1 common equity would be approximately a $127 billion while our risk-weighted assets would be $1.566 trillion.
As we think about the important differences between Basel 1 and Basel 3 capital or the numerator the differences include capital deductions related to the MSR our deferred tax assets and the inclusion of unrealized gains and losses on debt and equity securities recognized in other comprehensive income.
As you are well aware these items will be impacted by future changes in both interest rates as well as overall earnings performance.
We turn to slide eight on funding and liquidity you can see that long-term debt during the quarter was down $53 billion while our overall Global Excess Liquidity Sources only declined by $28 billion to $378 billion at the end of the quarter.
At the parent company long-term debt during the quarter came down by approximately $40 billion.
That $40 billion reduction was approximately $34 billion of parent company maturities of which we call out $24 billion of that related to TLGP debt.
At the end of June all of our TLGP related debt has been repaid.
In addition to the maturities we brought in about $5.5 billion through liability management actions on our TRUPs and subordinated debt that are outstanding.
The benefit in the quarter from that was a little over $500 million.
As we look forward those liability management actions will result in net interest income savings of approximately $100 million in 2012 and $180 million in 2013.
As we look at parent company liquidity it remained very strong at $111 billion at the end of the quarter.
And as we look at time to required funding we finished the quarter at 37 months; the highest in the company’s history.
During the quarter we didn’t issue any long-term unsecured parent company debt and I doubt that we will do so during the balance of 2012.
What we will continue to do is to bring down long-term debt both by paying off debt at maturity as well as active liability management consistent with our overall goals of continuing to optimize net interest income.
In fact we’ve already announced calls of another $5.2 billion in both TRUPs and sub debt which we expect to complete during the third quarter of this year.
In addition to these calls maturities of $23 billion of which approximately $15 billion at the parent will come due during the second half of the year which will also help reduce both long-term debt balances as well as associated interest expenses.
I’ll spend a minute on page nine on a couple balance sheet highlights.
You can see total assets were down about 1% to $2.16 trillion while total risk-weighted assets were down over 2% to about $1.19 trillion.
Our tangible common equity ratio improved 25 basis points in the quarter from 6.58% to 6.83%.
Intangible book value improved by $0.35 during the quarter to $13.22 from $12.87.
We turn to slide 10 and look at net interest income on an FTE basis.
It was $9.8 billion during the quarter down $1.3 billion from the first quarter.
The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to higher premium amortization expense associated with FAS 91 as well as market related hedge ineffectiveness.
If you recall rates rose in the first quarter of this year and that led to lower premium amortization and favorable hedge ineffectiveness that benefited NII by about $400 million in the first quarter of this year.
However lower rates in the second quarter had a negative impact of approximately $500 million which resulted in a combined negative impact of approximately $900 million to NII from the first quarter to the second quarter.
If we back out those market related swings net interest income decreased by approximately $400 million during the quarter due to lower loan balances and yields and lower trading net interest income which was partially offset by the benefit of the lower long-term debt that I just mentioned.
In the near term given long and rate levels at the end of June we estimate that quarterly net interest income will start at a base of approximately $10.25 billion before the impact from liability management actions.
Second quarter parent debt maturities and liability actions plus third quarter announced redemptions and calls will benefit quarterly interest income by approximately $300 million of which $60 million was captured in the second quarter of this year.
To state the obvious if rates increase from the end of June it will have a positive impact and obviously lower rates would have a negative impact.
We turn to page 11 and look at overall loan activity total loans for the quarter declined by approximately $10 billion from the first quarter or about 1%.
If you look at the composition of the loan balances you can see ending commercial loans actually grew by about $4.1 billion or 1.3% from the first quarter of 2012.
That growth was attributed to increases in our commercial and industrial loans and was partially offset by about a $1.4 billion reduction in commercial real estate.
If you go to the bottom of slide 11 you can see ending consumer loans declined approximately $14 billion from the first quarter of 2012.
I’d like to spend a minute on that.
If you go and look at the bar chart we’ve talked throughout the last couple of quarters about run-off portfolios that we’re looking to run-off that do not produce any meaningful level of pretax income you can see we had about $4.4 billion of that during the quarter.
In addition residential mortgages were down about $4.4 billion.
Keep in mind as we look at those mortgage portfolios we can either invest in mortgages or securities and during the quarter we came up in securities a little bit down in loans.
Over and above that about $3.4 billion of loan sales that had been targeted that wrapped up at the beginning of the second quarter.
If you back those three items out and look at consumer loans on a net basis that leaves us with about a $2 billion reduction during the quarter or well below 1%.
On slide 12 we highlight the results of the Consumer and Business Banking segment.
Earnings were $1.2 billion a decrease from the first quarter driven by lower net interest income lower reserve releases and higher litigation expense partially offset by higher non-interest income.
Non-interest income did increase from the first quarter due to a couple of factors; our consumer spending including higher interchange the gain on certain card portfolios and the impact of our consumer protection products.
On slide 13 we list some key indicators for our Consumer and Business Banking for the quarter.
average deposit balance growth was strong increasing by over 2% or $10 billion compared to the first quarter of 2012.
As we continue to focus on cost and look to optimize our delivery network our branch count came down by 57 branches during the quarter.
As far as card purchase activity combined credit and debit card purchase volumes increased 6% from the first quarter of 2012.
In addition credit quality continued to improve as the U.S.
credit loss rate is the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2007 while the 30-plus day delinquency rate is at historic lows.
As we look at activity levels within the segment we’ve also continued to increase our mobile banking customer base to more than 10 million customers which is a 6% increase from the prior quarter and up 34% from the year-ago period.
We turn to slide 14 Consumer Real Estate Services reported a loss of $768 million which was an improvement of $377 million versus the first quarter of this year.
Lower revenue was more than offset by lower expenses and a lower provision for credit losses.
The Home Loans business within our Consumer Real Estate Services segment recorded a profit of $241 million for the quarter.
First mortgage retail originations of $18 billion were up 18% over the first quarter due to lower rates and HARP Refis and in line with our retail originations a year ago.
However as you all know we exited the corresponded business late last year so current correspondent originations during the quarter are virtually non-existent versus volumes of approximately $22 billion a year ago.
Even with the exit from this correspondent channel core production income is higher than a year ago.
Results for the quarter include $395 million in costs for representations and warranties provision and $109 million of litigation expenses and expected assessments waivers and other cost related to foreclosure delays.
During the quarter our MSR asset decreased by approximately $1.9 billion due to lower mortgage rates and ended the quarter at $5.7 billion.
MSR hedge results for the quarter largely offset market valuation declines and the capitalized MSR rate at the end of the quarter was 47 basis points versus 58 basis points in the first quarter and 78 basis points a year ago.
If we move forward to slide 15 as we've done before we show some comparisons of certain metrics in our Legacy Assets and Servicing basis on a linked quarter basis and compared to second quarter a year ago is we continue to focus and work very hard on reducing delinquent loans and looking to find homeowner solutions.
As you recall Legacy Assets and Servicing reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.
We added almost 1700 people in the quarter including contractors versus 3000 people in this area in the first quarter alone.
The number of first-liens serviced did decline by 5% in the quarter while the number of 60-day plus delinquent loans dropped 2%.
As we think about that drop in 60-day plus delinquent loans of 27 000 loans from the first quarter it was lower than we would have expected for two reasons.
The first is a result of the DOJ/AG Settlement we have holds on loans that were attempting to modify and in addition to that we had approximately 15 000 loans were servicing is being sold but we won't complete until this month.
Even with these delays we continue to believe we can reduce our 60-day plus delinquencies by a net of approximately 300 000 over the next 12 months.
And as we've talked about before we remain very focused on decreasing these loans because on a lag basis it gives us the ability to further reduce costs within this segment.
On slide 16 you can see that outstanding claims have increased from the end of March from a rep and warranty perspective.
Claims from the GSEs increased as a result of ongoing disagreements with Fannie Mae about what constitutes a valid repurchase request.
Through June there’s been minimal monoline activity consistent with the past six quarters.
However as I’m sure many of you saw last night we did sign a settlement with Syncora that would have reduced our outstanding monoline claims at the end of June by approximately 20%.
On the private-label side we did have an increase in outstanding claims from $4.9 billion to $8.6 billion during the quarter.
The increase in claims is primarily due to claims received from trustees that we fully anticipated at the time of the Bank of New York settlement a year-ago and were largely reflected in the increase in our reserves at that time.
As we look forward we expect these outstanding claims to continue to grow as the process for ultimate resolution continues to evolve and does remain unclear.
As you look at this table I think it’s important to keep in mind that the table reflects unpaid principal amounts as opposed to actual losses that are projected on the loans.
Our reserves for rep and warrants ended the quarter at $15.9 billion up slightly from the prior quarter.
And as you look out our non-GSE range of possible loss over and above existing levels is up to $5 billion.
In Global Wealth and Investment Management on slide 17; earnings for the quarter of $543 billion or a pre-tax margin of 20% were in line with the results we saw in the first quarter of this year.
Solid long-term AUM flows as well as loan growth of $2.5 billion in the quarter helped to offset a 2% decline in client balances driven by lower market balances.
Loans within this segment are record levels and our advisor levels remained essentially flat up just slightly from the first quarter of this year.
If we move to Global Banking on slide 18 net income decreased $1.4 billion from the first quarter due to lower net interest income as well as lower reserve reductions during the quarter.
Average loans for the quarter were down 3% as a result of the decreases in commercial real estate that I have spoken about before as well as certain targeted loan sales.
Average deposits increased to $239 billion during the quarter as our corporate customers continue to remain very liquid.
Asset quality for the quarter continue to improve substantially as we had the largest quarterly percentage reduction since the peak in 2009 in both non-performing assets as well as credit size balances.
As you can see on slide 19 investment banking fees for the quarter firm wide excluding self-led deals were $1.1 billion down slightly from the first quarter as a pick up in M&amp;A activity was more than offset by a decline in both debt and equity underwriting fees.
We were ranked number two globally as well as in the U.S.
in net investment banking fees during the first half of 2012.
And as you look at the mix in the geography of the revenues you can see that during the quarter more than 80% of the fees were driven by activity in the U.S.
and Canada.
If we switch to global markets on slide 20 net income of $462 million decreased to $336 million from the first quarter reflecting lower sales and trading activity which was partially offset by lower expenses.
Total revenue ex-DVA was down $2.1 billion from the first quarter and down $769 million from the second quarter a year ago due primarily to the European crisis as our clients became more risk averse.
Expenses were down both from the first quarter driven by lower personal related expense as well as from a year ago.
Average VaR was $63 million in the quarter down from $84 million in the first quarter due to lower levels of client activity.
Continuing with the global market segment on slide 21 we recorded DVA losses of a $156 million in the quarter versus losses of $1.4 billion in the first quarter of this year in gains of a $123 million in the year ago period.
Sales and trading revenue excluding DVA losses decreased $1.9 billion from the first quarter due to the deteriorating market sentiment that I just mentioned as well as a slowing U.S.
economy.
FICC revenue ex-DVA was $2.6 billion during the quarter down $1.6 billion from the first quarter as we experienced decreases in almost all product categories but we’d also point out that if we compare Q2 of this year to Q2 of last year FICC revenues were basically flat in the year ago period.
In equities ex-DVA results decreased 26% from the first quarter as volumes remain at low levels significantly impacting both trading as well as commission revenue.
On slide 22 we show you the results of All Other.
Recall in all All Other we include global principal investments to non-US consumer card business our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management insurance and a discontinued real-estate portfolio.
The revenue increase we saw from the first quarter was due to a lower negative valuation adjustment on structured viabilities under fair value option and was offset in part by lower equity investment income lower gains on sales of debt securities and lower gains on debt and trust preferred repurchases during the quarter.
The decline in non-interest expense was mainly due to the absence of retirement eligible stock based compensation awards that we have in the first quarter of each year.
If you turn to slide 23 and look at expenses you can see in the upper left hand corner in the red bars that we’ve had significant declines in non-interest expense from the second quarter of 2011 as well as on a linked-quarter basis from the first quarter of 2012.
What we’ve done in the grey bars is back out goodwill impairment as well as the annual retirement eligible comp cost that we have during the first quarter and if you back those out you can see once again expenses declining from $20.3 billion in the second quarter last year to $18.2 billion during the first quarter of this year down to $17 billion during the current quarter.
I would note during the current quarter litigation expense embedded in that $17 billion is approximately $1 billion.
As we look at the reasons for the decline on a linked-quarter basis in non-interest expense three major drivers; lower incentive compensation expense the benefits of our new BAC programs as well as lower mortgage-related costs.
If you move to the right and look at our full-time equivalents within the employee base you can see year-over-year ex-legacy assets and servicing our number of employees has come down from 253 000 to 233 000 or an 8% decline.
While we’re on the topic of expenses let me spend just a moment on taxes.
The tax rate for the quarter was approximately 22% which resulted from the impact of our recurring tax preference items on the level of pretax earnings.
We estimate 22% to be the rate for the rest of the year except for any unusual items that may arise.
As we mentioned last quarter one unusual item that we do expect to be in active later this month is the UK tax rate reduction of 2% which should result in a tax charge in the third quarter of approximately $800 million.
And recall due to our current DTA disallowance that charge will not impact our Basel 1 or phased-in Basel 3 Tier-1 ratios.
If we turn to slide 24 as we’ve talked about previously our Phase 2 evaluations began late last year and we completed those in the second quarter.
As you know Phase 2 focused on our corporate commercial and markets based businesses.
We expect that these Phase 2 cost savings will total approximately $3 billion on an annualized basis which would be fully phased-in by mid-2015.
We did start to see some of these Phase 2 savings in the second quarter as these initiatives aren’t as interdependent as the consumer businesses in Phase 1 are.
With respect to Phase 1 we’re still on track to exceed the 20% of the $5 billion in annual cost savings by the end of 2012.
In total in both Phase 1 and Phase 2 we’re targeting to produce annualized cost savings of approximately $8 billion by mid-2015.
So if you consider the lower expected FTEs and other expense reductions associated with new BAC both Phase 1 as well as Phase 2 along with an improving delinquent mortgage loans servicing pool.
we believe we can continue to realize cost savings for the remainder of the year.
If we switch to asset quality on slide 25; overall trends continue to remain very positive.
Provision expense declined $645 million to $1.8 billion.
net charge-offs decreased $430 million or 11% to $3.6 billion versus the first quarter driven by lower consumer charge-offs while commercial charge-offs were relatively flat.
The reserve reduction was $1.85 billion versus $1.6 billion in the first quarter of the year.
As we go forward and as credit continues to stabilize we would expect that our overall reserve reductions will continue albeit it at significantly reduced levels.
Consequently we believe that provision expense for the next two quarters of the year will be higher than what we experienced during the second quarter of this year but below that which we saw during the first quarter.
So with that let me turn it over to Brian to go through how we continue to focus moving forward.
Thank you Bruce.
Let me add a few thoughts before we take questions.
The results you see in our numbers today showed that we are continuing to be well positioned to keep building on the customer and client relationships that we have in our company.
As we think about our individuals and business we service as clients many of them have addressed all the financial circumstances that they faced over the last few years and actually are in better shape than a broader economy and the statistics may reflect on a given day or week.
However there remain some uncertainty in the markets and in the minds of our customers and clients.
This largely revolves around the situations in Europe and United States around the longer-term fiscal issues that must be dealt with.
And we continue to run our company consistent with that uncertainty and everything we do.
If you think about the past we've been on for the last couple of years rebuilding the balance sheet making the strategic decisions but in our operating principles in place and living up to them and driving our customer focus strategy.
Everything as we've done in our company has been achieved to make our company less complex and more streamline and also to position our company better to grow over time.
But this quarter continues to demonstrate as a sound financial foundation we have built.
The strong balance sheet that we’ve built and will continue to maintain.
And because of all the work the opportunities which we are focused on is now to drive the core earnings of the company.
As we discussed at the beginning of the year we laid out four things that we were focused upon.
We told you we’d focus on improving our capital levels.
We told you we’d focus on managing our risk.
We told you we’d focus on reducing our cost base and we told you we’d focus on driving core business improvements.
This quarter we saw improvements in each of these areas.
On capital we continue to make strong progress and feel good about where we stand especially in light of our Basel 3 guidance.
In a years time we go on from being behind our peers to being ahead of our peers.
If you think about the risk side asset quality trends continue to be positive across the board.
Charge-offs continue to fall and has room to go.
Provision expense is at the lowest level we’ve had in this company in five years.
Delinquency trends continue to improve in all our products and criticized commercial exposures continue to fall.
As we think about the cost side we are starting to see the benefits of new BAC program.
And the results of that Phase 2 work will begin to roll through as well.
This is evident in the reduction in head count and expenses that you see in the numbers.
So let’s remember this as we reduce our costs we continue to invest in the opportunities on our franchise.
We invest in technology over $2 billion or $3 billion a year this year.
For example that investment is in May we completed a major technology milestone for our company converting our California franchise.
So for the first time in our company’s history we now have one deposit platform serving customers coast to coast.
In addition we continue to invest in our technology platforms across the world including our cash management platform to service corporate clients and you can see the effect of that in our numbers.
But also we invest in our client facing teams.
We continue to grow our small business bankers our wealth management team aids both in our wealth management business in our FSAs and our consumer business.
And we will continue to add mortgage loan officers as you can see in our increased production.
So we’ve had strong steady progress on capital risk and cost providing solid foundation as we focus our energy on a core business growth and the earnings power of the company.
This is the area that we continue to have work to do as you can see in the numbers but we put ourselves in a position to be success.
For example we have transformed and repositioned our core consumer business we’re taking the core expenses down we continue to drive growth.
The example that Bruce referenced earlier is our mobile banking platform.
We had 10.3 million customers this quarter in that mobile banking platform up 600 000 from the last quarter.
With the usage of that platform and the payments initiate it’s growing very very quickly.
This is a superior service model that is second to none in the industry.
In our consumer business our deposit balances were up new credit card accounts were up.
For example we’d issued 1.4 million BankAmericard Cash Rewards cards since we had introduced them less than a year-ago; that’s 26 000 new cards a week.
Our mortgage production has increased almost 20% quarter-over-quarter.
In a broader context we’ve extended $107 billion in credit to our customers to help them participate in the economy this quarter.
In the important small business area year-to-date we’ve initiated $4 billion of new credit to small businesses.
So we continue to drive businesses across the board whether it’s in our wealth management business as you can see in the good long-term asset under management flows or in the banking product side where you can see loans have achieved record levels.
We have market coverage and penetration second to none in the commercial areas whether it’s large corporations or medium and small businesses.
We brought the Wall Street capabilities to those clients across our franchise.
And from an institutional investor client base you’ve seen in our trading business the core customer focus and how that continues to improve recurring revenue streams and also you can see our research capabilities that our clients tell us are second to none.
So now we have tremendous opportunities and franchise we all know that hence we continue to focus on the execution.
As such what you can expect out of us over the next few quarters continue to build the momentum around business performance continue to focus on the fundamentals stronger capital capital management of risk and reducing costs and you’ll see us drive forward and deliver the results that you our clients customers and shareholders expect.
Thank you.
And now we’re happy to take questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) and with that we can take our first question from the site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Yes hi good morning.
Bruce on the net interest income I just want to clarify your statement that you said that starting point should be the $10.2 billion is that the adjusted NII from this quarter or is that why you referencing it tend to? That’s correct John.
LLC</strong> And then from there are you saying we should add the incremental 240 benefit from their reductions? That’s correct.
LLC</strong> And then what about kind of the core leakage like this quarter you had that $400 million of core leakage from the loan run-off.
You didn’t mention that but do you expect to still have that battling against that benefit? I mean I think as we think about the $10.25 billion that’s the jumping off point.
we clearly and I think you’ve seen us in the commercial area are clearly looking within the context of a reasonable risk appetite to start driving loan growth going forward.
and as we’ve talked about before that the run-off portfolio is not one that’s particularly profitable.
so as we look forward and as we’ve thought about that jumping off point that’s how we think about the $10.25 billion.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just trying to think of once we jump off is there something about the $400 million that was elevated this quarter in terms of core leakage and why that might slow as just is loan shrinkage slowing is that the idea? That’s the idea.
I mean I think the other thing is that and as I’d mentioned in my comments and we’ve talked about rates going up or down.
While we’re not predictors of interest rates per say we clearly would not expect to see the decline in interest rates from the rate that we saw from the end of the first quarter to the end of the second quarter going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just finally how would the hedge and the premium amortization work given where the tenure is today versus where it ended at the second quarter? Would that be an incremental hurt and would it be similar magnitude or less?  That obviously goes both ways both up and down.
I think if you look at where the tenure was at the end of the quarter I believe it was at about $164 million.
So we’re clearly a little bit lower today than we were at the end of the quarter.
I would expect though that if rates were to continue to go down I’m not sure that you would necessarily see the same impact on the downside for premium amortization because at some point it is going to stop.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So it would be down but not by the same magnitude on the hedge effectiveness and the premium amortization? That would be the expectation.
LLC</strong>  Okay.
And then on the expenses it sounds like you think the $17 billion is a good jumping off point for expenses all in and you expect to decline for the rest of the year from there.
Is that what you said? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the Phase 2 done by 2015 am I correct that the Phase 2 stage were supposed to come faster than the Phase 1 is that still the expectation? Yes when we put out the Phase 1 expectations we obviously said it was roughly 20% by the end of the first year and given as I’ve said a lot of the work is not as interdependent you would expect that those Phase 2 savings to come more on a ratable type basis as opposed to having them a little bit a more back-end loaded.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But given that those are coming by mid-2015 obviously the Phase 1 takes longer than mid-2015 to finish up? No because keep in mind the Phase 1 we have talked about a three-year period and having all of the Phase 1s done by the end of 2014.
Remember because Phase 1 was started much earlier.
LLC</strong> Okay got it got it.
Okay so it's not from today and someone has started okay.
That's correct.
LLC</strong> And then the last thing just the operating expenses and LAS were up to 2.7% from 2.4% do you believe that those have peaked now and do you see those starting to decline in the second half of this year or more in 2013? John I think they are up a little bit because remember we’re now in full multiple things going on in Department of Justice to look back in full swing in everything.
So the team thinks we've largely peaked but I’d expect to be slowly start to move in the right direction.
But I think the next quarter I wouldn't expect them to come down a lot just because we’re still finishing up for the third and fourth quarter.
But once we get through the Department of Justice look back once we get a settlement work once we get through the look back there are a lot of expenses will come out relatively quickly and in according to line loan numbers go down.
But I think we peaked but I think it’ll take us as we enter early next year when you start to see meaningful quarter-by-quarter improvement.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So the decline from 17 in the back half of this year is more from the New BAC stuff would you say? Yeah I think if you look at that chart on headcount John that Bruce showed you in the upper right hand corner just watch the quarter-by-quarter toward trend and you can see that from a broad franchise ABS and LAS were down 20 000 people year-over-year and 3000 this quarter overcoming an increase in LAS.
And so you’ve just seen it come through quarter by quarter by quarter so we’re still driven largely this year by the non-LAS and the LAS will help probably more in 2013.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
Thanks.
And our next question is from the site of Paul Miller with FBR.
Your line is open.
Yeah I thank you very much.
Hey Brian can you help us on slide 16 a follow-up question on the you said the 8.6 private label that settlement last night settled 20% of that or roughly $1.7 billion?  Yeah we said so.
If you look at the that’s correct that the under monolines as you look at the dollar of claims it was roughly 20%.
I think Paul though that the other thing to keep in mind is that when you look at the monolines some of the exposure is included within the claims and with respect to certain other monolines it’s within the litigation number.
But you’re correct that with respect to this [in-quarter] settlement it was 20% of the outstanding claims in the… Of the monolines of the monolines? Yeah yeah you said private improves at monolines but the monolines aren’t.
Yeah I had it wrong.
And then the other question is is like the private I mean the GSE reps and warrant put-backs continues to grow and I agree with you that after 25 statements you shouldn’t asked to pay any reps and warrants but how is this going to be settled? Will the GSEs go to court have they gone to court? I don’t think you’re in dialog with them I know you’ll probably don’t make a comment about that but how can we look at this as analyst? How would this be eventually settled would you have to go to court? I think Paul I would just reiterate your point and I think if you look back on slide 33 and look at the new claim trends that are coming in from the GSEs it’s very clear that the new trends that are building up in that bucket were back in the 2006 2007 vintages.
And so I think we clearly have a disagreement and the way that it gets result is obviously through one of two ways either they would look to bring an action or alternatively there would be a settlement.
But those would be the two ways that it would get resolved.
FBR Capital Markets &amp; Co.</strong>  Okay.
Go ahead.
Well if you look on those pages you can see that there are approved repurchases going through in quarters.
So there’s a pattern which thinks we are still paying if any today on once we believe we owe one.
FBR Capital Markets &amp; Co.</strong> But you’re paying on those that are less than two years of payments right? The disagreements coming about on those loans have made over 25 payments right? Yeah we’re paying on the ones that are consistent with our past belief that we’re owing the money and leave aside the payment exactly but it’s really that we’re owing the money or not.
FBR Capital Markets &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
And thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you.
And we turn to our next question from the site of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
A quick one the Basel 3 8.1% that you showed correct me if I’m wrong it includes 2.5% but not the NPR.
I’m just curious on why you took that road and what your estimate? I might be using the standardized approach.
Sure.
That’s correct Glenn.
And I think as we look at the NPR obviously there’s a comment period there’s a lot of clarification and qualification needs to get baked in.
We’ve done the work and based on our understanding realizing it’s a draft and there's going to be a lot of comments we think the negative effect would be around 15 basis points but I think we’re just hesitant to including the number until there’s exact clarity and the different clarifications get made and the rules become a little bit more clear.
Okay that’s all we really needed just to get that range that’s helpful.
And then on the just curious I don’t know if I missed it in the prepared remarks but I think the private label claims spiked by like 77% I’m not sure if that’s a single private label holder or what’s closed that spike.
Yeah I think it’s a series of holders.
And I think the one thing that I think is important to take a step back and when you think about these private label claims is that when we set up the reserves and entered into the settlement at the end of the second quarter of last year we obviously established both reserves and range of possible loss with the anticipation that we would see increased claim activity.
And I think as you look at these private label claims I think that it’s important to think of a couple of things.
The first is they’re notional amounts.
The second thing is if you look at the losses that tend to be associated with those notional amounts they’re roughly $0.60 on the dollar of what the notional amounts are.
So if you take that $8 billion number that’s come in and think about it in the context of $0.60 it gets you down to a number of roughly $5 billion.
And then you can take the settlement data that we’ve had out there if you wanted to look at a Gibbs &amp; Bruns type settlement number off of collateral losses and if you apply that to that number you get something that’s well below $1 billion dollars.
And obviously as we go through the process and set up both reserves and range of possible loss we factor in the data that you see there.
Very helpful I appreciate that.
Last one is a quickie.
There was nothing in the Q the past Q on LIBOR.
I know it’s a sticky situation but is there any I think you only said LIBOR in U.S.
dollars if that’s correct I’m just curious if you can update us on anything related to that issue now? Yeah I mean I think obviously all of you have seen the different press reports and that you’re aware that we’re a panel bank not unlike others we’ve received and are cooperating with the enquiries that we get from both the U.S.
and the foreign regulators.
We’re also one of the number of defendants in some of the other LIBOR related litigation.
And just given the fact that these are active matters there’s really not a lot more than we can say than that.
Okay thanks for answering the questions.
We’ll go next to the site of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
If I could just follow-up a little bit on the net interest income commentary I guess first when you talk about the jumping off point the $10.25 billion I guess I’m trying to think why it’s not the $10.5 billion roughly including some of the liability management and then from there we’ve got to make adjustments up or down for loans securities and interest rate environment.
I think you’re saying the same thing slightly differently than we did which is that the $10.25 billion is generally where we were at in the second quarter adjusted for that activity.
And you’re right going forward there should be an incremental $240 million a quarter that would get added to that and then plus or minus whatever you see in balance levels in rate movement.
So we said it slightly differently but you’re right you can look at it the way that you just articulated as well.
Okay.
And then taking out the accounting new answers of premium amortization hedge the market related hedge ineffectiveness I guess we just think about the core portfolio and some of the re-pricing that you might see in your securities book if rates stay here I mean I would assume there’s just kind of some natural drag to the core NIM if rates would stay here that we would expect? I think you almost needed to look at it portfolio-by-portfolio obviously the securities portfolios are subject to rates either going up or down from here.
I think if you go back and look at the different card portfolios that the actual rates on the card portfolios have been pretty sticky where they are.
And obviously beyond just NIM as you go down to the pretax line we’re benefiting from credit improvement within the card business.
And then I would say if you look at and go through some of the commercial and corporate loan pricing that I would characterize that environment is generally pretty stable at this point.
So to your point as far as where do you see and is there downward pressure going forward I think it’s going to be more a function of both loan balances as well as where rates go from here more than anything else.
Okay.
And then I guess you’re not the only bank but like a number of banks have kind of brushed off the low rate impact on the securities book.
And I know it takes time for the securities portfolio to re-price but if we adjust your yield [forcing to] one-time or it seems like it’s around 2.8% and my guess is the stuff that you’re adding is 1.5% to 1.7% right now.
So I mean hypothetically if rates stay here it’s just kind of constantly down to that right? I think what it says is that as we look out at and I think if you go back to last year we could see and I think as we looked out we’re pretty close to exit the FAS 91 and the premier amor being pretty close to where we thought NII would land.
And what I’d say at this point is that I think all other things being equal in this environment obviously there's a little bit of pressure downward on that.
I think the other thing though and clearly what we’re looking to do and working real hard to mitigate and hopefully improve where we’re from a net interest perspective is the debt footprint.
And I think as you look out at the parent we've got roughly $15 billion of maturities during the balance of the year and we’ll look to clearly offset to the extent that that pressure exist work real hard to continue to shrink the debt footprint because we’re paying roughly $2.5 billion a quarter on that long-term debt footprint and obviously one of the things that’s in our control is to continue to shrink that.
Okay.
And then just separate topic briefly here.
Obviously there's a lot of cost savings coming from New BAC probably another $7 billion or so versus what's in the run rate now the legacy mortgage costs could come down.
You’ve said and we’ve estimated maybe $8 billion annually.
So I mean these are really big numbers off of your expense space.
Are there any modest offsets like ramp-ups in investment stance or some of the growth initiatives you've talked about in the commercial anything in those areas that we should be factoring in? I think so think about the markets business so the revenues in the compensation will follow that so being careful to if always adjust that to what you think it is.
But outside of that we're for example we’d invest about $3 billion in technology development this year about $750 million of that will go to New BAC implementation which is going through the run rate.
And as that comes off we’ll turn that $750 million level back to the core businesses.
So embedded and that is what is shifting money around even something like that to help drive the business growth.
So of course if you look in core consumer you’d see expenses are flattish when it does the litigation quarter-to-quarter.
That's because that business is putting on loan officers and putting on FSAs and putting on preferred bankers in the preferred growth area of the business while in the mass market the retail businesses were bringing it down.
So I think you’re seeing those investments go on in the business.
and so we’re taking advantage of those opportunities our marketing dollars we’re careful with them but we continue to watch them and trim them.
but we’re getting rid of a lot of expense that is just coming from the overall reposition of the company including real estate expenses and things like that.
So there’s enough room to invest and embed it in the way we did New BAC is to at least a couple of years of growth capacity that we have left in there to assume an economy which is bumping around at 2% 2.5% type of growth.
So I think we’re comfortable that you won’t see a big offset to it in that context.
When you go to the markets business we built the international platform out.
We’ll always take opportunities to add people where opportunity is but even on the international we brought that back a little bit because the fees available and the training process available were down.
So I’m not overly concerned about the reinvestment rate within the businesses there’s money in there.
so you should think a lot of that is only coming through today net of the implementation costs which that we can reposition.
Okay.
thank you very much.
And we can go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning thanks.
One follow-up question on the capital you indicated that Basel 3 proposals if we put them all it would be a 15 basis point hit lots of caveats around the fact that we need more clarification.
I guess I’m wondering is that on an advanced basis or standardized basis? That would be on a assuming all model approval.
So it's going to be on an advanced basis which I think from everything that we've seen best I think we clearly believe that will be our governor.
Okay.
And so and then the standardized rate with the (inaudible) when you have to disclose whichever is lower will the standardized have an impact there or no? I think yeah from everything we’re seeing at this point clearly the advanced approach is going to be our governor.
So as you look at the different rules assume were advanced.
Okay.
The sales I remember when we’re saying fully phased-in we are still deducting the entire DTA in terms of the calculations as of today.
And by time those rules we really face and we'll run that back overtime.
So there are other adjustments which where you’re making this adjustments on this side we agree with you but there – the fully phased-in axis of the rules were there fully implemented and its still five to six years out.
And so as you watch us really play out you'll see some differences in that the reported numbers during time.
And we will earn back the DTA and that creates capital faster rate than other one.
Sure.
Okay that's helpful.
On page 16 just want to make sure that I am not sure you are saying about the DOJ/AG is holding on to the loans and then you’ve got this 15 000 loans sourcing sold that are going to be completed this month.
So I just want to make sure I understand how that's going to flow through.
And to not only expected declines and delinquencies that's over and above the 300 are you talking about over the next 12 months or that's embedded within? No the servicing sales are embedded within that net 300 000 units.
Okay.
But then the comments you are making about the DOJ? Yeah DOJ just as we attempt to modify some of those loans its slowdown what would have gone through the normal process as we satisfied those obligations.
so we look at that as more of a one to two quarter delay not something that’s permanent and I think the thing that we just wanted to make sure of is we’ve spoken publicly before that as we look out at over the course of the second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter that we were thinking it would be a net 300 000 reduction we just want to make it clear that over that timeframe we’re not coming off that guidance.
Okay.
and then as we think about the LAS expenses as you’ve indicated a decline and the delinquencies obviously should be driving down your LAS expenses.
When I look at kind of the servicing pools foreclosure to liquidation or pass due to liquidation.
I’m not seeing that much of a ramp up yet.
Can you just give us some thoughts on what you’re doing to try to ramp that up and when you think that turn is going to happen?  Yeah.
A couple of things I think the first thing is that when you look at the expense side just to keep in mind embedded in these numbers are couple of things that we’ve observed in the second quarter as we go forward.
First is obviously as part of the different settlements we had to staff up and obviously going to single point of contact at the level of expense.
The second thing is there are a variety of obligations under the DOJ/AG settlement including getting through the modifications that adds expense and obviously there are some of the look back and other activities that adds expense.
so as you look at those different things from an expense perspective that those are all embedded in the second quarter and it’s why we believe that they will trend down based on the guidance that Brian had given before.
I think as it relates to some of the activity as far as the different buckets of getting the number of 60 plus day delinquencies out.
I don’t think that there is any question that the second quarter was a little bit slower in those different buckets than we would have expected.
At the same time as we look out at and as I said over the next couple of quarters as we see the different pipelines the different servicing sales and everything else we’re still quite comfortable with what we’ve communicated before.
Okay.
And then last on the DOJ piece a lot of that review have to be done by the end of this year can you tell us how much you think the expenses to come down as you move into 1Q – 2Q from those reviews being completed?  Well I think we said it will take us throughout the year so you’ll see more benefits next year in that in terms of them coming down plus the day-to-day work.
You’ve got multiple things going on you’ve got the DOJ you’ve got the foreclosure look back which is running through here and then just getting the inventory down overall.
And remember also that there is a flow in each quarter that we’re – that you just – each in this 75 000 to 80 000 new units come in in the second quarter.
So just from the general delinquency [flaws] of portfolio.
So all that put together what we’re saying is for the rest of this year we are busy getting that the DOJ behind us getting the work done on the look back and get that behind us which is very expensive largely not through the personal line but largely through the out-of-pocket expenses to third-parties to independent foreclosure review.
And then you’ll see it start coming down next year more measurably because those two activities will be completed as you said and then the rest of the balances come down.
So year-over-year will be down 260 000 plus units remembering that year we probably had 250 000 think about to make 300 000 new units flow in from the delinquency [flaws] of portfolio so you’ve made a net gain over top of that and that front end flow is slowing down as the portfolio shrinks and the asset quality gets better.
Sure got that.
I just wondered if it was puzzle put a number on the third party payments that you’ve got sustaining with this review which can end at year end.
There is nobody working harder to get this number down and we are.
Okay thanks.
And we’ll take our next questions from the site of Andrew Marquardt from Evercore Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning guy.
Just back on capital so I just want to – with the capital ratios coming in above what you had targeted for the full year as well.
How do we think about do you have a new target for the end of this year?  We’ve not put out a new target for this year I think the things that I would say as you look at on capital let’s think about both numerator and denominator on the numerator side if you look at us generating net income and given where we are from a DCA prospective I think generally you can think about the capital number growing in the zip code of one and half times our net income.
So you’ve got that benefit and that relates to the tax position that Brian referenced and unlike some of our other peers it’s largely in the U.S where we generate income.
Secondly and I think one of the benefits that we have this quarter that just be aware of is that obviously as we continue to drive down into self servicing that benefits the MSR which is the capital benefit that MSR obviously also bounces around with rates as does OCI.
So I think as you think about the numerator I would think about those different things and as we look at the denominator and moving forward I think we still believe that we’ve got a decent bit of runway on the denominator as we go forward both from actual risk reduction things that we continue to do and as we continue to reduce legacy assets that we believe that there’s upside there.
and then secondly that there’s still a lot of model work that we’re working through that we believe we’ll provide further benefit as we go throughout the end of this year and in to next year.
Should we assume that the run-offs portfolios more than offset incremental growth or are they are offsetting out and how do we think about kind of the overall balance sheet size? Yeah.
I think that clearly some of the stuff that runs off given its nature tends to be higher on the risk rating spectrum.
and so as you think about that amount that runs off for $5 billion some of that has decent risk ratings associated with that until we see the actual mix of what we’re able to get and what comes on it’s probably not appropriate to comment.
but we’re obviously mindful as we look to grow and put assets on of what the different Basel 3 risk ratings are? Got it thank you.
And then lastly just back on expenses.
Can you help us understand in terms of Phase 1 and Phase 2 $8 billion by mid-15.
I just want to understand with this Phase 1 now the $5 billion you’ve realized the billion is that is there a timing of realization on the same wide tab that it had before I recall it was going to be coming in sooner kind of by the end of ’13 but maybe I’m not recollecting correctly? Yeah.
I think a couple of things Andrew.
what we would have suddenly came out with New BAC 1 is that it was $5 billion on an annual basis it would be fully phased-in by the end of 2014 we said that we’ve realized 20% of that by the end of 2012 and you’re exactly correct that we've subsequently said that we’re ahead of schedule with respect to that 20% by the end of 2012.
And as I mentioned earlier as you think about the New BAC 2 and you think about that $3 billion over the course of the next three years unlike New BAC 1 I would generally think about that in the buckets of kind of a third a third a third in each of the three years.
Got it.
So just to be clear on that New BAC 1 if 20% is realized in this year how much should we think about next year is the bulk of that coming in next year is that fair?  We've not provided that guidance or split between the second and third year.
Just to be clear we haven't changed what we said before.
We just added it the 2015 comes attached to Phase 2 and not Phase 1.
Okay.
Thank you.
We go next to the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi thanks.
I was going to follow up on some on the rep and warranty question.
Given that we’re not in dialog with Fannie and that the private label seemed to be trying to get their suites in before statue limitations ahead.
Should we expect the same types of outstanding claims increase next quarter? Yeah I think at this point we're not going to predict what these claims are or not because I think you have to keep in mind that first they tend to be lumpy and the second thing is that they don't think we want to confuse claims that come in versus those that are valid but have the ability to come in.
But I think with – as you think about it and you think about when the underwriting and the originations with respect to these slowdown as we got into 2008 we’re clearly almost four years into that.
So I think generally speaking your point has to mere but we’re not going to predict exactly what we’d expect these to be.
Besides that that we expected those to increase we’d continue to see some of those increases in the second quarter and we’ll see some more going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right.
And just on a follow-up is it possible I’m trying to frame that $6 billion of increase in the outstanding claims and you give us the net claims every quarter.
Is it possible to look at the total claims that you’ve gotten over the cycle and compare that $6 billion of new claims to the total claims? I mean is it that you’ve gotten I don’t know $60 billion of claims is it a little different or $600 billion of claims is a different – is it different growth rate? I think if you look at 32 and 33 you can sort of see that we paid out $13.6 billion on page 32 and then we have reserves established $15.9 billion.
And then if you look I don’t have here in front of us.
If you can look at this chart from page 33 we’ve been producing this now for a better year and half so you can sort of go back and see the claims flows literally quarter-by-quarter going back pretty far.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right thanks guys.
We’ll go next to site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Couple of things just on the reps and warrants Bruce  I may think you almost need to go through the three different buckets.
We obviously as we’ve said before believe that the work in a way that we’ve reserved for the GSEs is based on our obligations and we continue to believe that we’re satisfied with those obligations with perspective of the GSE bucket.
I think second if you go to the monolines the deal that we’ve referenced in quarter that we signed up that got done today was in the context of our reserves.
So I think in the context of getting that one behind us it was where the reserves were.
And so I guess given that a fair bit of the monolines stuff that’s out there it relates to litigation obviously it’s something from a litigation perspective was different than what we’ve assumed.
That would affect it.
And then I think third if you go down to the private-label stuff you’ve got two different buckets of liability you’ve got one from the rep and warrant perspective and obviously if there was different behavior from a claim’s perspective than what we’ve assumed in an outcome that we didn’t anticipate.
We have to adjust with that point if the experience was different than what we have assumed.
And then obviously the fourth piece of it is that there is securities litigation that’s out there that we touch on as far as looking at range of possible loss within our litigation bucket.
So I think we – at this point we’ve got experience we’ve got the different buckets and we’ve laid out what those are and obviously changes from what our assumptions and what our experience is is what would change that.
Great.
On the comment that you made about the retail banking platform now that you are actually on one platform is it more likely that you will kind of have a new retail banking offering and kind of adjust pricing and try to recapture some of the revenue that’s been lost over the last several years.
Any thoughts you can give on some in that front?  It’s a combination of everything.
but if you look we’ve sort of passed through all the different regulatory impacts now and you can see – if you look at the consumer saving you can see the revenues have stabilized in terms of the fee revenues and start to grow really good activity at this point because you’ve now had the impact of the overdraft and the interchange and everything we have through the core (inaudible) result.
and so the team is working on combination of all the factors driving revenue from the standpoint of loan originations and things like that of the core portfolio bringing down expenses at 57 range or so whatever we reduce this quarter.
and if you look at the people the headcount in this business is down from a high point at one point 100 000 down to say 70 000 to give you the sense.
And so we continue to reduce that.
So it’s a combination of all things.
so we continue to do a new offering new account structures and something we’ve been testing we’ve been clear about that.
We haven’t made any decisions there and we continue to look at it.
but interesting enough this mobile platform growth really has changed some of our thinking there because the – for example we send 20 odd million texts a month to people telling their balances are low the initiation of payments after mobile platform is about $1 billion a week now up dramatically year-over-year and continues to grow and it’s just a much more efficient and frankly strong service models.
So I think it’s going to be continues to be a combination of expenses in revenue and activity.
I’d tell you that the court sales checking accounts were strong this quarter the account closures by our customers lowest since they’ve been in 2007.
so that net attrition rates are down and we keep driving all those different things.
So I wouldn’t mean it’s any one thing but the platform really the Northwest and the California because people that we did in the Northwest gives us a much more cheaper platform obviously but also much more capable platform that we couldn't change things put thing get it into the system.
And we continue to look at account structures and making sure we balanced the rates we charged with the value we get.
Okay thanks.
Just one quick follow-up.
Bruce (inaudible) this already but did the DTA go down in the quarter or what happen there? It went down by a small amount.
Small amount thank you.
We'll go next to the site of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My question is on LAS first off the staffing levels there it seems as though the FTE definition that you guys used in your LAS disclosures bounces around a little bit.
I was hoping you could maybe give some clarity on that and maybe provide some consistent quarter-over-quarter disclosure over an extended period of time.
So we could get a better handle on exactly staffing levels there and what's moving because it doesn't seem like it just the FTEs plus third party.
Can you help out there a little bit? I think we think consistently the FTEs that what we count the FTEs so you could see that what you – sometimes you hear numbers that are 42 000 and 55 000 the 55 000 are contractors we have about 10 000 to 12 000 13 000 contractors working in the given time that are not on our payroll.
That we obviously pay through the expense line and we'll talk about 50 000 plus people working but the FTE numbers of (inaudible) consistently and we could – if you look on page 15 you can see some 7 000 employees FTE equivalents from second quarter of 2011 2012.
But the contract that one moves around a little bit based on the ebbs and flows of what we're doing and you should see those come down.
Yeah but last quarter in your deck you had FTEs at 38.1% and now you are at 42.4% but you say you are only up 0.3% so I guess I don’t understand that.
In the last quarter of adjustment there is a group that’s in our core consumer business that does the good mortgage service thing before collections and they’ve moved some people around so there might be a little bit noise there but from a core activity level you are seeing that this thing is really around about 55 000 people equivalents 42 000 with us 13 000 with our people.
Okay I guess it will be helpful to see it consistently disclose because I mean what I am kind of getting at here is starting at about third quarter of last year indications were that LAS staffing was out on your peak but we’ve actually seen the staff always go up every quarter since and I might be not remembering this correctly but I seem to recall you saying previously that LAS staffing should start to go down in the back half of 2012 previously; and now it seems like you are calling for those declines to be held-off until 2013 so what I’m getting at is can you give us a sense of your confidence level of these cost projections and maybe how much we should bake in there? Okay.
Let me just make sure and with respect to the staffing levels in what you are looking at what was adjusted this quarter was the – within legacy assets servicing there is some non-distress servicing that’s in there that when we reported this segment we adjusted the people that do some of that non-distressed serving in the numbers that’s reflected in the numbers and we’ve gone back and adjusted those numbers to make sure that it’ consisted on a look-back basis so you’ve got apples-to-apples within these numbers.
Okay the second is it relates to the staffing levels I think what we’ve said this quarter with prospect to the overall expense base and staffing is that we’re wrapping the different parts of the different DOJ/AG and other settlements and we would start to expect both the people in the expense to go down probably more towards the latter part of the year with significant momentum in 2013.
Okay and I get – believe me the business has been really difficult and I’m sure it has been really hard to manage so I can certainly appreciate the challenge is there.
I guess it just the key part of the story is a lot of this expense improvement and some of the commentary around improvements in 2013 it seems as though it has been that’s going to be sort of slow whereas you get a more substantial pickup in 2014 and I think Brian you’ve made some of those references in some of the investor presentations what I’ve heard.
So could you give us maybe a bit more is it possible to get a bit more specific on what you’re talking about there? I mean are we talking someone in the ballpark like 10% to 15% reduction in that $8 billion in our X litigation numbers is it more like a third is it – what are we thinking about for 2013 and then 2014 is it possible?  We’ve given you an overall view point that says that the amount of 60 plus day delinquent loans will ultimately get into the say the 300 000 range that will take us the rest of this year and next year to get it down into those ranges and probably end of ’14.
Before that we’re saying that it takes about $500 million of quarterly cost versus the [$2.8 you have in your day] and so that’s what we get the pace of this even six months ago for example now closure look back we just got the final rules recently a bad habit finish the work and that was month after we expect it.
So a lot of it is based on in that case we had to get the final rules to actually go do the work and the Department of Justice the settlement came through in early April final settlement.
A lot of people believed it would be done a few months before that because it was largely worked out.
We couldn’t start the work until the settlement was finalized.
So many things move around a month or two but in a grand scheme of things the key is to get this from the $2.8 billion to the $500 million level.
And they’re – in there all the people cost and in there on top of that is some of the effectively each quarter the one-time adjustments the life expectation foreclosure delays and things like that but we adjust on.
But I think you will see this come down relatively quickly once we break through the two big bodies of work and then beginning the Department of Justice settlement work and the look back.
And then after that it is really scheduled against the work flow down to the people will come down.
And we are working as hard as we can to get it down.
So I think any adjustment to the view of timing is largely done just to make sure we do it right because the number one thing is to do this right for the consumers continue to modify the $1 million plus loans we’ve modified continue to work the short step process and other alternative resolutions continue to do all the work under all the various programs that are there now and get out of – but it’s always subject to making sure we do it right and then we are not going to bring the headcount down until we got the job done well.
Right.
Yeah.
As I said I get it it’s been a challenging environment.
So that’s probably been real difficult.
Last not to beat the dead horse here but the putback claims just on the GSC side because I get it the private label right that’s going to be solved by the courts and probably pretty difficult but at least with GSCs is a lot more history.
And when you look at some of the Fannie and Freddie filings BOA Countrywide really standout on the pending and disputed claims that you are about 6.5 times your closest peer even though the repurchase levels are about in line and withdrawn claims are only about 1.8 times your closest peer.
so it seems as though these disputes are BOA specific issue.
what gives you confidence that you’re going to be able to buck the trend of the entire industry and can you help us out on that front? I think all we can really say at this point quite frankly is that the way that we look at this in the reserving is based on our view of what our understanding agreements are.
We’ve said that there are disagreements that are out there.
And I’m not sure there’s a lot more saving in that I think the only other thing that I would say those is that as you look out at and you look at these agreements and you go back we were able on a look-back basis to get a deal done with Freddie Mac on a global basis to resolve all the Countrywide claims prior to the end of 2008.
So I think that the way that we’re going about and looking to solve these challenges this has not changed a bit.
I think you also have to remember that if you go and look at 32 and things grew the categories where there’s resolution on.
and so that clients are really coming through there’s obviously disputes are in the sense that the private labels the FTE issues have been resolved back in New York for over a year now and we’re waiting for the core process to take place as Bruce mentioned in the Countrywide.
So I think the issues have – the volumes we would have are not coming through a big parts of the production at the time of 2004 2008 production because they are settled and monolines with same thing.
So obviously the people that I think specifically Fannie that we are going to have biggest target of whether the people still see so many clients.
Right okay.
and then the last one just on the wealth management can you give us a sense for net new assets and what they were and what they have been over the last few years because it seems as though that that’s not a disclosed number anymore? It’d be really helpful to get that figure? Okay which number you’re looking for? The net new assets in the brokerage business not necessarily asset management but to wealth management? which has been driving the business to be more of a in the financial plans with the customers and clients.
The AUM flows where we focus as we move from sort of the transaction based to the more of money-managed basis and you can see those flows went strong we’ll get through the net new asset side.
Sure thanks.
Your next from the site of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yeah good morning.
Syncora’s press release sided that they received $375 million in the settlement.
And you said that it was about 20% of the $3.1 billion which is a bit more than $600 million.
So that implies the settlement rate of – at about $0.60 on the dollar.
And I wondered is there anything that would make Syncora better or worse exposure than the rest of the monoline claims? And then secondly why would the settlement rate on the private-label be radically lower than what it is on the monolines? Yeah I think you have to be careful Chris I can assure you that the rate if which was paid was not anywhere near the number that you quoted and the reason is keep in mind with the monolines.
As we’ve talked about you’ve got a couple different buckets that go into what you think a monoline exposure is that drive that number significantly lower than what you just quoted.
The first is there are claims that come in that monolines have submitted.
At points in time monolines have stopped submitting claims because they believe that they’re going the route of litigation.
And then third over above those two buckets you have things that may happen in the future that have not been realized or worked through.
So when I quoted the fact that the Syncora settlement was 20% of those claims you should not in any way extrapolate out that that’s the payment percentage.
I try to understand that but I'll follow up.
Thank you.
And we'll take our final questions from the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi just a real big picture question.
What inning are we in from the negative impact from this very low interest rate environment? You had one bank say it was pretty much done; you're not going to have a whole lot more negative impact.
You had another large bank saying well it’s more than half done it's mostly done.
And a third bank has said well actually it's going to hurt a lot more for you to stay here.
So where do you stand on that question? And specifically I know that this quarter the deposit rates only declined by two basis points whereas the yield on loans were down 11 and commercial loan yields were down 17? I’d say a couple of things on that Mike.
The first thing I'll address is just your last question which is that where do you – we continue to look at and given this rate environment to be very disciplined is what – with respect to what we do on the deposit pricing if rates persists we’ll continue to revisit that; realizing that when you get to the levels that we're at with perspective deposit pricing there’s only so much further that you can go.
I think with respect to the rest of your question I think you need to split the rate question really into two pieces.
The first piece is that as you look at loan spreads in what we’re seeing from a loan spread perspective on those things that are floating rate base the spreads at this point in some of the new origination spread that we’ve seen that the spreads on those have stabilized.
So I think as it relates to – is there more downside or you’re concerned more on rates with respect to that.
At this point I think we feel okay with that.
The last piece is where it is with respect to those fixed rate instruments.
We’ve been very careful at this point to manage and to manage the duration such that we don’t have OCI issues with respect to Basel 3.
And if you look at on a swapped basis with respect to duration on the securities portfolio we’re just over a year on a swapped basis realizing it’s a couple more years if you didn’t take into account swap.
So I think as we look at it the piece that probably has some element of risk over time is that these rates stay at this point the overall securities portfolio but I think a lot of what we do at this point the low rate environment is baked into it.
Just one follow-up as I’m looking at page 10 of the supplement and I’m sure you know these numbers total commercial yield from the first quarter to the second quarter went from 3.52% to 3.35% that’s a 17 basis point decline in the commercial loan yield so is there noise there what gives you such good confidence that that decline is pretty done?  I think if you go into it that if you look at where the majority of the noise came in and if you look at – there are two pieces that moves the first and probably the most significant was when we disclosed this back in the first quarter we had some gains on the overall leasing portfolio that settled up during the first quarter.
So if you look at that if you look at the number you can see the leasing portfolio came in by about 100 basis points that’s clearly something as we look out at that we don’t expect to repeat.
So I think as you look at those two buckets that’s the reason both – so if you look at U.S.
commercial it was down a little bit commercial real estate was effectively flat commercial lease is where you saw the biggest change and on the non-U.S.
commercial stuff we will see that number bounce around a little bit as if we’re doing trade financing it tends to have a little bit lower rate than some of the straight-up corporate stuff.
But I would say as we look out at and look at the new origination spreads that we’re seeing on the base business we really didn’t see any erosion of spreads that we booked with respect to newer loans.
For that jumping off point of what would you say 10.2 billion of NII you expect that to probably be flat or higher than? What we said at this point is that we think that’s the jumping off point we mentioned the benefits that we have from the long-term debt footprint and then we’ll obviously need to see activities during the quarter.
All right thank you.
Mike to back up to the broader level think about two or three things one is the loan rate environment has been impacting us and that’s why one of the issues about the – you have to go out to the cost side and get the cost structured in line because low and straight volume with respect to revenues.
Secondly remembering these one-off portfolios we are giving up net interest margin gross yield bit if you look at net interest margin minus charge-offs you’ll see that it’s actually growing year-over-year second quarter last year second quarter this year.
So what is running off is costing us money that is contributing a lot for the pre-tax volumes we said.
And the third is we continue to have benefits that we think that are unique to this franchise because of the amount of acquisition debt we’ve build up in the long term debt size to continue to drive that down so as you watch the balance sheet shift across time the non-interest bearing sources deposit funding sources become more and more higher and higher percentage of which they are already high of the total funding.
And if you think about it very simply we pay about a $0.5 billion a quarter for all the deposit funding $1 trillion and we pay about $2.5 billion round numbers a quarter for the $308 billion of long-term debt.
So the effectiveness of moving that down because just don’t need the size we have the – because we are running of late as we switch [on gear] yielding as much is very beneficial going forward.
So we are fighting the trend this is a trend that’s held so longer than most have expected but we’re fighting with all the areas and the corporate that we have.
All right.
Thank you.
And we do have one more question queuing in the site of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Good morning just a administrative question you noted that your tax guidance for the reminder of the year is around 22% excluding the effects of the UK tax.
Last quarter you noted that you thought the tax rate was going to be about 30% I’m just curious as to what’s driving the decline in the tax rate guidance.
I believe and I’d have to go back and look I think if you look at it and what we are saying now is that the 22% includes the different preference items that we have based on where we are today.
And as we look out that 22% is a good number as it relates to what we’d expect before as we’ve said adjusting for what we’d see coming out of UK tax.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then again another – one final administrative question you mentioned about $300 million in benefits from your actions reducing higher cost debt $60 million of debt was recognized in the second quarter.
Then on page 8 of the slide deck you say that there's about a $100 million of savings from those actions in 2012 and another $180 million expected in 2013.
Is that $300 million number you're talking about the equivalent of the $280 million in combined savings in ’12 and ’13? We gave you the information on the liability management action to give you a senses to the benefit that they would provide.
So the way to think about those savings that we've talked about in the liability management is they’re embedded in the $300 million quarterly benefit of which $240 million will be incremental in the third quarter of this year relative to the second quarter of this year.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you everybody.
We look forward talking to you next quarter.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And welcome to today’s third quarter earnings review program.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take questions in turn during our Q&amp;A session.
And please note today’s call is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the program over to Kevin Stitt.
Please begin sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian and Bruce begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I am going to start the presentation on slide four.
And as I am sure you’ve all seen for the third quarter of 2012 we reported net revenue of $20.6 billion.
Importantly that number was reduced by about $1.9 billion for FVO and DVA and if we adjust for that you get to a revenue net of interest expense of $22.5 billion for the quarter.
Net income was $340 million or $0.00 a share after preferred dividends.
The results reflect the previously announced charges in late September that relate to $1.9 billion for the combination of FVO adjustments as well as DVA resulting from the significant tightening that we saw in our credit spreads during the quarter.
In addition we had $1.6 billion of pre-tax of total litigation expense including the charge for the Merrill Lynch Class Action Settlement.
Lastly we had about $800 million of tax expense related to the reduction in the UK tax rate.
In the aggregate these items negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.28.
We turn to slide five the results in the third quarter demonstrated ongoing momentum on several fronts.
Period-end deposits across the company grew $28 billion or 2.7% versus the second quarter which is an 11% annualized rate and we accomplished that as the rates on the deposits declined slightly from 20 basis points to 18 basis points.
The net interest yield increased by 11 basis points as our liability management actions continue to benefit net interest income.
Our Mortgage business home loans had its most profitable quarter excluding asset sales since we started reporting its results separately with first-lien production up by 13%.
Wealth and Investment Management showed growth in long-term assets under management deposits and record loan levels while maintaining solid margins.
Ending loans in our Global Banking segment increased 2.5% from the second quarter or 10% on an annualized basis.
Results in the capital markets area reflected strong performances both on a quarter-over-quarter as well as a year ago basis.
We continue to invest in growth areas of our company such as mortgage lending small business banking and financial advisors.
Our 60 plus day delinquent loans serviced out in a Legacy Servicing business declined 12% from second quarter levels and we’ll spend sometime later in the presentation talking about what that means going forward.
And our number of full time equivalent employees declined approximately 3 000 from the end of the second quarter related to a different New BAC initiatives.
If you turn to slide six a lot of information on the balance sheet highlight area I just want to draw your attention to three of the line items.
The first our tangible common equity ratio improved by 12 basis points to 6.95%.
If you move down the tangible book-value it grew by $0.26 in the quarter up to $13.48 and if you look at our adjusted loan coverage where we look at the allowance for loans over annualized charge-offs it improved during the quarter to 2.2 times.
If you turn to slide seven; as we’ve seen all year regulatory capital continued to strengthen.
Our Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital ratio was up 17 basis points to 11.41%.
Remember FVO in the tax charge do not impact regulatory capital.
As we near the 2013 implementation period for Basel 3 we’ve estimated our Tier 1 common equity ratio and it's components to provide a better understanding of where we are relative to the expected 2019 Basel 3 requirements.
Our estimate as per the final U.S.
market risk rules in the U.S.
Basel 3 NPRs.
As of the end of the third quarter on a fully phased-in basis we estimate that that Basel 3 Tier 1 capital ratio would have been 8.97%.
Recall last quarter we estimated Basel 3 under BIS Basel 3 guidelines to be approximately 8.1% and 7.95% applying the U.S.
Basel 3 NPRs.
If we look at the components of the ratio our Tier 1 common equity was $134.6 billion while our risk weighted assets would have been $1.501 trillion.
A couple points I would like to make before we leave this slide.
If we look at the improvement in the numerator of roughly $8 billion we did benefit during the quarter given the reduction that we saw in the rate environment where our OCI which flows through the balance sheet not the income statement was up about $3.2 billion and contributed 21 basis points to that ratio.
We also benefited on the denominator in portion of the increase due to the tightening credit spreads that we saw across the market that did benefit the denominator.
We turn to the slide eight and look at liquidity.
Global Excess Liquidity sources increased modestly from $378 billion to $380 billion during the quarter.
That was accomplished while we reduced the long-term debt footprint across the entire enterprise by about $15 billion.
A couple of actions of note during the third quarter; we had $6.2 billion of liability management actions which consisted primarily of parent redemptions of trust preferred securities as well as sub debt and in addition to that we had $12 billion of maturities that were repaid at the parent.
We took an additional action during the first quarter of October of calling $5.1 billion of additional trust preferred securities that will benefit NII by about $50 million in the fourth quarter of this year and on a go forward basis about $300 million.
And as we noted before there will be a loss upon the redemption that we’ll take in the fourth quarter of about $100 million.
If we focus on the parent company for just a moment parent company remained very strong at $102 billion.
And if you look at the reduction and liquidity combined or compared to the reduction in the debt footprint liquidity at the parent declined by $9 billion when the overall debt footprint at the parent shrink by $18 billion as we continue to move money from our bank subsidiaries up to the parent.
Time to required funding at the end of the quarter was at 35 months and as we move forward and continue to shrink the debt footprint and smooth out the maturity profile we would expect over the next six to eight quarters that you will see that time required funding migrate down to a targeted range in the 21 to 24 month timeframe.
On slide nine if we look at net interest income.
Net interest income on a reported basis increased from $9.8 billion or a yield of 2.21% in the second quarter to $10.2 billion or 2.32% during the third quarter.
If we adjust those numbers for market related hedge ineffectiveness as well as market related premium amortization or FAS 91 our net interest income increased from $10.3 billion or 2.32% up to $10.5 billion or 2.39% during the quarter.
If we look at the activity within the quarter we benefited during the quarter from the reduction of long-term debt driven by both our liability management actions as well as debt repayment.
In addition our trading related net interest income improved during the quarter.
Partially offsetting these improvements were lower consumer loan balances and yields as well as lower investment security yields.
Near-term if we look at where we are at the end of the third quarter and given existing rate levels we estimate that quarterly net interest income will start at the base of approximately $10.5 billion.
The impact of our liability management actions in our long-term debt maturities are expected to offset any headwinds that we see from continued pressure on both consumer loan balances as well as investment security portfolio repricing.
In general as you consider the rate environment if rates increased from the end of September we would look to see benefits in our net interest income.
And on the other side to the extent that the rates declined you could see reductions.
On slide 10 we get in to the businesses.
In consumer and business banking earnings were $1.3 billion during the quarter an increase of $130 million in the second quarter driven by lower non-interest expense in provision which were partially offset by lower revenue.
Non-interest income decreased from the second quarter due mainly to the impact of our consumer protection products.
Credit quality improved again as net charge-offs dropped to $170 million.
Average deposits increased almost $4 billion or 1% from the second quarter.
On slide 11 we give you some key indicators for our consumer and business banking area for the quarter.
Compared to the second quarter debit card purchased volumes declined seasonally while credit card purchase volumes adjusted for our portfolio of divestitures were relatively flat.
Retail credit spend per active account was up 6% from the third quarter of 2011.
If we look at the US credit card loss rate it’s the lowest that we’ve seen since the third quarter of 2006 while the 30 plus day delinquency rate is at a historic low.
Banking centers declined as we continue to optimize the delivery network around customer behaviors.
We did continue to increase our mobile banking customer base to more than 11 million people which is an 8% increase from the prior and up 30% from the year ago quarter.
We turn to slide 12 consumer real estate services reported a loss of $877 million during the quarter versus a loss of $766 million in the second quarter of this year.
Higher revenue which included MSR gains net of hedge results the sale of a business and [mobile] rep and warrant expense were more than offset by higher expenses as well as a higher provision.
The provision for reps and warrants was $307 million in the quarter a decrease from $395 million that we experienced in the second quarter.
Expenses were up $672 million LAS drove that expense increase due to higher litigation expense servicing cost and other mortgage related matters.
Provision increased $75 million during the quarter driven by the impact of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged at bankruptcy which I’ll discuss when I get to credit quality later in this presentation and it was partially offset by a recovery in the home equity PCI portfolio due to an improvement in the home price outlook.
The Home Loans business which is responsible for first-lien and home equity originations within this segment recorded a profit of $264 million for the quarter.
First mortgage retail originations of $20 billion were up 13% from the prior quarter due to lower rates and up 19% compared with retail originations a year ago.
As you’ll recall we exited the correspondent business late last year so current correspondent originations are non-existent versus volumes of approximately $16 billion a year ago even with the exist from the corresponded channel core production income is higher than the year ago our MSR asset decreased by $621 during the quarter driven primarily by lower mortgage rates and ended the quarter at $5.1 billion.
MSR hedge results more than offset market valuation declines.
And if we look at the Cap rate on the MSR at the end of the period it was at 45 basis points versus 47 basis points in the second quarter and 52 basis points a year ago.
On slide 13 we showed some comparisons of certain matrix in our legacy asset and servicing area on a linked-quarter basis as well as compared to a year ago as we continue to work very hard to reduce delinquent loans and find solutions for home owners.
As you’ll recall the legacy assets and servicing area reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.
Our domestic FTEs excluding contractors decreased for the first time in this area in 14 quarters.
The number of first-lien serviced drop 6% in the quarter but more importantly the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans dropped by 12%.
The drop in 60 day plus delinquencies will have a positive impact on our staffing levels in the fourth quarter and beyond as servicing cost going forward should benefit given that we were fully staffed in the third quarter to handle the various new programs and regulations.
And we’ve discussed previously we’ll continue hard both working through these delinquent loans internally as well as looking externally for solutions to reduce this number of delinquent loans.
On slide 14 you can see that our outstanding rep and warrant claims increased by 12% from the end of June versus the 41% increase we experienced during the second quarter of this year.
Outstanding claims from the GSEs did increase albeit at a slower rate as a result of ongoing disagreements with Fannie Mae about what constitutes a valid repurchase request.
Since June given the settlement we discussed last quarter with Syncora the backlog with Monolines has decreased.
On the private label side we had $1.9 billion increase in outstanding claims to a total of $10.5 billion at the end of the quarter.
The increased on the private label side is primarily due to claims received from trustees and securitization sponsors.
But keep in mind that this increase in aggregate non-GSE claims was taken in to consideration when we developed the increase in our reserves at the time of Bank of New York settlement during the second quarter of last year.
We would expect these claims to continue to grow as the process for ultimate resolution continues to evolve and remain somewhat unclear.
The other thing we ask you to keep in mind is this table reflects the unpaid principal amount of the loans not the actual amount of losses that are incurred on the loans.
Our reserve for reps and warrants at the end of the quarter increased slightly to $16.3 billion.
In the second quarter we provided a range of possible loss over and above existing reserve levels of up to $5 billion which only apply to non-GSE loans.
At the time a range was not provided for GSE activity as we were unable to estimate such a range.
In the third quarter as a result of ongoing dialogue and discussion with the GSEs we have obtained additional information from which we are now able to determine a reasonable estimate of a range of possible loss in excess of our recorded reps and warrants liabilities for the GSEs.
We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for both the GSEs and the non-GSEs for rep and warrant exposures could be up to $6 billion over our accruals of September 30th and compared to the up to $5 billion over accruals at June 30 which once again were only for non-GSE reps and warrant exposures.
The increase in the range of possible loss from our June 30 period is the net impact of among other changes updated assumptions and the inclusion of GSE rep and warrant exposure as well as other developments.
We move to our global wealth and investment management area on slide 15.
Earnings for the quarter of $542 million or a pre-tax margin of approximately 20% were inline with the results that we saw in the second quarter.
Period end deposit growth of $6.4 billion and period end loan growth of $2.1 billion help to offset the impact of the continued low rate environment.
Ending loan balances as I mentioned earlier were at record levels.
And solid long-term AUM flows of $5.7 billion help to offset seasonal declines.
This client activity along with the strong overall market performance in the third quarter should benefit our fourth quarter results.
If we move to global banking on slide 16 we had net income in the third quarter of $1.3 billion which reflected higher net interest income and a reduction in expenses that was offset by gains in the second quarter related the certain legacy assets dispositions which did not recur in the third quarter.
Period and loans and leases increased $6.7 billion or 2.5% from the second quarter with growth across C&amp;I commercial real estate leasing as well as some quarter end findings.
Average deposit balances were up 5% from the second quarter to $252 billion as our corporate customers remain very liquid.
Asset quality continued to be very strong and continued the trend from prior quarters net charge-offs were down NPL NPAs dropped 20% to $2.6 billion and our reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 17%.
On slide 17 investment banking fees investment banking fees at $1.336 billion were up nicely over both the prior quarter up 17% as well as up 42% from the year ago period.
We look at where we were relative to our competitors; we maintained a strong number two global ranking in fees to date.
And as you can see below we continue to have leading market shares globally in many of these businesses.
We switch to Global Markets on slide 18.
Earnings were impacted by a DVA loss of approximately $580 million and the tax charge for changes in the UK corporate tax rate.
If we back out the DVA and the charge for taxes net income actually increased 41% from the second quarter to $789 million.
Revenue ex-DVA for the entire segment was up 5% and once again DVA losses in the quarter of $580 million last quarter losses were $156 million and those compared to gains in the year ago period to approximately $1.7 billion.
Sales and trading revenue ex-DVA was down 3% from the second quarter but improved substantially from year ago levels.
Within FICC the core businesses of credit mortgages and rates and currencies performed very well.
Our FICC revenue ex-DVA was essentially flat with the second quarter at $2.5 billion delivering a solid performance.
In equities excluding DVA results decreased 8% from the second quarter as lower volatility and a continued lack of investor appetite for equity products depressed volumes.
On the expense side expenses declined from both the second quarter in the prior year driven by lower personnel related expense as well as lower operational costs.
Average VAR for the quarter was $55 million down 12% from the second quarter and 67% from the prior year.
And as we look at that we continue to generate increasing levels of revenue for each dollar of risk that we take within this segment.
On slide 19 we show you the results of all other which includes our Global Principal Investments business the non-U.S.
consumer card business our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management insurance as well as the discontinued real estate portfolio.
The revenue decrease from the second quarter of this year was due to a negative valuation of adjustment of $1.3 billion on structured liabilities under FVO and lowered gains on debt and trust preferred repurchases partially offset by higher equity investment income during the quarter.
The increase in non-interest expense was due to higher litigation expense and if we were to exclude that non-interest expense declined compared to the second quarter.
On slide 20 non-interest expense I would like to make a couple of comments here.
Non-interest expense of $17.5 billion was down slightly from the third quarter of last year and up relative to the second quarter of this year.
If we were to back out the increase in litigation expense that we incurred during the quarter non-interest expense actually declined from Q2 to Q3.
If we look at the components of that we saw improvements in personnel costs and other cost savings realized from our New BAC initiatives and that was partially offset by higher cost of mortgage servicing and other mortgage related matters which as I mentioned previously we would expect to see come down in the fourth quarter relative to the third.
We also invested in selective growth areas during the quarter in our mortgage loan officers our small business bankers and our financial solution advisors.
If we move down and you look at the number of full-time equivalent employees we started to implement Phase I of New BAC in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Outside of LAS which is the grey bar you can see since we began the implementation we have reduced the FTEs across the company outside of Legacy Assets and Servicing by almost 21 000 people or over 8% since we began that implementation.
And as you can see Legacy Assets and Servicing FTEs increased but have now stabilized and as I said we would expect the sub start seeing come down in the fourth quarter.
If we turn to slide 21 although provision was relatively flat with the second quarter there were two events that impacted both the net charge-offs and non-performing loans that you’ve heard others to speak about.
The first regulators did provide new guidance to the industry in the third quarter of this year that stated loans discharged from the courts as part of the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy should be written down the collateral value and classified as non-performing irrespective of the borrowers’ payment status.
As a result we charged-off $478 million in loans and reduced reserves by $139 million resulting in a provision increase of $339 million in the quarter as a result of this new guidance.
Non-performing loans increased by $1.1 billion as a result of this change and $954 million or 91% of these borrowers are current on their contractual payments.
Of these contractually performing loans more than 70% were discharged from bankruptcy more than 12 months ago and nearly 40% were discharged 24 months or more ago.
The other change recall in March we and other large mortgage servicers agreed in the settlement with the DOJ and 49 state attorneys to provide programs to assist home owners in modifying loans and other borrower assistant programs.
We referred to that as the national mortgage settlement.
As a result of these agreements we incurred charge-offs in the third quarter of $435 million related to the extinguishment of non-purchased credit impaired loans in this home equity portfolio.
This $435 million had a corresponding decrease in non-performing loans that we reported at the end of third quarter.
These loans were under water and in the later stages of delinquency or were loans that were current on their junior-lien but severely delinquent on their underlying first.
Associated with this settlement we also extinguished $1.7 billion of home equity loans in the PCI portfolio resulting in a decline in both the portfolio as well as the corresponding reserve.
These items had no provision impact as reserves for these loans were already established.
If we turn to slide 22 we’ve laid out here the third quarter of last year second quarter of this year and third quarter and then adjusted the numbers on the far right column for this change in regulatory guidance and the National Mortgage Settlement and what you see here are three points that we would like to make.
First is net charge-offs after making these adjustments declined $417 million or 11.5% as our underlying asset quality trends continue to strengthen.
Second 30 plus day performing consumer delinquencies excluding fully insured consumer real estate loans declined about $200 million or 2% and our non-performers decreased $1.4 billion or 5.7% versus the second quarter driven equally by improvements in both commercial as well as consumer loan quality.
And on the commercial side our utilized reservable criticized exposure improved by 15% or about $3 billion.
As we look at credit quality for the balance of the year we would expect the provision as we discussed at the end of last quarter to be in the range of $1.8 billion which is what we’ve seen over the last two quarters and $2.4 billion which we saw during the first quarter so that guidance is unchanged from what we have given before.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Bruce.
I am going to cover slide 23 and add a few thoughts before we take your questions.
If you think back to when we started the year we said that we focus no a few key areas.
Building the capital of the company continue to mange risk continue reducing the cost base of the company and driving our core business growth for the franchise.
As you look at the results Bruce covered I think we have shown strong results and we’re moving in the right direction in every area.
Our industry leading Tier 1 common capital levels provided solid base to serve our customers and balance sheet that can do great customer business.
But what I wanted to draw your attention to on this slide is the progress we made across our three groups of customers and clients whether it’s our consumers or companies or institutional investors.
If you look at the business lines that Bruce described our operational metrics are improving across the board and the cost of each of the operating businesses other than LAS were down linked quarter and year-over-year while revenues continue to be solid.
For the individual consumers we serve our deposits continue to grow; our net account growth was solid this quarter and we regained the market share in the direct to consumer mortgage lending business.
With our preferred clients in our consumer business our growth continues as we continue to improve the offers we have for those clients with increased checking accounts and brokerage assets in our Merrill Lynch platforms.
If you think about our service network overall we continue to optimize it reducing branches as we meet the customer behavior changes as they move to online and mobile banking which continues to increase nicely with 11 million users in the mobile and tablet platform.
The companies we serve are also doing more business with us; small business originations are up as Bruce stated earlier.
Loans continue to expand and investment banking fees continue to grow.
As we move to our institutional investor clients we continue to add to our industry leading research capabilities and our sales and trading revenue continue to do well in an overall different environment and the markets that we had during the summer months.
So this quarter shows the progress that the company continues to make.
It shows the hard work of all our teammates of streamlining and simplifying the company is paying off.
It shows the strength of the integrated business model which serves customers and clients in a way that no other firm can.
And it shows how that combination deepens relationships provides the best-in-class financial capabilities and will drive growth.
With that Bruce and I would be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go first to the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Just some extraordinary I would say performance on the capital ratio; wanted to kind of talk about that a little bit did I hear correctly that that 8.97 is inclusive of the terms of the NPR? That's correct.
So as you think about that I heard that some notes that there were some kind of benefits that could be somewhat temporary but obviously over the next several quarters one would expect that to continue to improve.
Can you talk a little bit about whether you are looking for improvement either in RWAs or your deductions and then also how you think about that since you are likely to be more or less or either now or certainly in three months at the levels that you’d be required by the combination of Basel 3 capital requirement and (inaudible).
When we look at the ratio lets talk first about the numerator than we can go to the denominator.
As I said there was about $3 billion on the numerator of the $8 billion that related to things that we benefited from rates.
We will obviously see how that goes going forward but I just want to make sure that there was 3 billion there.
On the numerator side because of where we are with respect to having NOLs as we go forward where we are going to be different than most of our peers is on the numerator side.
Our pretax income is going to tend to approximate the net income as it relates to capital build.
So we’ve got benefits going forward relative to our peers based on using those NOLs which as you all are aware are excluded from a Basel perspective.
On the denominator side there are three things that we would also continue to benefit from as we look to drive this number higher.
The first is on the retail credit side.
We noted here during the quarter that we had about $27 billion of benefit in risk weighted assets through both the reduction in consumer exposures as well as improvement within the credit portfolio that we saw on the consumer side.
And as we continue to reduce non-performing mortgages as well as one of the consumer credit portfolios in the card business we’d look to continue to have benefit there.
The second thing is that the structured credit in some of the legacy books will continue to run off between now and 2017 we’ll benefit from that.
And then third there obviously continues to be a lot of work that’s done with respect to models in developing the systems to make sure that your measurements are appropriate here.
So we feel very good about the capital build during the quarter and we think as we go forward that the ability to continue to optimize and drive that Basel 3 number continue to have real opportunity for us.
Just a follow-up on that that’s great on the tactical side what about strategically now that you are pretty much where you need to be how do you think about that capital level differently and do you think about it in terms of your approach towards allocating to businesses or distributions how should we think about that? I wouldn’t and one other things that we highlighted I’m going to speak first on Basel 1 to that question that over the course of the last couple of quarters as we’ve look to optimize our Basel 1 ratio we were obviously very tight and have fairly firm limits on loan growth as we look to optimize the balance sheet as we’ve gotten the balance sheet to where we wanted to be that clearly pursuing loan growth in this rate environment is very much a priority.
And if you look at what we did during this quarter it’s the culmination of several quarters of work where we started to see good loan growth within the GWIM business.
We saw the increase in mortgage production not all of which is loan growth but some of it is loan growth and then on the banking and market side where loan growth was extraordinarily strong.
So we are using the strength in the balance sheet to look to drive growth in the loan side.
We are obviously doing it in a prudent way with borrowers that have the credit quality that we should be extending to and you have seen the results of some of that.
On Basel 3 as we worked through Basel 3 a little bit of shift in mindset and that you are looking to optimize and consider both how things get measured as well as under Basel 3 as Basel 1 Basel 3 going forward is going to be the governor on capital distributions so we are obviously very mindful to be managing the balance sheet with Basel 3 front of mind.
We are obviously at point at the end of the quarter upwards of 9% where we are very close to or in access of the stated minimums we’ll need to work and see where the [safety] buffer comes out.
To think we positioned ourselves very well for both growing the business as well as we look forward going through to [seek our] process.
That should mean that if this process is ongoing that you would expect to see loan growth accelerate honestly from here? I am not going to suggest on an annualized basis that we saw commercial and corporate loan growth of 10% that you are going to see accelerate.
It can bump around a little bit in any quarter but you should expect and know that internally with those areas that have returns we are pushing and looking to drive loan growth that's correct.
I would add that the impact of the portfolios that we identified going back a couple a years to runoff which helps in the capital because as Bruce said earlier they actually capital is less now then it was then because A they are smaller and the quarterly runoff is more muted which then allows a loan growth to come through the bottom line.
So think about the card business for example we're getting in a place where we’ve got pretty well positioned where we want and I think with Bruce still here and 75 000 new card customers this quarter a little bit more than we did last quarter and we're driving very high credit quality.
Exactly what we want and we're driving that out.
So as you think about the ability to show loan growth through the sort of all the ins and outs of the runoff portfolios that’s where we're just starting to see to as those things are getting smaller through the [hole].
We’ll take our next question from the side of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Bruce on the net interest income you said that the 10.5 billion is a good starting point for the fourth quarter NII? That’s correct John.
And what are the puts and takes from there? Did you say that you hope to get some debt reductions or the benefits of debt reductions could offset the headwinds that you expect from low rates and runoffs? Did I hear that right? Sure.
During the third quarter we had 6.2 billion as I mentioned a trough that occurred during the quarter and $12 billion of stated maturities.
We’ll have the full benefit of those during the fourth quarter as oppose to just a partial benefit.
The second thing is the reduction of the troughs we’ll have the $50 million benefit that I mentioned in the fourth quarter and we're continuing to push deposit pricing down.
So that’s a benefit as well.
So as we look at the fourth quarter absent any unexpected decline in rates in any impact of negative hedging effectiveness or FAS 91.
We would expect net interest income to be at least in the fourth quarter what was in the third quarter.
What about the next year NII Bruce do you have additional tools on the cost funding side? Do you hope to keep that $10.5 billion run rate or grow or see some pressure from that? Can you give some perspective for next year? We’re managing the portfolio to look to be able to continue to have modest increases in NII through what we’re doing on the debt footprint as well as deposit pricing.
So the goal is to continue to push that up.
We think we’ve got a good plan in place to continue to do that.
We obviously can’t predict interest rates but if they were just to stay where they are in the forward curve or to materialize we think we’ll be successful in doing that.
Okay.
And then switching over to expenses do you have any sense of where you might be on the litigation reserve bill cycle later innings or anyway to frame that for us? The Merrily Lynch class action settlement was a significant litigation item to get behind us.
And as you look at litigation going forward we’ve narrowed that with this settlement in large part that there are cases are obviously outside of mortgage but largely the majority of the litigation that we have now with the Merrill Lynch settlement is within the mortgage area.
And we obviously provide reserves for what we think we have and in the disclosure we give guidance on range of possible loss for what we would expect within the litigation area and we continue to work through those.
With where we’ve build the balance sheet obviously getting these behind us is something that we would like to do but we’re only going to do it in a way that makes sense for the shareholder.
Okay.
And then on the LAS side you mentioned that with the 60 plus delinquents moving down you should start to see the LAS expenses come down next quarter? From an operating basis John we saw the first decline in FTE you can see the contract is a little higher.
The third quarter was a lot of work because it was a combination of Department of Justice the timely mind work and also just the general work.
But as we look at it in even sense at the quarter end we’ve seen the headcounts start to come down already even further.
So this thing has been - have done a lot of work on operating basis we’d say the numbers of people and stuff like that it will be down in the fourth quarter.
The question is from the litigation perspective you know those are things bouncing around a little bit if you look across all the last quarter.
But from an operating basis we’ve already reduced the headcount in the fourth quarter from what it was in the third quarter.
So I guess from a total expenses all end jumping off point for the fourth quarter if we adjust for our own estimate a litigation reserves first [tell] what you think would be a number for the expenses to jump off from? I think if you just for the litigation expenses those are going to be a good place to jump off from and as Brian referenced we think there is the opportunity within the LAS areas to start driving those expenses down in the fourth quarter and clearly into 13.
John the way we think about it as we look at it year-over-year third quarter last year third quarter this year we had sort of flat expenses but if you look at the impact of the increase and litigation increase in LAS the rest the company is down $1 billion or so in operating expenses.
And that will move up or down because with a better training quarter we could have some more compensation there but you are seeing the impacts of new BAC plus the other [nations] and the company taking the expenses down and we are just continue to work at.
That being said we are still making investments in those company to make sure that we are doing the right thing to have a franchise and want coming of out.
So more loan officers FSAs preferred bankers and $3 billion plus in systems development work this year (inaudible) million of which is going to help us get the expense stay down in future years.
So we’re trying to balance that and that you would see expenses from the core basis what I am pointing out continuing to trend down and we're feeling better about that and the best in this quarter is we think as you look at the LAS you see the breakpoint here and we will see how to keep driving that down in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And the last thing from me is on the mortgage banking fee results.
First can you drill down a little bit of the drivers of the strong mortgage banking fees; you mentioned the origination volume.
Just what you saw gain on sale margins and then also how did the MSR hedge gains contributed and was there a business sale as well that you mentioned? Sure.
Within mortgage banking we did see a business sale that was about $175 million of a small ancillary business that materialized in the quarter.
The second thing is with respect to mortgage margins they stayed relative firm in the third quarter relative to the second quarter given that the activities that the industry had industry-wide.
And the third point of your question is if you go and look at page 26 of our supplement when you mention the MSR hedge that relative to the last couple of quarters we were about $350 million better in the third quarter than we had been the prior several quarters and we detailed that on slide 26.
John one thing I would say tying those two questions together on the origination side you can see the volumes coming up but we’ve added 3 000 more people during this year than we thought we have in the underwriting fulfillment side of the good mortgage side to help us get the volumes going and those people continue to come on stream.
So our capacity to grow there is expanding and some of the people that were into all that account you can see but some of the people we were taking out LAS were converting to the first mortgage business because it needs experience to mortgage to help build our capacity like a lot of our colleagues the volume levels have been high and our capacity get them close with the underlying standards; it’s been a lot of work and so we’ve added 3 000 or 4 000 people I think at this point but then when we thought we would be this year and we’ll continue to do that to capture the revenue.
We’ll move next to the site of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
I am looking at slide 39 and slide seven on the capital and I am sorry maybe I am a little but the slide there and I am trying to reconcile and then slide 39 is very helpful and it’s obviously nice and that the numerator is going up and the denominator is going down.
But if we’re looking at slide 39 I guess which I am confused about which of these movements are due to say changes in markets and rates and spreads and so on; how much of the movement is actually due to changes in the underlying assets and then how much of the movement is due to the changes in models and assumptions if you look at the main categories on slide 39? Okay.
This bridge between June 30th and September 30th will be very close recall that when we reported at June we were using BIS as opposed to at September 30th that we’re now using the U.S.
NPR that had some about 15 basis points difference.
But with that being said if you look at the 126.8 to the 134.6 it’s roughly $8 billion and of that $8 billion roughly $3.2 billion was due to the impact that rates had on our securities portfolio as well as our MSR.
That's the piece that was impacted by rates and there was nothing that we directly did to impact that.
The rest of what you saw during the quarter had to do with pre-tax earnings before FVO which does not affect regulatory capital it had to do with some different assets if the bank that are no longer excluded from the calculation and it had to do with a variety of other things including the fact that we no longer have any 10% threshold deductions in the number.
That's the bridge on the numerator.
Okay.
If you move to the denominator and you look at the page 39 it’s about $65 billion reduction in risk weighted assets let me give you the three biggest buckets of that.
As I mentioned earlier the first bucket is about $27 billion as it relates to retail or consumer exposures.
The lion share of that $27 billion have to do with either reductions in the actual exposure or the core credit improvement that we saw within the book and a very small amount of that had to do with any model changes or model optimization.
The second big bucket that’s out there is in the OTC derivatives in repo which was about $26 billion.
If you look at those numbers almost all of that $26 billion had to do with either reductions in exposure improvements with how we manage collateral or improvements in the underlying quality of the counterparty.
The third bucket and the smallest bucket of which about is about $18 billion is a variety of things included within that $18 billion bucket spread tightening that we saw out in the market that resulted in the ratio coming down; you can see though that the $18 billion is relatively small compared to the overall $65 billion.
Thank you for that.
That’s the best explanation any bankers have ever offered and I think it’s a model for the rest of the industry and I appreciate that.
The other thing I was just wondering on slide 21 you were the only bank that flagged the impact of the mortgage settlement.
Everybody talked about the OCC guidance.
But is this roughly $400 million is this going to be a quarterly thing for a while that we're going to you know obviously you’ve made provisions for these the impact of the NMS but should we expect to see charge-offs at an elevated level for a year or two? No as we work through the National Mortgage Settlement we're working very hard to beat through a significant portion of the obligations that we have for modifications.
The third quarter -- and I think we have a pretty good sense for this without question will be the largest number like this that comes through probably very small in the fourth quarter and maybe a little bit of carryover in the next year but this is by far the most significant quarter that you will see with this.
As you said it doesn’t affect the provision because you’ve got both a write-off as well as an allowance but that should be a lot smaller going forward.
We’ll go next to the site of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
A couple of follow-ups on the legacy mortgage costs and looking out beyond fourth quarter just trying to get a sense of how quickly they may come down and I guess how easy you think it may be to forecast just think about modest loan price appreciation from here and nothing unusual on the regulatory side?  Well I think I would say that we expect them to come down there have been one of the things that’s been difficult about this is the third party impacts and timing of that and from what we may have thought last year at this time for example so the Department of Justice settlement took longer to get finalized therefore it took longer to put in so those yeah so there is outside impacts going to have them.
But given everything we know we would expect them to come down next quarter and beyond.
We got to be careful because sometimes there are sort of non-operating adjustments in there.
So just if you think about the headcount and the work we do because the 60 plus day delinquencies are down as you see on the slide that we can forecast in the work and what we’re seeing as we’re modifying a lot of loans and getting through those the short sale volumes are as high as they’ve ever been and the liquidation volumes are high.
So everything we see says that we just have to be a little careful about how we report our quarter based on ebbs and flows and some of the legislation gets passed the state levels and things like that and they can have an impact.
I would tell you that what we’re seeing as the inventory clears very quickly so as we get to the properties they sell quickly within 60 days to 90 days that’s been true; we’re seeing by geography that areas where the process can move forward and we’re seeing the outstanding 60 plus rate drop more dramatically because in the California Arizona versus the areas which moved a little slower New Jersey or Illinois for example.
But everything we said this is this is coming down because the works going away.
You point your finger to the one key question which is if changes are made to the policies or programs that can slow it down but I don't think there is much volume; we are seeing reduction 60 plus that would overcome that frankly.
And maybe I’ll just toss some numbers out there you are at $12 billion annual run rate right now I feel like at one point you said $2 billion could be a more sustainable level as you move through all this so that's a $10 billion decline.
Any guess on does it take two years to get through that is it five years to get through that? I think we would look at it and say ‘13 and into ‘14 it would be through that base and I think we noted that.
Okay.
But again that’s subject to caveat and something change in rules something change in the rules but right now as we said we would expect that as we move through next year the year end numbers would still be elevated but as we move into ‘14 you would see them come down to more normalized levels.
We are doing everything we can move to get through this as quick as possible.
Okay.
And then just other topic here you know as we think about maybe some of the interest rates out there outside the treasury so like mortgage rates the agency RMBS rates and I think a lot of other asset classes you have seen rates come down in the securities side.
How you just conceptually think about managing the discretionary book from here and I understand you are trying to grow C&amp;I loans a little bit more but obviously the discretionary book is still a pretty big chunk and you have a lot of deposits that you need to try and balance? One of the things that we are not going to do in this rate environment is stretch for yield and create an OCI problem under Basel 3 going forward.
So on the securities portfolio if you aggregate the securities portfolio as well as our whole loan portfolio it's about a $600 billion total number that we're managing.
It has an average life of about 2.5 years.
And as I mentioned on the questions for net interest income even with where we're reinvesting things that are either come due or repaid we think the shrinkage in the long-term debt footprint will at least cover what we’ve got as far as repricing absent no changes and forward rates going forward.
You bring up a good point which the industry is obviously focused on is that the one area and the one area and the one asset class that doesn’t have OCI risk and that’s funded on the asset side the way we fund our liabilities is loan growth and we’ve been pushing over the last couple of quarters for that loan growth.
As we talked about we saw in GWIM as well as in the institutional side we started to see that loan growth and it's obviously as it relates to matching in the way that we manage capital where we would like to be.
So it's obviously an environment that’s not easy to manage in but we think we got a variety of levers most notably a high cost debt that we can continue to take down so that you see some more type results to what we saw this quarter.
We’ll go next to the site of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Two questions the first just in terms of the GSE related mortgage repurchase claims.
You know obviously we're seeing other banks sort of move through that process build reserves to sort of put that claim risk behind them.
I know you’re in a dispute with Fannie.
Any sense of how you expect that dispute to get resolved do you think that’s something that you’ll just sort of gradually resolve with the additional reserves and resolutions over time do you expect to see some kind of a settlement with Fannie.
Any sense of when that overhang might get sort of put in to the rearview mirror or how it will be put into the rearview mirror? The first point Ed that we’ve made here and you see it in the numbers is that with respect to current winnages things that have been under (inaudible) over the last couple of years where we have an obligation to repurchase those and we have been repurchasing those.
What you see when you look at the schedules are that the increases in the unpaid or the balance of outstanding claims which as I said are notional not losses where you’re seeing the build up is in those payments where they’re greater than 24 months.
So with respect to the piece that’s greater than 24 months I would really just repeat what we’ve said previously that there are two ways that this gets resolved we have different points of view on this we continue to have ongoing discussions and I think the most likely outcomes are either that there is a settlement of a sort or there is some other way that we look to resolve that and that core disagreement remains.
As we’ve said in the disclosures and how we’ve updated the range of possible loss there are ongoing discussions but there is obviously nothing done.
Well that’s sort of serves of my point; the two sides have this core disagreement.
You know I guess you are probably unwilling to speculate how you sort of come to the middle on that core disagreement but do you feel like its in your best interest now to sort of maybe be more proactive on that try to meet in the middle try to get that settle and try to get that for behind you or do you feel pretty firm in your stance that we are right and we are going to keep digging out in our heels on this issue? Given the disclosure we’ve put out we obviously feel pretty strongly about what our position is here.
At the same time and as we seen in Merrill Lynch getting these legacy issues to the extent it makes any type of economic sense for the shareholder behind us is a good thing and eliminates an element of uncertainty in your mind.
And the last time I just said it’s going to be the right decision for the shareholders and that's what we do day in and day out as we try to put these different issues behind us.
The second question has to do with capital.
It was only about a little over a year ago that one doctor was making an investment in your company and the chatter was all around the potential that has to build capital.
Now all of a sudden we are looking at your capital ratios and thinking a lot about excess capital.
I am sure you probably don't want to give us outlook and predictions in terms of capital return in conjunction with the CCAR but can you give us a sense you’ve spend so much time in the last 18 months building capital clearly there are shareholders that are obviously looking for dividend entries some are looking for a stock buyback especially after looking at the capital ratios today.
Can you give us any sense of how you are thinking about capital over the next 12 months above and beyond what's going to be used for internal loan growth? Those capital ratios are going to continue to build based on some of the guidance that you just gave us over the last 45 minutes and there is going to be a lot of people interested in thinking about what how your thoughts are around dividend increases and stock buyback for the next 12 months as those ratios continue to build.
We will start the work on the CCAR process in 30 days or so when we get the information and so we won't speculate on that.
But I think starting up on the broader perspective we have made it clear that the capital we have in this company has been sufficient based on all the work that we’ve been doing in the last couple of years.
We’ve been cleared that the capital is sufficient to run the company and to support the company growth and all the capital above that.
When we have to get the approval we’ll go back to shareholders either as dividends or share [repurchasers] till we frankly build the capital levels that we you know there is no reason to retain the capital at all.
So it's all your capital it's all the shareholders capital until we get to the levels that we can return it.
It's on the balance sheet in our tangible book value per share which we focus on and growing and see that continues to grow and then after we hit the levels that would be SIFI buffer  plus minus whatever cushion that we feel comfortable impacts the CCAR.
It's all going back in one way or the other way.
And then just last question related to that and Brian in your mind there is still are some overhanging litigation issues.
There is still up to $6 billion or mortgage repurchased related cost that you outlined.
Are those things that sort of at least in the near-term will make you a little bit extra cautious on capital retention relative to where we otherwise think you might be until you sort of get those litigation and repo issues more fully resolved? All I have to take account in the technical rules of [QR and AS] and in things that we look.
But think about this quarter we basically had a breakeven quarter we passed a major milestone in putting behind a major piece of litigation and the litigation expenses were $1.6 billion or whatever they were and we still built capital.
So it factors into it obviously but on the other hand we have lots of ways to build capital and so we are focused on getting the position that you suggest which is that we start returning all the capital we’ve promised we have to get to the CCAR process and until we sort of see that we can’t project on that but in those processes and in our mindset all that is factored in but if you look at the track record we continue to build capital even though we’ve been putting behind this major piece of litigation every quarter on several quarters.
We’ll go next to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi two question.
One was on the hedge that you’ve historically had on the [AOCI] book.
Have you been changing the size of that and at this stage as well.
I’m sorry I am cut out Betsy.
So do you have a hedge on the AOCI book and I was just wondering if you still have that in place? On the overall securities book? Yeah.
Yeah as we’ve said a lot of the longer duration fixed rates we do swap to floating to minimize the AOCI risk.
Okay.
And did you change the size of the hedge at all during the quarter? Nothing material within the securities book this quarter no.
Okay.
And then separately there are some regulators who are suggesting that the debt portion of the balance sheet from senior debt through lastly (inaudible) correctly should be somewhere in the 25% to 30% range and I am wondering if and I just have two question and I am wondering if you’ve had any conversations with regulators about that do you feel but there was anything that you would need to do in that side of the debt stack? It’s something that’s very topical.
Even with the changes that we have made to our debt footprint.
If you look at our debt footprint on any type of absolute and relative measure relative to our peers we are at the high end which obviously from an expense perspective is not a good thing.
So we are not going to predict what's going to happen going forward from a regulatory perspective but I think given that we have on a relative basis more between parent and Merrill Lynch that our peers that will be able to manage that well and we look at maturities and over the course that next year we have maturities of about $30 billion of debt and we would expect to repay a large portion of that through cash that we generate and through the existing cash resources we have in the company.
Okay.
So as we [evolve] through the next couple of years we should see the same case of long term debt decline or in a little bit of deceleration into the next year or two? What I would model in is that a large portion of the maturities the way we lay those out will be taken out with existing cash not new long term debt.
Periodically we will raise debt we’ve said 21 to 24 months time to funding that would tend to migrate you down to a liquidity at the parent level in the zip code of $75 billion to $80 billion and as we’ve said think 2013 think 2014 that the majority of that debt would be repaid with cash resources.
Okay.
And then just lastly on capital one of the capital rules has to do with holding a hair cutting against the CRM I think it’s an 8% hair cut or so.
So when you talk about full model approvals you are assuming that that hair cut goes away is that correct? I think you are referring to -- which model -- you referring to CEM? Right.
If we look at in the capital numbers that we quote we've assumed CEM and IMM approval.
And with the different work that we’ve done the spread between what our IMM numbers are versus our CMM numbers has gotten much higher.
So to the extent any model where it take longer to get approved we have reduced that risk significantly as we built capital.
We’ll go next to the side of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Your line is now open.
Two questions; on GWIM the 20.1% pretax margin obviously depressed by the interest rate environment etcetera etcetera.
Is there a target operating margin there or is it somewhere we can sort of imagine a more normalized margin over the next years because it seems like that business is sort of under contributing significantly at this point? I think that you pointed out that one of the strategies is to increase margins in wealth management businesses overall has been to drive the loans and deposits along with the strong asset management business we have.
And I think as rates normalize Nancy and I guess normal is going to be hard to define here for the near term as they normalize you’ll that value has come back up and that’ll increase the pre-tax margin because we don’t need to do any more work to gather that in i.e.
on the deposits side specially.
If you look at them year-over-year they are down about 4% in expenses (inaudible) banks run the two business for us U.S.
Trust and Global Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management have been working on expenses.
So revenues here will be flat and expenses are down and they’re continuing to work on a non-client facing expenses especially and they’ll be a beneficiary of all that work so I think that’ll help the margins.
But remember that the core brokerage revenue which is at and investment management revenue for the Merrill Lynch side as a group of the company is a lower margin business our margins are better than anybody else and so we’ve got to continue to improve them.
But we look for that to improve but I’d be careful about assuming how much improvement moving up 3% 4% might be doable but I wouldn’t assume that it’ll get back to a private banking style margin because the dominance of the Merrill Lynch the traditional brokerage revenue streams.
The other thing is in overall so remember that we’re selling the international GWIM which had low margin which will help improve the margins going forward.
Okay.
One more question on the litigation front; we’ve seen a couple of new lawsuits dumped on the banking industry over the past couple of weeks you’ve got the [settlement to] with JPM regarding stuff required in their sterns and then you’ve got the Fed’s of course suing Wells Fargo on FHA way pre-crisis stuff.
Are you guys vulnerable to either of those and have you already had provisions into various other settlements that you’ve been involved in that would address any of those issues?  As an industry there is no question that there has been an increase in that activity so by virtue of being in the industry you are out there I think the one thing that’s important and if you go back to our DOJ AG settlement and when we took the hit for about $500 million when we announced that settlement it covered a lot of the FHA activity predating I believe it was sometime in the latter half of 2009.
So that piece of it relative to others we have resolved several quarters ago it was obviously it was a big number to resolve so we do have that one that’s out there behind us whereas some others don't and it was one of the key parts of that settlement for us.
So we’re little different from that perspective and we will just have to see how the balance of it unfolds and if other things come up.
We’ll go next to the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
First a question on loan growth what has commercial loan utilization done in this quarter versus the last quarter or two? It really it’s not so much that utilization of revolvers that has maintained and has remained in that loans 30s level.
The loan growth that we’re seeing is more actual funded loans that we’re making as opposed to revolver draws.
And I noticed that commercial loans grew 14% annualized linked quarter and that the period end loans were up a lot more than the average loans.
Is anything happening in the economy to accelerate that commercial loan growth I guess at the end of the quarter or is this just Bank of America’s specific strategy? I think we have been pushing and looking to do more on the lending front for several quarters and we saw some of that materialize.
And the one note I would Mike and we have it back in this slide if you look at our banking segment we did have one or two fundings at the end of the quarter that will get repaid during the fourth quarter.
So it was a little bit accelerated in the fourth quarter but even if you account to that back we still saw very strong loan growth in the quarter.
Alright there will be noise when we compare fourth quarter to third quarter? It will be; but like I said even without that the growth was very strong.
And you said loan growth is a priority.
Are you willing to lower rates in order to stimulate more loan growth?  We’ve been very disciplined and if you look in the supplement and look at the average spread in our loan growth on the commercial side that would be new originations and the spreads on that have remained at relatively flat on both on a quarter-over-quarter basis and while we want to make loans but the loans that we make have to make economic sense and to have the returns on capital that are consistent with where we are taking the business and the opportunities that we’ve seen and the ability to grow the book are generating those returns and we feel good about it.
And I think you have to take a step back and look at the macro environment where here in the U.S.
you’ve got banks that are competing and given the large liquidity basis that we have and capital basis looking to get invested some of the loan growth and if you look at it outside of the U.S.
as we see some of the different foreign banks pull back the opportunities for us to grow our loan base where relatively speaking were smaller internationally we are using the opportunity with the capital and liquidity that we have to take advantage of that and you can see it in some of the trade finance and other loan areas outside the United States.
Alright so demand is not a whole lot better you’re not doing what’s right to your gaining share from foreign banks; it might part of it anything else you want to add to that list?  We referenced in the slide that in the real estate area the first time in several quarters that we’ve seen growth in commercial real estate.
We shape that business down when things got tough to a level that we thought make sense from a risk perspective and we’re now in a position to be able to start growing that.
And while we’re focused on doing things with our customers we’ve seen one or two portfolios not huge size that have come up that we’ve been able to bring in and when we do that the first thing that we look at in those portfolios are how much of the exposure of the portfolio is the people that we do business with and we would like to do more and we’ve had a couple of situations where we’ve been able to bring those portfolios in and become more significant with clients that we want to become more significant with.
And then switching gears it was a good mortgage quarter.
Are you holding any of the newly originated mortgages upon the balance sheet or are you securitizing and selling those immediately? A couple of points on that the first is we talked about loan growth within our Global Wealth and Investment Management area of a little over $2 billion on a notional amount for the quarter.
A portion of that was mortgage lending that we do with that client base as well as securities base lending so that there was some growth in mortgages within the GWIM space.
Outside of the Global Wealth and Investment Management space we are looking at starting to hold a little bit of conforming product where the product is priced and has the return that we think makes sense.
So you may see in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of next year holding a little bit more conforming product but there was nothing material in that like during the third quarter.
But I mean just which spreads the way they are why would you want to hold any mortgage loans on the balance sheet? Some of the mortgage loans were the mortgage loans that we make that in many cases tend to be more non-conforming not conforming.
Okay.
But the non-conforming pricing can make sense and depending on the duration some of the conforming stuff may or may not make sense.
But your point is the right one and it’s consistent with how we manage the different portfolios; we’re not going to go out on the curve and take undue interest rate risk chasing yield in the short term.
And then last question there has been some articles recently about Merrill Lynch hiring brokers from other financial advisors.
Are we about to see a war for financial advisor talent; are you looking to be above your number of financial advisors or just a general strategy for expanding the (inaudible)? We have a change our strategy we have Mike we have been fairly consistent in how we have worked on it so we basically hire financial advisors and we bring advisors in the business for our PMD and our FSA programs; but no change from our standpoint.
And next to the site of Paul Miller with FBR.
Your line is open.
Yeah just to piggyback Michael on the mortgage banking side.
You guys used to be very a large player in the mortgage banking; we know you’ve exited both the wholesale and the corresponding business.
But given where we are today and how profitable the mortgage banking space is are you rethinking that a strategy could you reenter the corresponding market or you’re just planning to growth to the retail markets? We are not changing the strategy; we will continue to grow as we growing 14% this quarter and like the first quarter through the direct-to-retail.
It's part of the focus of the strategy of the company to make mortgages to our customers and do a great job of it as oppose to buy closed loans in the secondary market.
And so therefore just the retail side so how much market share you think you can gain on the retail side.
I think you’d probably be around 4% or 5%.
Can we see it materially increase that or that’s probably where you are going to set? We are 4% or 5% of the overall mortgage market.
On the direct-to-retail we are higher than that because you take out the correspondent.
But if you just look at the number of customers that have a mortgage somewhere else there are a lot of customers in our wealth management business or in our preferred business.
The amount of mortgage growth we could have to be very strong and that will continue to build as we focus the sales teams on those efforts.
If you look at the productivity of the mortgage loan officers we hired that worked with our teams and the branches and stuff it is multiples of the productivity of people that are out working in the general fields.
So as that business system continues to take hold and even with the mortgage loan officers today if we can get the loans process we could close 15% 20% 25% more loans per day than we do today.
So we got lots of room to grow in this business but we’re going to do it in a way which is focused on our client with high quality loans because of the economics of business do not support anything else.
Last question is your dispute with Fannie Mae I believe you’re not selling any loans of Fannie Mae you are selling to Freddie Mac which are both really run by the FHFA.
Is the dispute with Fannie Mae at all hindering your ability to sell loans to the GSEs? I think we're growing faster than other people mortgage production on a quarterly basis.
We will go next to the side of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Your line is open.
Thank you just two quick follow ups and I appreciate all the disclosure I just want to make sure I’m trying to compare apples-to-apples.
On the 8.97% that includes all model approval when listening and looking at your disclosure it sounds like excluding model approval it would be maybe 40 basis points lower at my end of the ballpark? I remember it would be slightly more of a reduction than that but still below 100 basis points for IMM Glenn.
Okay perfect.
I know it’s early but in just general gut check.
What should we focus on more with or without as we approach CCAR? In other words again trying to put the whole industry on an apples-to-apples basis? With or without? IMM approval? We are spending an enormant amount of time making sure through the different government channels in the like that we will be in a position as quickly as possible to be IMM compliant obviously nobody has been declared to be IMM compliant yet and I don’t want to speculate on becoming IMM compliant.
I think the important thing is Glenn if you look at the work that we’ve done with respect to Basel 3 and you look at where we are relative to our peers we’re in very good shape and I think the CCAR piece there is two things that you have to be mindful of the first is that last year the state of CCAR results are where your Basel 1 Tier 1 [comment] is probably gets adjusted this year to be Basel 1 and half relative to a 5% reference rate.
That is the CCAR test the way it was done last year and our sense is probably the way that it ends up being done this year.
That's the base test.
The second test is the [glide] path and do you show a path to being where you need to be from a Basel 3 perspective.
And that's why when we talk about capital we are very focused on both of those measures and we feel like we are in very good shape under both Basel 1 and Basel 3 at this point.
I appreciate that.
Just want to make sure I heard what I think I heard.
Some of the mortgages you are originating are putting on balance sheet now obviously good credit the customers because its originated from your channel but when gain on sale margins are at all time highs it feels as an outsider that it would make sense to be selling them in to the market but curious on how you view that in balance sheet versus selling amount? I think what Bruce said is in the third quarter we sold them out.
We are looking at retaining some but it would not be material amount relative to the overall production of our mortgage business.
Okay I appreciate that.
The second things is you got to remember we got a mortgage portfolio runs off on the balance sheet today is $200 billion plus so just to have that stay in place for lack of better term you have to fill it backup.
Unless some wants to pay you a lot of money for it but I hear you.
Finally the focus on earnings growth and loan growth I think you talked effectively at all the price competition.
I am curious if the industry has the potential to be low to sleep in this low rate environment.
So you mentioned that you are getting the same time of spread on new loan origination.
It’s coming out at a lower rate but we are in a excellent credit environment right now but curiously if we were to see it turning the other way if you feel like the industry might be putting on loans that were being low to sleep on spread but the rates actually can get eaten up pretty quickly if there is a turn in credit.
The one thing that we’ve not seen with loans coming is historically when what you are referencing is the loans it’s the structuring of loans and credit quality of loans that you can bring on the balance sheet starting to be impaired in this chase for yield.
The number of people globally that are looking to grow their loan books you have to think globally is less than it's historically been and when we're running the loan books we're very focused on not just growing them but making sure that the pricing returns out from a cost to capital perspective and that the structures continued to have integrity so that if what you just referenced happens that we do not have losses that we're not comfortable living with.
And at this point given what we're seeing in the global competitive market the ability to put loans on that make sense for us and have the structures that protect us we continue to feel very good about.
And when we think about the consumer side even the loans originated in - up to the  standards were changed dramatically in ‘08 in terms of mortgage standards or even card standards in those ’07-’08 and you start to look at loans originated in the latter half of ‘08 and ‘09 and now three years plus later in an environment three years plus later where I think the core environment would have been through and [planning] to be lower than it is now and economic growth to be higher based on what people thought at that time.
We are seeing credit performance which is much better than the expected outcome.
So we're always checking ourselves and the question you raised which is how do we make sure that we drive the business and don’t have credit issues going forward.
What I’ll tell you though is that’s where we want that we continue to frame this thing as how we run the company and focus on the core customer bases and do what they need and not just chasing growth for growth sake and that then will keep us in things like the card business where in the past we may have drifted into credit that was more difficult from doing that and we’re happy with our card business it’s growing strong it’s growing with the right customers with a high credit quality we’re not going to go reach for credit just to grow the business.
Perfect.
I really appreciate it thanks.
And we’ll go next to the site of Vivek Juneja with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi Bruce hi Brian.
Just a couple of quick questions HARP how much did that account for your volume in the third quarter? And……..
The HARP volume was about 30% of the originations.
Okay.
And how long further how far do you think you are in the process and how much longer do you expect to be able to keep doing? I think we’d expect that business to continue through the lion share of 2013.
Okay.
Can you talk about the retail bank a little bit it seems like you are shutting branches but deposits continue to grow can you talk a little bit about what’s going on there where you are getting growth from and the shutting of branches where you are in that rationalization and despite that it seems like you have been able to grow deposits quite a bit? So let’s think about it from all different points which is we need to bring the cost structure down so we’ve been on a plan to continue to close branches and you can see that we did again 50-60 this quarter and we’ll continue to do that we’re doing it carefully.
And as we close those branches the attrition we see is well within and less then we thought will be.
So that's turning out to be good.
So that's where the rate exposure is so we are getting what we want.
We are keeping the customers and that for less operating cost and that's a program that we’ll continue carefully across and then each quarter will be a continuing progress.
When you look at the core business the things like the Durban were in last years third quarter not this year third quarter.
So you are starting to see the run rate come out of the post of all the regulatory changes in revenue sort of linked quarter stabilizing given the changes in fees that have been behind us now for several quarters.
Cap growth [continues] net new accounts.
This mobile implementation were $11.1 million 800 000 to subscribes this quarter we are 1 million plus more then anybody else.
But the good news is the cost impact of that or the service impact of that is since we’re allowing you to take a snap shot you checked with almost [1.75 million] checks we’ve gone through in literally a couple of months of operations on that in the third quarter.
The payments made out for that platform are now running $1 billion plus a week and we’ll probably do $60 billion of payments through that platforms this year we have already done 40 some billion or [non-30].
And then the more important part is that's all cost optimization service optimization and our customer scores continue to increase each month we see our satisfaction score we continue see an increase.
But importantly in the growth areas in the preferred segment we continue to see strong growth there.
We added about 500 000 plus clients from retail to preferred in other words upgrade and through depth of relationship which means we are bringing more than $50 000 in balances to it.
So we are quite please that business the Merrill lynch growth and so I think its working and its working in a balance between getting the cost down on the retail side expanding in preferred side and then also managing the customer experience in the middle.
Our next is from the side of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Your line is open.
It’s encouraging certainly that you guys highlighted LAS expenses could come down next quarter but is there a way to give us some magnitude so we can know how to model this.
It’s definitely no the same question (inaudible).
The best way is you are looking to model is in the third quarter we staffed to solve or doing everything from a change in regulation compliance as well as our own standards that we wanted to as it relates to how we both service as well as modify mortgages.
There was incremental work that was done in the third quarter to get to that point.
The best way to start and to go through the analysis is to look at the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans that we have because those without question require the most amount of work.
Given where we are now what we would expect going forward is that you would see the expenses trend down at the same rate that you see the 60 plus day delinquencies come down realizing it's going to be lagged by one and probably two quarters.
That’s the best way to get a proxy for the manner in which you should see those expenses come down.
As Brian said anything unexpected that comes up from an expense perspective.
There are two things.
We got to make sure we do this right and that’s why we had to build the staffing to make sure that we do the modification on a timely basis and then secondly getting in quarter-to-quarter as you can see we're trying to guide you to long term but the key thing is we are doing everything we can as the world comes down to get the resources down at the same pace.
So it is something we’re absolutely focused on and we’ll deliver it for you but we just have to make sure we do the work right handle the customers right it is a very difficult time for people to go through what’s going on because all of these costs go to the modification short sale (inaudible) How much of that decline in 60 day delinquencies was due to modified loans and what’s the [redefault] risk there? Overall we’ll get you some detail on that but just conceptually each vintage of modifications perform better.
So we’ve gone from levels of what have been after maybe year’s worth of modification back from ’08 and ’09 and ’08.
We’ve been at this as long as people remember that we were running 50 and now we’re running them in the 20 low 20s or high teens.
So the redefault rate has gone way down because the structure of the programs and frankly the duration time after the crisis.
Okay.
Just to make sure I understood Brian I think you had said that as far as the trajectory of the decline in expenses overall when you’re looking at the entire thing at OAS taking a step back moderate improvements in 2013 but the big lever there is 2014.
Is that right or are we reading too much in to it? No I think I was saying that you’ll get the improvement sort of on a quarterly basis all though ’13 and in ’14 you’ll have the run rate of all that accumulated and for you in year-over-year comparisons but it’s going to come all during ’13.
We can debate about moderate when we are that [expense base].
The other question was discussing but it will come every single quarters so it’s not going to be held up and wait it’ll come as fast as it can.
So the word we’re getting out this quarter has to do with the clients and the 60 plus day in the second quarter into the third quarter came out in the third and the third quarter comes out in the fourth it will take just little time because you actually have to finish the work reassign accounts and go on.
So it will come it’s not in quarter-by-quarter it will come month-by-month week-by-week all to the ‘13.
And your number of modifications during the quarter was 40 000.
Operator one final question.
Absolutely sir we’ll take that final question from the site of Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Your line is open.
Okay can you guys just remind us what your litigation cost were roughly per year recycle? We’ll probably get back to that.
I don’t know (inaudible).
Was a long time ago.
That seems like long time ago.
I just want to zero in a one line item which is on page four the supplement (inaudible) being as other income I heard you say something about that they were from 600 million positive to 790 negative.
Was some of that FBR or DVA or is that all in the [three account] here? At the FVO switch and other income was roughly it was 1.2 billion delta during the quarter.
So that’s it.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Welcome to today’s program.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take questions in turn during our Q&amp;A session.
Please note today’s call is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Kevin Stitt.
Please begin sir.
Good morning.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
For additional factors please see our press release and SEC documents.
And with that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Kevin and thank all of you for joining us on a busy day.
In 2012 we laid out our four focused areas for the year: capital managing our risks reducing costs and driving our core business growth.
In each area we achieved strong results this year and we’re carrying that momentum forward as we look into 2013.
Let’s start on page four of our presentation.
We positioned our company with a strong balance sheet this year.
Estimated capital ratios now are above current Basel III requirements and we’ve seen improving credit quality.
And as you know we’ve addressed many legacy issues that Bruce will talk about later.
As a result (inaudible) of the company the team has driving all year to now showing through more clearly as we look forward.
We positioned our company to driving our core customer relationship strategy.
That strategy continues to accelerate our growth by simply helping those people we serve with the financial advice.
We positioned our company by reducing costs making our operations leaner and more efficient and investing in our growth initiatives at the same time.
We continue to streamline our businesses.
We focus it on the three customer groups that we talk about on each call people companies institutional investors.
But on page five we highlight some of the progress we made in the last quarter and last year.
On the consumer side our deposits continue to grow.
Our retail mortgage production has increased by an average of 10% per quarter over the past three quarters.
The pipeline today remains as strong as it was at the end of the third quarter.
As you know we continue to optimize our service network our branch network as online and mobile banking numbers continue to increase.
We’re now averaging about 10 000 new mobile subscribers a day.
In our preferred client area the growth this year has been strong.
Even today our brokerage assets in Merrill Edge were up 40% from a year ago.<br> Moving to our wealth management business U.S.
trust and Merrill Lynch those businesses had strong loan deposit strong revenue growth this year and earnings and pretax margin were also at record levels.
As we think about the companies the corporations and middle market companies we serve across the country and around the world our loan growth continues to expand particularly in the second half of 2012.
Global banking and let loans of $288 billion up from $265 billion at the end of June.
Investment banking fees for these clients are strong.
We maintain our number two market position.
In the fourth quarter we had a leadership position in debt underwriting.
As we move to our global markets business which serves institutional investors our research capabilities continue to be recognized as the best in the world for a second straight year.
As we look at 2012 sales and trading revenue did well in a relatively difficult environment.
In 2012 our trading revenues were up 20% from 2011 excluding the impacts of the DDA.
And we did that while we reduced the cost in this business by over 10%.
So thinking about it and looking across every customer group we serve you can see our strategy that we put in place continues to drive results.
We continue to fine tune the strong core franchise focusing on those industry leading capabilities we have to serve our clients and customers in every area.
While we are doing that we continue to work on expenses.
Bruce is going to take you through the highlights in a few pages.
But if you think about it from the top we reduced our delinquent mortgage count which allows us to reduce our LAS expenses.
We reduced our employee in each quarter in the last five and we’ve done that while we continue to invest in our targeted growth areas.
Our strategies continue to work we’re seeing growth across all the core businesses.
We’re seeing that momentum continue to accelerate.
So as we look forward to 2013 we’re going to continue to drive this strategy and drive revenues of our company.
Thank you.
And I’ll turn it over to Bruce to take through the results in detail.
Great.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I am going to start on slide six.
As you all saw this morning we reported net income for the quarter of $732 million or $0.03 a share for the quarter.
I want to spend a moment on the previously announced items in the geography on the income statement so that you can better under the quarter.
Reported revenues net of interest expense were $18.9 billion during the quarter.
If you look in the bottom left hand corner of the slide you can see our revenues were negatively impacted by five items totaling approximately $3.7 billion.
Those items included a $2.5 billion charge for reps and warranties with respect to the Fannie Mae settlement approximately $0.5 billion related to the clarification of our obligations under mortgage rescissions negative DVA and FVO of approximately $700 million relating to the significant tightening of our credit spreads that we saw during the quarter and then a positive $700 million between change in the MSR valuation related to the servicing sales as well as our sale in our Japan joint venture.
If we move to the right on the expense side our expenses were negatively impacted by approximately $2.3 billion due to our previously announced independent foreclosure review acceleration agreement as well as approximately $900 million of litigation expense and $300 million of compensatory fees.
In addition during the quarter we did have a positive net tax adjustment primarily related to tax credits that are associated with certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries.
We turn to slide seven a lot of numbers I’d like to draw your attention to three line items.
The first deposits were $42 billion or 4% from the end of the third quarter to the end of the fourth quarter.
During the fourth quarter we reduced our long-term debt footprint by approximately $11 billion but more significantly during all of 2012 our debt footprint came down by almost $100 billion or 26%.
We accomplish that reduction in our debt footprint while our overall liquidity sources remained in the range of $370 billion to $380 billion.
Turning to slide eight and looking at Basel 1 capital.
Basel 1 capital declined during the quarter to a still very strong 11.06%.
The decline was the result of our pretax loss as well as approximately $500 million of common and preferred stock dividends.
In addition during the quarter our risk-weighted assets grew by approximately $10 billion.
It is the strong growth that we saw in the investment and corporate bank more than offset the reductions in the consumer business.
We turn to slide nine.
Like to spend a few minutes on Basel 3 capital.
We estimate that our Tier 1 common capital under Basel 3 on a fully phased-in basis would have been 9.25% at the end of the year.
Our estimate once again assumes approval of all models with the exception of the change in the comprehensive risk measure for CRM after one year under the U.S.
Basel 3 NPRs.
This 9.25% is a 28 basis point improvement over our estimate of 8.97% at the end of the third quarter of this year.
While our Tier 1 common capital declined as a result of the pretax loss lower OCI and higher threshold deductions.
This was more than offset by a reduction in our risk-weighted assets.
Driving the RW decline during the quarter were lower exposures particularly in consumer real estate and market risk improved credit quality and update of our recent loss experience in our models.
We estimate that our Tier 1 common capital at the end of the quarter was $128.6 billion while our risk-weighted assets were approximately $1.4 trillion under Basel 3.
As you all know Basel 3 ratios are more sensitive to changes in credit quality portfolio composition interest rates as well as earnings performance.
We turn to slide 10 and look at funding and liquidity.
Our global excess liquidity sources were $372 billion at the end of the fourth quarter down $8 billion from the prior quarter driven by a reduction of our long-term debt footprint of approximately $11 billion during the quarter.
During the fourth quarter we redeemed $5.3 billion of TRUPs in other long-term debt.
You may have seen last week we raised approximately $6 billion in the aggregate for $350 million in 10-year notes to take advantage of strong investor demand.
As we look forward though we do expect to continue to see long-term debt decline primarily through maturities consistent with our overall goal of optimizing the cost associated with both our debt and capital.
As we do so we expect that our time to require funding will consistently remain above two years coverage and that metric at the end of 2012 was at 33 months.
On slide 11 net interest income we reported an increase in net interest income from $10.2 billion in the third quarter to $10.6 billion in the fourth and an improvement in our net interest margin of about three basis points to 2.35%.
As we consider that number we benefitted during the quarter from less negative impact of market related premium amortization expense.
We continue to benefit from the shrinkage in our long-term debt footprint as well as improved trading related net interest income.
Partially offsetting those benefits were lower asset yield as well as lower consumer loan balances.
If you just forget the market relating items that I just referred to we’re in line with the estimated range of net interest income $10.5 billion before market related impacts we’ve discussed our past earnings announcements.
Given long end rate levels at the end of December we estimate the quarterly net interest income may come in around a base of $10.5 billion plus or minus for FAS 91 and day count for the next several quarters.
The impact of our liability management -- liability management actions and long-term debt maturities are expected to help offset headwinds from continued pressure on consumer loan balances as well as the overall low rate environment.
On slide 12 we highlight the results of our consumer and business banking.
Earnings were $1.4 billion for the quarter an increase of $143 million or 11% from the third quarter driven by higher revenue more than offsetting higher non-interest expense.
Service charges were lower due in part to our actions that we took around hurricane Sandy to further support our customers in the region.
Average deposits increased more than $6 billion or 1.3% from the third quarter.
On slide 13 we list some of the key indicators for our consumer and business banking for the quarter.
In our deposits business the average rate paid on deposits declined 3 basis points during the quarter to 17 basis points.
Our mobile banking customer base reached 12 million which is an 8% increase from the prior quarter and up 31% from a year ago.
We reduced banking centers as we continued to optimize the delivery network around customer behaviors.
Credit card purchase volumes for active account increased 7% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
The U.S.
credit card loss rate is at its lowest level since 2006 while the 30 plus day delinquency rate is at a historic low.
On slide 14 and before we get into legacy assets and servicing we summarized the specific mortgage items that we announced on January 7 including our settlements with Fannie Mae sales of mortgage servicing rights and the acceleration agreement on the IFR.
During the quarter these items had a negative pretax income on fourth quarter LAS revenue of $2.6 billion and the expense category of $2 million resulting in an aggregate net income impact of $2.9 billion in LAS within our consumer real estate services segment.
If we turn to slide 15 now we break out the two businesses within CRES home loans and LAS.
Home loans reported an increase in net income to $281 million while LAS reported a net loss of $4 billion including the approximately $2.9 billion of items I just highlighted.
As you’re aware the home loans business is responsible for first lien and home equity originations within CRES.
First mortgage retail originations of $21.5 billion were up 6% from the third quarter driven by refinancings and up 42% compared with retail originations of approximately $15 billion in the prior year ago quarter.
You can see the same type of trend in our core production income which is up from the third quarter and almost doubled results from a year ago.
As you know we exited the correspondent business in late 2011 so correspondent its originations are nonexistent versus volumes of approximately $6.5 billion a year ago.
The MSR assets within LAS ended the quarter at $5.7 billion up $629 million from the end of the third quarter due in part to the valuation adjustments previously discussed related to the sale of MSRs.
MSR hedge results during the quarter were positive and we ended the period with the MSR rate at 55 basis points versus 45 basis points in the third quarter and 54 basis points one year ago.
If we turn to slide 16 we showed the comparisons of certain metrics in legacy assets and servicing on a linked-quarter basis as well as compared to fourth quarter a year ago to reflect the work done to reduce delinquent loans and find homeowners solutions.
As you recall legacy assets and servicing reflects all of our servicing operations and the results of our MSR activities.
Total staffing in the quarter including contractors and offshore decreased approximately 9 000 from the third quarter.
The number of first-lien loan serviced drop 7% in the quarter while the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans dropped 17% to 773 000 units.
We expect this drop in 60 day plus delinquencies should have a positive impact on our staffing levels and servicing costs going forward as we were fully staffed in the second half of last year to handle the various new programs and regulations.
We referenced our January 7th announcement of agreement to sell MSRs totalling $360 excuse me $306 billion aggregate unpaid principal balance.
This represents $2 million loans of which $232 000 are 60 plus day delinquent.
To transfer these servicing rights are scheduled to occur in stages over the course of 2013 with the delinquent loans schedule to be transferred after the current loans.
Currently we recognized approximately $200 million in servicing fees for quarter associated with these loans which is expected to decrease throughout the year as we actually transfer the servicing.
However the impact on earnings from lower revenue is expected to be negligible for the year as we expect expenses to also decrease as we transfer the servicing especially the 60 plus day delinquent loans.
We believe our service 60 plus day delinquent loans at the end of 2013 maybe around 400 000 units versus 773 000 units at the end of 2012 a decrease of approximately 50%.
That implies an additional decrease of 150 000 units beyond the 232 000 units that are expected to go with the scheduled transfer.
Given the projected declines in 60 plus day delinquent loans and notwithstanding there being a one to two quarter lag between delinquent loan transfers and expense decrease we believe we can get expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013 down by more than $1 billion from the $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012 excluding the impact of IFR and litigation.
On slide 17 we show outstanding claims at the end of December but as you know a significant portion of GSE claims has been addressed in our settlement with Fannie Mae.
If we exclude the rep and warrant amounts addressed in this settlement of $12.2 billion from GSE outstanding claims of $13.5 billion pro forma outstanding GSE claims would have been $1.3 billion at the end of the year.
Total outstanding claims on a pro forma basis would then be $16.1 billion.
Remember that the table reflects unpaid principal amounts versus the actual losses projected on the loans.
Outstanding claims in the quarter from private-label counterparties increased approximately $1.7 billion from the end of September.
In an anticipated increase in our aggregate non-GSE claims was taken into consideration when we developed our reserves at the time of the BoNY Settlement and we continue to review our assumptions on a quarterly basis.
Unresolved claims with monolines remain static as much of our activity with the monolines revolves around litigation issues.
Reserves for representations and warranties at the end of the quarter increased to $19 billion of which $8.5 billion is associated with the BoNY Settlement and approximately $6 billion is associated with the GACs.
We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for both GAC and non-GAC representations and warranty exposures could be up to $4 billion over accruals at December 31 compared to up to $6 billion over accruals at September 30.
This decrease is the result of our settlement with Fannie Mae and the range of possible loss now principally covers non-GAC exposures.
On slide 18 in global wealth and investment management earnings for the quarter of $578 million were up slightly from record results in the third quarter.
The pretax margin was 21%.
This quarter we did move two businesses that we agreed to sell international wealth management and our brokerage joint venture in Japan to the all other segment including the results in past quarters for comparability.
Overall client activity in the wealth management business in the quarter across all categories was quite robust and was aided by client actions due to the fiscal cliff.
Period end deposit growth of approximately $23 billion and period end loan growth of $3.5 billion helped to offset the impact of the continued low rate environment.
Ending loan balances were at record levels and long-term AUM flows of $9.1 billion were the second highest quarterly amount since the Merrill merger and the 14th consecutive positive quarter.
Net income of $1.4 billion in global banking on slide 19 is an increase of more than 10% from the third quarter and reflects higher revenue and lower expenses.
Average loans and leases increased $10.8 billion or 4% from the third-quarter with growth across C&amp;I as well as commercial real estate.
Average deposit balances increased $15.8 billion or 6% from the third quarter to $268 billion as our customer base continued to be very liquid.
Asset quality continued to improve from prior quarters as we’ve seen over the last year NPAs dropped 20% to $2.1 billion and reservable utilized credit size exposure declined 11%.
On slide 20 we outline our investment banking fees for the quarter.
You can see that our debt underwriting area was about $213 million from the third-quarter to $1.078 billion in revenues and our advisory business was up approximately $80 million to $301 million for the quarter.
Corporation wide investment banking fees were up 20% from the third quarter and 58% from the year ago period.
Debt underwriting fees were a record for the quarter and we believe number one on a global basis during the quarter.
From an overall investment fee perspective we maintained our number two global ranking in net investment banking fees during 2012 based on Dealogic’s data.
Switching to global markets on slide 21 earnings excluding DVA were $326 million.
Excluding DVA in the UK corporate tax charge in the third quarter net income decreased compared to the third quarter driven by lower sales and trading revenue reflecting a seasonally slower fourth quarter.
Sales and trading revenue excluding DVA was down 23% from the third quarter but improved substantially from levels a year ago.
Within our fixed area excluding DVA revenues of $1.8 billion decreased from $2.5 billion in the quarter primarily as a result of lower volumes and reduced client activity but were up $1.3 billion or 37% from a year ago.
In equity excluding DVA results were flat with the third quarter as lower volatility and continuing lack of investor appetite for equity products kept volumes suppressed.
Expenses declined from both the third quarter and the prior year primarily driven by lower personnel expense.
On slide 22 we’ve shown you the results of all other which includes our global principal investments business the non-U.S.
consumer card business our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management international wealth management business we agreed to sell insurance as well as our discontinued real estate portfolio.
The revenue improvement in all other from the third quarter was mainly due to a lower negative valuation adjustment on structured liabilities under fair value option of $442 million compared to a negative $1.3 billion in the third quarter and higher equity investment income as a result of the sale of our brokerage joint venture in Japan.
Non-interest expense declined compared to the third quarter due to lower litigation costs as the third quarter included the Merrill Lynch class action settlement.
Also contributing to net income in the quarter was the foreign tax credit benefit that I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation.
As you can see on slide 23 total expenses increased compared to the third quarter but were down from a year ago.
Excluding LAS expenses the independent foreclosure review and litigation expenses in the quarter were $13.3 billion versus $12.9 billion in the third quarter and $14.7 billion a year ago.
The $400 million increase from the third quarter reflects the normal seasonal trend and represented non-personnel costs.
FTE at the end of the quarter was down approximately 5000 from the third quarter and 15 000 from a year ago.
An important driver behind the reduction of $1.4 billion in expenses from fourth quarter a year ago is new BAC which we have discussed with you several times.
If you remember total annual cost savings targeted with new BAC are $8 billion per year or $2 billion on a quarterly basis which we said we would hit sometime in mid-2015.
In the fourth quarter we achieved approximately $900 million of the $2 billion which is 45% of our target.
As a reminder the first quarter every year include the annual retirement eligible stock compensation which was $900 million in the first quarter of 2012 and this year we expect will be a similar amount plus or minus.
While we’re talking about expenses let me comment on taxes.
Tax expense for the quarter was a benefit of $2.6 billion consisting of the expected tax benefit of the pretax loss our recurring tax preference items and the $1.3 billion primarily related to the non-U.S.
restructurings.
For 2013 we estimate the effective tax rate to be somewhere around 30% including $800 million or so for another expected 2% U.K.
tax rate reduction which we would expect in the third quarter.
We switch to overall credit quality on slide 24.
Provision was $2.2 billion versus $1.8 billion in the third quarter as lower charge-offs were more than offset by lower release.
Overall credit quality trends continue to be positive even when we normalize for the events in the third quarter.
If you recall regulators provided new guidance to the industry in the third quarter of this year around loans discharged as part of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy which resulted in increased net charge-offs of $478 million in the third quarter.
In addition we incurred charge-offs of $435 million in the third quarter in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement.
We do not have impacts to net charge-offs of a similar magnitude in the fourth quarter but did have $73 million related to the completion of the implementation of the regulatory guidance.
Excluding these items net charge-offs were down $178 million or 6%.
We believe most portfolios are close to stabilization and overall reserve reductions are expected to continue but at reduced levels.
Given our outlook for slow growth but healthy economy we believe provision expense in 2013 will range between $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion per quarter the levels experienced between the second and fourth quarters of 2012.
Excluding the fully insured portfolio 30 plus day performing delinquencies continued to drop.
NPAs were down $1.4 billion from the third quarter and $4.2 billion from a year ago.
On the commercial side reservable criticized levels showed a decline of 8% from the third quarter and 42% from a year ago.
Before we open up for questions let me say and reiterate Brian’s comments that we feel very good about our accomplishments in 2012.
We improved the balance sheet we managed risks and we addressed significantly -- significant legacy issues and were successful in reducing certain of our exposures.
We stepped up our focus on growing the business and some of that focus is evident this quarter when you look at deposit growth across the franchise loan growth in the global bank solid investment banking results and in GUM strong deposit AUM and loan flows.
We entered 2013 all about moving the ball forward and winning in the marketplace with what we think is the best banking franchise in the world.
And with that let me go ahead and open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from the side of Matt O’Connor from Deutsche Bank.
A couple of follow-ups I guess starting on the expenses appreciate the outlook on legacy costs.
As we think about sort of the all other expenses that you pointed to of $13.3 billion with some seasonal stuff this quarter.
Maybe you could just frame what we can expect for that level or for that bucket for 2013.
You’re saying expenses not including LAS and litigation.
Exactly.
Yeah the 13.3 billion that you pointed to in the fourth quarter.
I think as you look at that number and if we keep LAS out of this obviously that the big new savings bucket that we have is new BAC.
We’d indicated that we are on a quarterly basis at $900 million a quarter.
As we leave 2012 we expected that our new BAC cost savings when we get to the fourth quarter of ‘13 will be at $1.5 billion per quarter.
So you could expect to see on a core basis of new BAC of about $600 million increase from where we leave 2012 to where we leave 2013.
So as we think about that $13.3 billion I guess if we just take out $600 million for new BAC but was there other bulk or how much I guess of the seasonal stuff is there that you may wish to adjust for?<br> But the seasonal stuff that you’re going Q4 to Q4 you’d expect the seasonal stuff to be there but as we indicated we looked at and for this quarter relative to the third quarter there was $300 million to $400 million of stuff that we would characterize as seasonal.<br> And just in terms of like underlying call it inflation or just normal investments if we take that 13.3 4Q to 4Q would you expect that to be down so you have kind of minus $600 million from additional BAC savings? I know there are always some offsets from inflation or investments do you think that net number will be down?<br> We would expect that -- the one thing that we’re being very cognizant of is that while we’re investing in the business we’re not going to let inflation out-run the progress that we’re working on new BAC.
So if you think on a net basis thinking about that $600 million from new BAC is a good assumption.<br> And then separately if we look at the fixed revenue little weaker than maybe we’ve seen so far although it’s still early in the earnings process this year.
And I guess I noticed that the asset level in the trading book went up the VaR doubled quarter to quarter and just wondering if there is anything unusual in terms of positioning or that you point to?  I think it’s important when you look at the fixed business to go back and look at the progress that we’ve made during 2012.
If you look at fixed revenues 2012 compared to 2011 pre-DVA they were up 36% year-over-year.
If you go back and look at each of our quarterly releases in 2012 in each quarter 2012 pre-DVA revenues were higher than 2011 at the same that we were taking costs out.
The third thing I would say is that you’ve to realize that we run the fixed in overall debt underwriting business and look at that as one consolidated business and from a debt underwriting perspective at over $1 billion of revenue we believe that was as I indicated earlier more than anyone else did this quarter on a global basis.
And so we feel very good about that.
You point on the VaR is a fair one and we did see VaR increased during the fourth quarter and we would expect to see the benefits of that VaR flow through during the first quarter this year.
Sorry benefits meaning higher revenue? That’s correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
We’ll go next site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi.
Bruce does the goal of reducing the delinquents in LAS the 150 000? Does that include planned -- additional planned MSR sales that you might have in mind? It does not John because I think the one thing when we announced these sales but you have to realize is that it’s very important that the transition of the loans that are being sold work through a process in going away that as consumer friendly as we can do it.
So there is a lot of work that goes through that.
So as we look at the servicing business that does not include in any meaningful way incremental sales there maybe some small ones or above that.
And at the same time somebody could come and look to do something as well but at this point I would consider that 150 to be more organic reduction.
Okay.
And what kind of pace throughout the year would you expect for reducing that $3.1 LAS expense by your goal of $1 billion by the fourth quarter kind of steady throughout the year or is it lumpy? I would assume that you should generally expect it to come out throughout the year.
It’s not something you’re going to have to wait for the fourth quarter to say.
Okay.
And then getting to Matt’s question earlier if we just -- a lot of moving parts on your expenses if we look top of the house trying to think about the jumping off point for total BAC expenses you start the first quarter it seems like you might be in the $17 billion ballpark with the stock option expense? Does that feel like the right area? Yeah.
I’m hesitant John to give you specific numbers in the quarter.
What I would say is that we gave you guidance is to how much of the fourth quarter with seasonal that we obviously wouldn’t expect in the first quarter.
You’ve got the 900 of stock compensation expense that will come through expect to see a little bit of benefit in the first quarter as we continue to implement new BAC and probably the biggest variable that you could see in the first quarter that I didn’t mention is really compensation expense that varies based on actual business performance.
But I think if you think and look at those different metrics you get pretty close.
Okay.
And then with the Fannie settlement this quarter how should we think about the rep and warrant provisioning going forward here will you need to add on a quarterly basis to the rep and warrant provision? Yeah.
I mean if you look back over course of 2012 absent any settlements or any unusual activity you had a run rate throughout the quarter of around $300 million per quarter in 2012.
And with the Fannie settlement as well as obviously the fact that Freddie was settled at Countrywide you’d expect that number to be $150 million or so going forward.
Okay.
And then one last thing on NII was that a pretty clean number was there any impact from hedging or premium amortization in the NII number this quarter? There was a less than $100 million to the negative.
Okay.
And your guidance of the kind of $10.5 billion is the run rate you think for the next couple of quarters that’s excluding any of that right? Excluding any of that and realize that we’ve got a couple less days in the first quarter of this year.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you John.
We’ll go next site of Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thank you very much.
Hey guys on your guidance for NII which was really good.
You talked about a steady I mean you can maintain that 3 -- that net interest margin at current levels.
What about average earning assets? Are you -- do you think you can maintain your average earning assets at these levels or grow them? Well I think the average earning asset levels that you probably at a level that you’re not going to see an enormous amount of growth.
What we do hope that happens though is that the composition of those earning assets change so that we can look at and particularly in the institutional business that I mentioned as well as in GWIM there was very strong loan growth during the fourth quarter.
We are focused on continuing to drive that forward and that obviously reduces the need to invest in securities and other thing and we think ultimately has a positive impact on NII and is also quite frankly consistent with managing OCI risk going forward.<br>  And then I had to ask one mortgage question.
I asked the same question in the third quarter but I think Brian you’ve been out in a lot of interviews talking about how much you like mortgage banking.
But you’re still really going to be focused on retail am I correct? And on retail are we focusing just your own customers or are we being focusing on customers outside of your deposit mix or your customer base?  Paul focusing it on the customers in our customer base is not real restricted into one or two household.
There is plenty of market share to go.
Our penetration of the product to -- in our preferred segment and our wealth management segment is still relatively low.
So there is tremendous growth.
But as you think about shape in the mortgage business we’re kind of -- this quarter kind of moves -- starts moving announcing as we closed these servicing sales to where we end up maybe 5 million surplus loans going forward producing $20 billion and growing our core direct to retail and that’s kind of what we want with the market share that steadily grows and that’s kind of the equilibrium and the same as we go.
So the next challenge ahead is obviously while replacing the hard volumes over the next year this year we had to replace the core fund of volume next year we have to replace the hard volumes.
The team is working diligently on that.
It is really focused on the core customers and if you think about the cost of servicing mortgages and stuff we need to really focus on people that we’re very comfortable with credit and keep the delinquencies down and stay away from the stray products and just stay on volume.
We’ll go next to the site of Glenn Schorr from Nomura.
First one is a question on risk weighted assets on one of your slides you show Basel I assets going actually up a little in the quarter Basel III coming down it’s all in the net change in credit and other risk weighted assets.
I am just curious what do you see on the credit side that drives that model enhancement.
The reason I ask is it makes sense intuitively it’s just different to the tune of half the Basel I and Basel III jump it’s different versus all the other big banks.
It’s a good question Glenn.
When you look at and let’s just first spend a minute on Basel I.
As I think you know that the majority of regular rate loans in Basel I are 100% risk weighted so that as you look at our $10 billion increase in risk weighted assets under Basel I it’s just generally speaking the net increase in our loan book.
If you go to Basel III and I think you’re referring to slide 9 where we talk about the different reductions why don’t I spend a moment on each of the buckets.
The first is that we referenced that we had about $23 billion less through consumer real estate exposures and the way the Basel III works is that as opposed to these general risk weighted buckets they look at loan to value delinquency and other type metrics.
So during the quarter the $23 billion benefit we saw we saw declines in the loan to value within our residential mortgage book the percentage of loans that were 90 plus day delinquencies each of those went down which I think in large part is reflective of the changes in the underwriting standards that we’ve talked about before that we implemented in the fourth quarter of ‘08 and first quarter of ‘09.
The second thing is if you look at our home equity book the delinquencies as well as the loan to value continued to improve there as well as the notional amount outstanding has also gone down so we benefit there as well.
And then the third bucket within consumer real estate are other retail exposures which generally represent the run-off portfolio that we talked about that decreased during the quarter as well.
So those three different buckets within the consumer exposure are what drove the $23 billion decline there.
If you move to the $64 billion number that we referenced largely in market risk really go through a couple different areas where we had benefits.
The first is we did have a pretty significant decline on a net basis of CBA stress VaR as well as our CRM risk weighted assets during the quarter.
Over and above that as you know that some of the securitization products cover very or have very high risk weighed asset content.
We were able to incur -- fairly significantly decrease some of those securitization exposures.
And during the quarter the industry also got some guidance from a regulatory perspective on risk-weighted assets with certain securitization products that was favorable so that helped.
And then the last piece that we had is that there were some index tranches and other things within the markets business which came down pretty significantly as well.
So those were really the big items in the $64 billion bucket and then with respect to the $23 billion bucket.
I want to spend just a moment on that because the $23 billion reduction is not a function of going in and changing models the $23 billion is that each year when you update your models for actual loss experience it drives changes in risk-weighted assets and given the strength and improvement across the credit portfolios in 2012 we benefited from that when the models were updated.
As you look forward I would just say looking forward I think we’re generally in a place now where we told you a couple quarters ago the optimization on Basel 1 was largely done and the risk-weighted assets would vary pretty proportionately with the amount of loans.
From a pure risk-weighted asset perspective I think we’re largely through those reductions but keep in mind from a numerator or a common perspective going forward we will benefit given our deferred tax position in that pretax number will generally grow capital on a pretax basis.
And we still do have some threshold deductions we can work down there.
That’s super helpful.
I think you just said but I just want to confirm this happens on an annual basis in other words whether the balance has come down on paydown runoff charge-off whatever or credit improves the models get updated on annual basis and there is no permission process in another words just happens in real time? Well there is not a permission aspect to it.
It’s required that we update these on an annual basis.
So that’s correct Glenn.
Okay.
Really appreciate.
Glenn the balances move every quarter.
I think it’s the models -- the factors that change on risk.
That’s super helpful.
I appreciate all of that.
Inside the average balance sheet the securities yield went up 11 basis points in the quarter.
Most banks are trending lower as things runoff.
This is part of your depending the NIM so I get it.
Just curious is it just expanding a little bit on the duration curve.
Just curious what you’re doing on the asset side to help support those yields? No it’s not extending duration.
If you look at our securities portfolio we continue to run that duration in and around two years.
What you have to keep in mind is that we had during the third quarter you had some of the FAS 91 amortization expense.
That flows through it and hits the yield on the securities portfolio.
So we did not see a significant change in the actual yields during the quarter it’s really more FAS 91.
And I think as you look at our company going forward I think we’re a little bit different in that between the fact that the duration of what we have continues to be short.
As we look forward we clearly think the worst of the recouponing of the securities portfolios behind us based on where rates are to that.
Okay.
Thanks Bruce.
Appreciate it.
We go next to site of Ed Najarian from ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
You know with the capital ratios up significantly and credit quality getting better the mortgage repurchase risk getting resolved over time.
Could you give us any thoughts in terms of how you’re thinking about capital return for 2013? We’ve had a number of the other big banks JPMorgan Wells USB.
At least give us some insight in terms of how they’re thinking about capital return for this year going into the C-Cor wondered if you’d be willing to do the same? Thanks.
I think I’d say that that we completed our results.
We’re in a better position this year than last year and we’ll let you know once we get through the test.
I think it’s -- the Fed is doing it’s work and -- but we’ve included people that -- here the issue for us is not necessary capital levels balance sheet cleanup and stuff it is the issues of occurring earnings levels consistent on that and we’ll let you know once we get there.
But Bruce and the team have done a great job on submitting it and we will see what happens.
I think you already above the capital ratios that you need to be at always according to FASB guidelines now that you are generating -- continue to generate excess capital is that something that you think you’d like to return to shareholders over time? Or is that something that needs to be retained in the near term for safety and soundness reasons until you get more litigation resolved? Or any thoughts in terms of the excess above and beyond where you have indicated you sort of intend to run the company?  If you look at what we did in 2012 we took capital and redeemed preferred instruments and subordinated debt and other things and continued to do that during the year we’d be getting approval to do so as we went along.
So we’ve been clear to all the capital that we have now that we’re above the levels we will be in a position when we get the approvals to return to the shareholders.
And there will be points of the relative preferences of the CCAR process in terms of dividends versus stock buybacks and things like that.
So we would be no different than anybody else.
But it’s clear it’s either on the balance sheet tangible book value it’s not needed for the risk of the balance sheet as you can see that with all the risk weighting and everything there capital is there.
And all get returned as part of the business proposition.
If we retain and need to grow that’s actually a good problem and I did but so far we have -- still have optimization left in the balance sheet as Bruce described that will allow to return capital.
Our intention is that -- the question is we’ve got to get to the process and then we will do it.
And then I guess my second question is just fairly technical.
But when I look at your -- what you’ve outlined in terms of reserve recapture it looks like about $900 million in terms of loan loss reserve a $2.2 billion provision and $3.1 billion charge-offs.
But it looks like the loan loss reserve itself dropped by about $2 billion from the third quarter.
Can you reconcile that for me?<br> Yeah the reason is it dropped by that amount is that and you saw it in the third as well as the fourth quarter that some of the DOJ AG settlement modification and other things that is as you dispose get repaid or write off the purchase credit impaired portfolio it reduces your loan loss reserve.
And then that’s not coming through the charge-off line?  That’s correct.
We’ll go next to the site of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
So a quick one following up actually on one of Ed’s questions.
And it’s related to your capital levels and the SIFI buffer.
Is there any view from your guys’ perspective that you will intend to run with a buffer above the required 8.5% because many of your money center competitors are going to be running at the 9.5% level.
So maybe either for funding market reasons or potentially competitive reasons is it in your mindset or strategic vision that you might run a bit above that 8.5% level or is that the wrong way to think about it?  I’d make a couple of observations on that.
The first is that at 9.25% today regardless of required SIFI buffers we have more on the Basel III basis than anyone else.
The second thing I would say is that given the position that we are in in fact we do have on PTAs going forward the rate at which we accrue capital given that it’s on a pre-tax basis we would expect to be more significant than our peers.
So I think going forward we still think we have the opportunity as core earnings rebound grow capital more quickly than our peers.
As it relates to the exact level we’ve always looked at and thought that you would want to run at least an extra 50 basis point cushion given that these ratios are more sensitive to changes in the market depending on what the market looks like at the time your ratio.
You may vary that a little bit based on the market but I would say generally if we look at the -- what we saw in the third quarter what we saw today that we’re generally in the range of where you expect us to run.
And as we look out at and see how our counterparties from a credit perspective view the company now and look at our credit spreads we feel like we’re doing the right things right now.
Yeah.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then thinking about maybe the fact that you guys might be in the market to sell another chunk of MSRs at least we hear about that through speculation from various sources.
It -- is the idea behind that we are at a point where that’s not really a capital issues for you all anymore right because you are below the threshold from that perspective.
So is it more about getting an opportunity to further eliminate and push down these legacy costs or is it that you just strategically don’t view the business is very attractive and you just want to be out of it all together? Can you help -- maybe give some color around that thought process? So if you go back and look what we did in the beginning of ‘11 when we split we split our portfolio into two thought processes our mortgage servicing portfolio.
We split a chunk into what we called the home loans at that point and a chunk into what we called LAS.
And it was about round numbers $11 million $12 million of loans at that time half went to LAS and half went to home loans.
And the criteria which we look at that was customers’ products and loans and stuff that were going to be a go-forward business we think of in the home loans business and the other half was products that were never going to be done again.
And the way we’re going to run the business because frankly you lose a lot of money on them due to the delinquency levels and customer strike et cetera.
So since that time we have -- and if you go back and look we showed that exact rate.
Since that time we’ve been busily trying to work the $6 million non-core loan book portfolio down and we got it down around $2.5 million-ish now and with the sales to $2 million not all of it comes out that because of combined pools and stuff but a significant amount.
We are really accelerating the ability to get to the end state on the bad mortgage servicing book for lack of better return.
And that is what we’re up to.
We had gotten at the level from a capital level and all that stuff we’re comfortable with.
And so once we get this out -- these are products that we just aren’t going to continue with and we’ve been focusing on rebuilding the business into the core business as I spoke about earlier.
So if you think about in that context think about something that might have taken us all the way into ‘15 to finish up and think about through the sales of the significant part of the $2.5 million how much we can -- the question is we are bringing that in into ‘13 and nearly ‘14 as we finish up which then accelerates our position of our company away from products and services which we didn’t plan to continue two years ago.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then last one the $1 billion decline in mortgage cost the legacy cost you guys provided from the $3.1 billion to the $2.1 billion by 4Q just kind of curious about the starting point there the 3.1 I thought that included $0.3 billion of compensatory fees from this Fannie deal.
So why is that the starting point rather than like 2.7? Is there something in that $0.3 billion that is recurring or what’s the deal there? The number was slightly less than 300.
It rounded to that number.
But in any one quarter in that business you have some plusses and some minuses that are flowing through.
So you’re right the $1 billion though is starting from a $3.1 billion base.
Let’s be clear.
We are still working through.
We signed the sales transaction January 7th working through the buyers and timing of the movement of the assets and finalizing that then how fast you can move.
There is transition issues that you got to deal with in terms of people or intermittently modification process and stuff.
So but let me flip to the other thing.
This quarter the total resources you saw on one slide dedicated to LAS went down by 9 000 between FTEs and contractors that are dedicated to this team.
We will continue to drive that down.
There is nothing more important to our company than to get this done as quickly as possible.
So Bruce has given you the outline and whether it’s in this called item or that item the idea is that we need to get the work out of here and that’s would actually take the cost and the sales closing the continued progress on the remaining pieces that we have left.
But think about say single quarter 9 000 change in headcount and think about -- we’re going as fast as we can.
So clearly it’s been really tough to try to forecast and how this would rundown and you guys are clearly not alone in having challenges.
Everybody in the industry I think has been struggling with that.
So just was kind of curious whether or not there was something in there to better understand it.
Thanks for giving the color.
We’ll go next to site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Couple of other questions on mortgage.
One is around the Fannie settlement.
So now you will be originating through Fannie as you used to really weigh mortgages for the home loans section.
I’m wondering how fast you think you can get your market share back up as a result of that? Our market share overall when you put the whole thing together I think has gone up about two tenths of a percent per quarter is the best I have and remember we are only competing in the direct-to-consumer part of the market.
So I think it’s moved from 4.2 to 4.4 to 4.6 type of numbers.
And so we expect us to keep driving our market share up.
Now again we’ve got the HARP volumes which is in the $21 billion this quarter is $7 billion to $8 billion type of number think of that that we got to replace.
And so that’s the team challenge and on the other hand we are not closing loans as quickly as we should honestly and we’ve been adding significant resources as we have downsized LAS into the home loans business to increase our fulfillment capacity.
So you put all of it together our market share continues to grow every quarter the last three or four we’ll continue to drive it.
Where it will settle in I’m not exactly sure but as I have talked about earlier that’s if you think about us having about -- think of an 8% share of servicing we got to get our origination share moving towards that direction over the next couple of years in order to have sort of equilibrium for lack of better term.
Right.
It’s just that when you stopped originating through Fannie the share came down rather sharply in a short period of time.
So I was just wondering if with higher throughput you might be able to do more there.
Well look to the issues in liquidity in the market and the kind of loans going through the issue was when we -- they happen to correspond to each other but they had really nothing to each other.
The issue is we stopped the correspondents.
As you thought about our market share when it was at its strongest in the high teens two-thirds of it or more were correspondents.
And that’s what brought our share down the retail market share is actually -- from this year our direct to retail including even HARP it’s flat year over year in terms of production and fell little bit and has grown every quarter.
So we’re selling to Freddie and we will work it out with Fannie over time but the point I am really saying is it’s not the secondary market liquidity that caused our markets to drop it’s getting out of the correspondent business.
And if you just look in this quarter remember there is a 6.5 billion last year fourth quarter versus this quarter -- this year fourth quarter was in the correspondent that was a carryover when we quit it in the third quarter at the same time we announced that we’re going to stop the thing.
And then lastly on home loans should we expect -- are you anticipating more reinvestment in the home loans group to drive that faster throughput or do you think you are at the investment spend that you want to make in that business? Of the volumes there we continue investments in the servicing fulfillment teams we moved to -- Tony Meola has done a great job and Ron Sturzenegger in that business working through LAS has now taken over sort of the good side of production along with a fellow named Steve Boland Dean Athanasia in the retail and the preferred group under David Darnell drives the production side.
We have added mortgage loan officers every single quarter focused them on the branches that we’re seeing a tremendous uptick when we get them working with our teammates.
We’re better or more connected as a company and cross things and so we’ve seen it and we are investing both on the front end and on the servicing and fulfillment the middle office so to speak.
And we moved I think 4000 increase this year so far to fulfillment and we will move some -- we will continue to move them because ultimately this -- the retail production side is a good business right now.
And we’ll go next to the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
First question on the credit card business Brian could you just give us some color about what’s going on right there? I mean your numbers are not robust and I am wondering -- I know you have lost share there.
What’s being invested into that business?  So as we think about starting in 2009 Nancy we started to reposition that business because it’s gotten too far into the broader credit and that’s the crisis remember we charged off $60 billion $70 billion in that business.
We start repositioning it we’ve got about now where we wanted.
In other words we have a definitive group of businesses that’s very core and we like a lot.
And we have the core business.
So this quarter I think we did 840 000 cards and about 350 000 more or less through the franchise and another 700 some thousand I think online.
So we’re producing what we need to do.
Balances grew point to point got to be careful for the fourth quarter you get a little kick around Christmas obviously.
But if you look at it we look across the last few quarters and (inaudible) we get out this quarter we are holding around 14-ish percent market share which is fine.
So now the question is we pushed a little bit hard on the and I use the broad context marketing not direct mail market but marketing driving to the franchise.
So what we have done to position the credit quarterly well it’s a much more repayment business now 19% plus pay rate which is basically up from 14 probably six or eight quarters ago.
And so it’s a higher quality business it’s drilled the core customer base the one to three card and the rewards card we have drilled up the core platform are working well on the retail segments and then obviously in the wealth management segment we have a greater rate of products.
So we are -- I would say that we got to where we wanted now it’s stabilized the run-off book that we are fighting on our growth basis down to $3.5 billion down from 15.
I think they should start to see some growth but it will take -- it’s going to bump around to where it is right now for few quarters.
But I’d say there’s nothing wrong with business and we’re making a fair amount of money right now.
The risk adjusted margin is its highest it’s ever been.
Secondly Bruce if you could just speak to the comp ratios in the investment bank and how you guys are trying to position yourself relative to your competition? Yeah I think generally we’re in that 40% area from a compensation perspective and obviously given the performance and where we are we need to be competitive with where peers are.
But I don’t think you’d really see that changed materially during the course of 2012.
Great.
Thank you.
We’ll go next site of Mike Mayo with CLSA? Your line is open.
Hi.
First just a follow-up the FAS 91 amortization expense what would have been the change in the securities yield and the margin if not for that looking third quarter to fourth quarter? I want to get back to you with that exact number Mike.
I think I have got but I want to make sure I’m right.
So why don’t we get back to you with that number? Okay.
Do you just generally I mean because your margin was up that’s good and the securities yield is up 11 basis points but do you think it was -- would have been down if not for that? I want to think Mike it was somewhere between 9 and 11 basis points.
I just don’t have the exact number.
Okay.
That’s fine.
And then going to the mortgage putbacks and so the Fannie settlement you got that done.
It sounds like you’re feeling better about the rep and warranty expense.
I think I heard you saying it might go from $300 million to $150 million per quarter.
So I sense you’re feeling better.
I’m trying to reconcile that with what’s taking place with the MBIA versus Countrywide court moves.
And correct my thinking if anything is wrong here but I think it’s an issue of Bank of America successor liability or is Bank of America responsible for Countrywide? And as of January 9th and 10th the oral arguments were completed so I understand it’s in the hands of Judge Bransten the New York State Supreme Court? And the motion says that Bank of America is responsible for Countrywide and if so I guess that could put the $8.5 billion private-label settlement at risk? So my question is could that $8.5 billion settlement be at risk? Do I understand what’s happening in the court correctly and what happens if the $8.5 billion private-label settlement does not go through? Yeah.
I think a couple of things on that Mike.
First I think from our perspective the $8.5 billion Gibbs &amp; Bruns settlement is going through the court process would likely get wrapped up some time in the second quarter or early in the third quarter and that’s completely independent from what’s going on at MBIA.
With respect to MBIA in the broader monolines as we’ve said before generally if you look at geography within the financial statements the majority of the work that we do and where the monolines are accrued for at this point is within the litigation line item as opposed to within our provision for reps and warranties.
And the third thing I would say is that as it relates to kind of the general rep and warrant question.
I think the most important thing to go back to is that virtually -- the large majority of everything that was done with the GSEs at this point between our global settlement with Freddie and Countrywide and our global settlement with both Countrywide and Bank of America with the GSEs just takes away a significant amount of risk relative to where we’ve been before.
So we’re really just talking private-label at this point? You’ve got the as I referenced you’ve got the several monolines that we’re working through on a litigation prospective and then you’re right you’ve got the private-label piece.
And I think if you got back to the comments that we’ve made about the geography the representations and warranties you can see we have a pretty sizable amount set aside to work through the private-label exposures.
So what is the significance of the decision by Judge Bransten in the New York State Supreme Court? There was a Wall Street Journal article on January 11th some other chatter saying that if this motion goes against you and you’re deemed responsible for the legal liabilities of Countrywide then that could be a negative event for you? Do you agree with that? That Mike I mean we could I think we think about this litigation goes back and forth and the judge has a lot of decisions to make a lot of cases and we’ll play it out here but we’re comfortable our legal positions across the Board.
Okay.
But for that we should you think we’ll hear next month as opposed to in a mid-year? I’m not sure the exact time.
Okay.
Just last question next -- I don’t -- I’m just trying to -- how do we get arms around that risk? That’s really my question? And so if you wanted to just give advice to somebody okay here is the potential hit if things go wrong? What would be your answer to that or just is there no answer? I think what you -- what I would suggest you do on that I’m not going to quote somebody else’s financial statements.
But I think you can go look on MBIA’s financial statements and see how much that they believe that we’re owed and that they are owed from us that’s disclosed in their financial statement.
So you can look at that and then the corollary is I think you have to keep in mind that there is a significant amount of money that they owe us within our Global Markets business that’s very significant that we have marked it cents on the dollar.
Great.
All right.
Thank you.
And we’ll take a final question this one from the site of Guy Moszkowski from Autonomous Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You guys have done a great job countering the net interest margin pressure obviously with managing your long-term debt down and maybe it’s too early to think about this.
But obviously under Orderly Liquidation Authority in Dodd-Frank there is some provision for bailing debt and I was wondering how you guys are thinking about that and how you might implement it over time? I think the biggest thing Guy that you have to go back to is that you have seen that the different reports that it’s -- the people are looking at these amounts based on not only the amount of debt but also the amount of equity that you have on the balance sheet.
So if you go and look at our ratios we obviously as far as the amount of pure common equity and other equity related instruments on the balance sheet now are more than virtually all of our peers and because of the way through the series of mergers that happened our debt footprint on an absolute basis as well as on a relative basis is higher than our peers.
So as we look at this and as we talk about going forward I think we still have a lot of work to do and opportunity to get our interest expense down through shrinking the size of the debt footprint and just bringing it down to where the rest of the industry is.
So we can’t predict with certainty where this goes but we know as we look at the different ratios and the different metrics we still have some opportunity to continue to benefit the interest expense line just to get to where our peers are from an overall debt and equity perspective.
Okay.
That’s fair.
Just one last question regarding expenses obviously you’ve stuck with your guidance on the new BAC and you’ve told us where you are along the path of getting to those goals.
And you’ve updated us on the LAS expense reduction initiatives as well but you’re also talking about reinvesting and specifically around mortgage origination but I think more broadly as well because obviously you don’t want to ignore revenue growth opportunities.
How do we reconcile those things and how much reinvestment at this point should we expect to see of the new BAC $8 billion and of the LAS $10 billion? On the LAS I don’t think you’d see it.
In the new BAC it’s net of the cost of achieving the results which -- as well as your technology implementation cost and if you look at our technology development costs over the last few years we’ve gone from about to $2 billion and change to $3.6 billion per year.
And the investments we’re making in new BAC are investments in the franchise.
In other words to get the efficiencies we have re-embedded in there as the rework of our entire trading platform systems and things like that.
So we aren’t investing to get the savings but investing to also strengthen the franchise at the same time.
So it’s all netted in there.
Okay.
So you would encourage analysts to continue to bring those entire amounts to the bottom line by 2015? Yeah.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
And this concludes our Q&amp;A.
I will go back to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Look forward to next quarter.
And this will conclude today’s program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to today’s program.
[Operator instructions.]  It’s now my pleasure to introduce Kevin Stitt.
Please begin sir.
Good morning.
Before Bruce Thompson and Brian Moynihan begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
And please see our press release and SEC documents for more reference.
And with that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start on slide four as we work through the presentation.
We earned $0.20 per fully diluted share during the first quarter or $2.6 billion up significantly from both the first and fourth quarter of last year.
The one item we want to highlight up front since it only happens once a year is approximately $900 million of expense related to retirement eligible stock based compensation awards that we have had in the first quarter for the past several years.
We believe first quarter results demonstrate significant progress towards the goals we have discussed over the past several quarters.
Global markets client activity drove improved sales and trading results versus the fourth quarter of 2012 while investment banking performance remained strong.
Global wealth and investment management reported record earnings post the Merrill Lynch merger.
Expenses in most of our businesses continued to decline although they are partially offset by higher revenue related incentive compensation and the impact of expense related to annual retirement eligible stock based compensation awards.
Capital and liquidity both continued to strengthen and are at record levels by most metrics.
The interest rate environment continues to be challenging but moderate loan growth and reduced average long term debt helped stabilize net interest income versus the fourth quarter.
Credit quality improved in almost all products and both consumer and commercial loss rates were the lowest in several years.
And we continue to make strides in resolving legacy issues as we just recently reached an agreement to settle three class action lawsuits involving Countrywide-issued RMBS.
On slide if we look at the balance sheet you can see the total balance sheet was down from both the fourth quarter of last year as well as the year ago period although total loans are up slightly.
If we look at commercial loans and leases they’re up 3% relative to the fourth quarter of 2012 and up 17% compared to the year ago period.
If we move down to deposits deposits were down slightly from the fourth quarter of ’12 to the first quarter of ’13 although up approximately $54 billion or 5% from the first quarter of 2012.
Tangible common equity ratio was up 20 basis points from the fourth quarter to 6.94% and tangible book value was up about $0.10 to $13.46 at the end of the first quarter.
As you know we started reporting under Basel I incorporating the market risk final rule this quarter.
The change added approximately $87 billion to risk-weighted assets.
As you can see on slide six at the end of March our tier one common capital ratio under Basel I incorporating this change was approximately 10.6% up from what we would have reported had we incorporated the change at the end of last year.
Under Basel III on a fully phased in basis tier one common capital was estimated to be $131 billion or 9.4% versus the fourth quarter estimated calculation of $129 billion and 9.25% respectively.
I do want to bring to your attention that effective January 1 of this year on a prospective basis we adjusted the amount of capital being allocated to the business segments.
The adjustment reflects an enhancement to prior year methodology and now considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to our internal risk-based economic capital models.
On slide 22 and the appendix we summarize the adjusted allocations for you.
If we turn to slide seven our global excess liquidity sources remain very strong at $372 billion.
Ending long term debt did increase $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter of ’12 as we funded the January payment for the Fannie Mae settlement and opportunistically accelerated our 2013 issuance plans.
While we issued $11.5 billion of vanilla parent company debt during the quarter we still expect our long term debt to decline over the remainder of 2013 as well as during 2014.
Our parent company liquidity remains strong at $100 billion and time to require funding was 30 months.
We’d expect to continue to remain over two years of coverage.
If you turn to slide eight net interest income our net interest income increased from $10.6 billion or a net interest yield of 2.35% in the fourth quarter to $10.9 billion or 2.43% in the first quarter of 2013.
If we adjust these numbers for FAS 91 in hedging effectiveness on the upper right hand chart you can see that net interest income was effectively flat at $10.6 billion or 2.37% during the first quarter of 2013.
As we look at these results we benefited obviously from the market related premium amortization expense.
In addition we also benefited from higher commercial loan balances as well as the reduction in the average long term debt as well as the deposit rates paid.
Those benefits were partially offset by lower consumer loan balances and yields as well as two fewer days during the period.
Let’s move to slide nine and look at expenses.
Total expenses were down from both the first quarter a year ago and the fourth quarter as we delivered on expense reduction in LAS as well as ongoing cost savings in our other businesses from New BAC.
LAS expenses excluding litigation and the IFR acceleration agreement were down approximately $500 million from the fourth quarter to $2.6 billion during the first quarter.
This decrease marks the first quarter where the correlation between expenses and lower delinquent loan levels is visible.
Delinquent loan levels started to drop during the middle of last year but as we have previously said there is a lag of one to two quarters before you see the associated expenses decrease.
LAS headcount for March was down approximately 3 000 from December while headcount excluding LAS was down approximately 1 000.
As we’ve said previously we believe that LAS expenses ex litigation will be at $2.1 billion or lower in the fourth quarter of this year and with feel like the progress that we made during the first quarter in getting to that goal was quite strong.
Excluding LAS expenses litigation and annual retirement eligible cost expenses in the quarter in the red box on the slide were $13.8 billion an increase of $558 million from the fourth quarter of ’12 and down $920 million or 6% from the first quarter a year ago.
The increase from the fourth quarter was due to higher revenue related incentive compensation approximately $800 million which more than offset the impact of cost savings.
We continue to believe that we will achieve 75% of Project New BAC cost saves or $1.5 billion per quarter by the fourth quarter of this year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28% with nothing noteworthy to point out.
We would expect a slightly higher effective tax rate for the rest of the year plus or minus any unusual items like another U.K.
tax rate reduction.
This year’s expected U.K.
rate reduction of 3% up from the previous assumption of 2% should be enacted in the third quarter and will result in a charge of approximately $1.2 billion to write down our U.K.
DTA in that quarter.
If we turn to slide 10 you can see that credit quality continues to improve.
Net chargeoffs declined 19% to $2.5 billion during the first quarter which is the lowest level in several years.
The consumer loss rate dropped 34 basis points to 1.7% the lowest since the beginning of 2008 while the commercial loss rate declined 5 basis points to 25 basis points the lowest since 2006.
Provision expense of $1.7 billion includes a reserve reduction of approximately $800 million reflecting the improved trends.
NPLs and reservable criticized balances also continued to decrease.
In addition 28% or $6.4 billion of our NPAs are current consumer loans that were modified and are now current after a successful trial period or are loans classified as NPAs due to regulatory guidance that was issued in the second half of 2012.
Our allowance coverage to annualized chargeoffs increased from 1.96x in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 2.2x in the first quarter of 2013.
If we turn to slide 11 we highlight the results of consumer business banking.
Starting this quarter we’ve combined business banking and deposits for reporting purposes.
Pretax earnings for consumer and business banking increased 4% versus the fourth quarter driven by improved credit cost as well as lower expenses.
However net income was relatively flat due to a higher tax rate.
Average deposit balances increased 4% or $18 billion compared to the fourth quarter driven by $11 billion of organic growth and $7 billion related to transfers from global wealth and investment management.
As you know we periodically move customers across business segments after an evaluation of how they can be best served by us.
Rates paid on deposits during the quarter declined 3 basis points due to pricing discipline and a mix shift in our deposits.
Brokerage assets increased $6.7 billion from the fourth quarter or 9% due to market appreciation and increased customer flows.
We reduced banking centers during the first quarter as we continue to optimize the delivery network.
Our mobile banking customer base reached 12.6 million which is up 5% from the fourth quarter and 30% from a year ago.
Combined credit and debit card purchase volumes had a seasonal decline of 6% from the fourth quarter but increased 3% from a year ago.
U.S.
consumer credit card retail spend per average active account increased 7% from first quarter a year ago.
Average loans did decline $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter due to seasonality and continued noncore portfolio runoff.
And as I mentioned earlier credit quality continued to improve with some of our credit quality indicators at historic lows.
If we turn to slide 12 we address one of the two businesses within our consumer real estate services area home loans.
As you know the home loans business is responsible for [first lead] in home equity originations within consumer real estate services.
First mortgage retail originations of approximately $24 billion were up 11% from the fourth quarter and were up 57% compared with retail originations from a year ago.
We believe these increases are reflective of improvements in our retail market share.
Consequently we are adding employees to improve our sales and fulfillment capacity which is the driver behind higher expenses in home loans during the quarter.
However given lower margins realized during the first quarter core production income decreased from the fourth quarter.
If we turn to slide 13 legacy assets and servicing had a loss of $1.4 billion in the quarter a significant improvement from the fourth quarter that was impacted by our settlements with Fannie Mae.
The provision for reps and warranties [unintelligible] was $250 million during the quarter.
The MSR ended the quarter at $5.8 billion up slightly from the end of the fourth quarter.
Although we announced the sale of mortgage servicing rights in January the accounting sale will be recorded throughout the year as the servicing asset is transferred.
MSR results including hedges were positive for the quarter.
The capitalized MSR rate ended the period at 61 basis points versus 55 basis points at the end of the year and 58 basis points a year ago.
Results did include approximately $700 million of litigation during the first quarter of ’13 as well as a similar amount during the first quarter of 2012.
As you can see from our press release this morning as well as on slide 24 in the slide presentation we did reach an agreement in principle to settle for $500 million three class action lawsuits involving Countrywide-issued RMBS.
We feel very good about resolving these exposures which addressed original principal balance RMBS that exceeded $350 billion or what we believe represents approximately 70% of the unpaid principal balance of all MBS as to which securities disclosure claims have been filed or threatened as to all Bank of America related entities.
Servicing income decreased 17% or $182 million compared to the fourth quarter.
47% of this decrease was related to the legal sale of MSRs in connection with the sales that we announced in January together with other smaller MSR sales.
The balance reflected payoffs that exceeded originations in the portfolio due mainly to our exit from the correspondent channel in late 2011 combined with the seasonality and the timing of mortgage payments.
The number of loans in our servicing portfolio totaled approximately 6.5 million at the end of March down 866 000 from the end of the year due to actual transfers of approximately 570 000 and the rest due to payoffs.
60-plus-day delinquent loans dropped from 773 000 units at the end of December to 667 000 units at the end of March of which a third of the decrease is associated with transferred servicing.
We continue to believe that our 60-plus-day delinquent loans at the end of this year will be at 400 000 units or below.
If we turn to slide 14 global wealth and investment management had a very strong quarter.
Earnings increased 25% to $720 million from the fourth quarter and continue to set post-merger records in several metrics.
The pretax margin of approximately 26% was impacted by low credit cost and a higher contribution from corporate ALM activities some of which we would not expect to continue.
Overall client activity in the wealth management business in the quarter was strong across all categories.
Client balances were up $82 billion or 3.8% from the fourth quarter due to higher market levels and net positive flows offset somewhat by the net migration of deposits to consumer and business banking.
Period-end deposits dropped $26 billion driven by $19 billion of net migration once again to consumer and business banking.
The rest of the decrease reflected year-end seasonality heightened by the fiscal cliff and client investment activity including long term assets under management activity.
Ending loan balances were at record levels and long term AUM flows were a record $20 billion the highest quarterly amount since the Merrill merger and the 15th consecutive positive quarter.
Net income in global banking slide 15 was $1.3 billion versus $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter and down from the first quarter of last year primarily due to higher provision expense due to loan growth and asset quality stabilization.
Revenue increased 2% from the fourth quarter reflecting increased business lending revenue.
Asset quality continues to improve.
Net chargeoffs declined $117 million or 51%.
Reservable utilized criticized exposure declined 6% and NPAs dropped 20% to $1.7 billion.
On slide 16 you can see corporate-wide investment banking fees increased 26% from a year ago but were down slightly from a record-setting fourth quarter in debt issuance.
Per [unintelligible] Bank of America Merrill Lynch gained market share compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and based on our reported peer results we believe at $1.5 billion in investment banking fees during the first quarter of 2013 we were a very strong number two.
Average loans increased almost $12 billion from the fourth quarter driven by growth in C&amp;I as well as within commercial real estate.
Ending loan balances continue to be higher than average balances reflecting the momentum that we saw throughout the quarter.
Average deposit balances at $221 billion for the first quarter declined approximately $21 billion compared to the fourth quarter partially impacted by the expiration of tax.
If we switch to global markets if you flip to slide 17 net income of $1.4 billion increased approximately $1 billion excluding DVA from the fourth quarter reflecting increased sales and trading activity.
We did record DVA losses of $55 million in the first quarter of this year versus losses of $276 million in the fourth quarter and losses of $1.4 billion a year ago.
Total revenue ex DVA was up $1.9 billion or 58% from the fourth quarter and was down 11% from the first quarter a year ago.
Sales and trading revenue ex DVA increased $1.9 billion from the fourth quarter driven by our [fic] business due to improved market sentiment.
[Fic] revenue ex DVA was up 85% from the fourth quarter due to improved customer activity across all product categories.
Versus a year ago [Fic] revenue was down 20% ex DVA as market making opportunities and credit products were reduced due to spread tightening being much more significant a year ago than what we experienced in the first quarter of this year.
Also contributing to the decline was a gain in credit products in the first quarter of last year that did not repeat and a decline in commodities revenue.
In equities excluding DVA results increased 61% from the fourth quarter due primarily to improved trading performance and increased volumes in cash markets driving higher commissions.
Versus a year ago equity results were up 8% due to increased client financing balances.
Average VAR of $81 million in the quarter is down from $100 million in the fourth quarter and effectively flat with the year ago period.
On slide 18 we show you the results of all other which to remind you includes our global principal investments business the non-U.S.
consumer card business our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management insurance and the discontinued real estate portfolio as well as the international wealth management business.
The loss of $867 million was driven mainly by first quarter annual retirement eligible costs.
The $1.7 billion decline in net income versus the prior quarter was driven by the annual retirement eligible costs and the absence of tax benefit that were recognized in the fourth quarter of last year.
With that let me turn it over to Brian.
Thanks Bruce.
Before we take questions I thought I’d leave you with a few thoughts about the quarter.
As you can see on slide 19 we continue to work to stabilize the revenue streams and begin to build the strength to drive in the future.
At the same time we continue to work on the cost structure both reducing costs and at the same time investing in the business.
As Bruce talked to you about the 4 000 people we put to help drive our mortgage production and the 1 000 more loan officers are examples.
That in turn will help increase our profitability now and in the future.
We continue to see continued momentum and driving balance growth across all our customer groups.
When you look at the consumer side this quarter we were pleased with the growth in deposits the continued stabilization and profitability of the credit card business and the ability to continue to drive the mortgage activity the production activity the way we want to up 50% plus year over year.
As you can see in our global wealth management businesses we have had a record level of assets under management come in from our industry leading business and they had strong performance including operating margins.
As you think about the commercial lending business you can see both year over year and linked quarter we’ve had strong commercial loan growth as those businesses continue to produce strong profits for our company.
We remain strong in our investment banking revenues as Bruce said the number two positioning and we continue to drive our positioning in that business.
If we look at our capital markets business as you can see we continue to show good profitability and a strong increase from the fourth quarter but we continue to maintain a low risk in the methodology which will run that business driven toward the customers that we serve and making sure that we balance risk and reward at any turn.
We still have a lot of work ahead of us as a company.
We feel good about where we are and the progress we made this quarter.
We’ll continue to drive the earnings forward to deliver the results that you expect of us and we expect of ourselves.
So let’s open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator instructions.]  We’ll first go to the line of Glenn Schorr from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Good loan growth in the C&amp;I and commercial real estate side.
Just curious what kinds of yields are being brought on?  And from what I understand there’s pretty reasonable competition for those new loans so just curious on how you balance the growth and margin compression in the markets? It’s interesting if we look at the commercial loan balances across the platform the spread on the new originations was actually up slightly relative to both the fourth quarter of last year as well as relative to the first quarter of last year.
And it’s interesting in that the loans that came on not only were the spreads wider but based on our internal risk ratings the credit quality of what was being brought on was also stronger.
So we feel like the loans that we’re bringing on we’re doing in a prudent way.
And you can see that as you look in the supplements that a decent chunk of the loans that are being brought on are international.
Not any real concentrations but both international domestic and really across all products.
I wanted to get your thoughts on the expenses on slide nine.
I wanted to make sure that I understood.
Should the starting point being that the retirement eligible is a first quarter phenomenon is the starting point the 18.12 less the 900 or so as we think about second quarter and then folding in the New BAC incremental efficiencies? Yes.
I think Glenn that’s exactly right.
That 18.2 included the 900 from the retirement eligible employees that only happens once a year.
So you’re right as you go to the second quarter the starting point should be 17.3 million.
There would be two other things that I would point out once again that if you look at the compensation expense in the first quarter relative to the last couple of quarters of last year it was elevated by about $800 million based on the revenues that we saw within the sales and trading the global banking and to a lesser extent the wealth management business.
So we hope those repeat but I would just highlight that that’s a delta relative to the last several quarters of last year.
And then obviously from that starting point we would look to continue to drive down expenses based on the work that we’ve spoken about with New BAC that we would expect to achieve throughout the year.
And you also mentioned your long term debt is down $75 billion year on year and you expect more maturities in ’13 and ’14 in the 20s.
I guess that’s perfectly straightforward.
Does that include any adjustments for what’s coming down the pipe with OLA or do you have to just take a wait and see attitude on what those rules are? We obviously are paying close attention to the different OLA proposals.
I think if you look at the mix between the Merrill debt as well as the BAC debt and you compare those dollar amounts relative to risk weighted assets and you compare us relative to our peers at least all of the work that we’ve done suggests that we’re at the very high end of the amount of debt and related instruments that we have relative to risk-weighted assets.
So the rules obviously are not clear at this point.
We feel like we’re positioned very well based on what we understand the different proposals are that are out there realizing it still is moving around.
So as we go throughout the year we would expect as I said to continue to drive that footprint down not only in 2013 but throughout 2014 and we continue to be very focused on that.
I’d add that there’s also a rationalization of the footprint.
Remember this was put on by various companies not by one company that we’ve been restructuring.
So even if there’s an amount outstanding the cost could come down because you can string it out.
The rates paid are fairly high because they’re different environments than we’ve been in and expect to be in in the next couple of years.
So there’s even value even if you said the [notional] wouldn’t move as far based on some interpretation of the rules to get debt footprint more rational and more spread across time than it is today.
We’ll go next to the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Just to follow up a little bit on the fixed income trading results.
Obviously it can be lumpy quarter to quarter but it was down a little bit more than we saw elsewhere.
You talked about some of the mortgage areas.
Was there a particular gain last year that was unusual?  Or it just activity? We referenced three things.
The first was there was a gain that as you look at that decline that was in the area of $250 million that I would categorize more quite frankly as a recovery than a gain that we had highlighted during the quarter last year.
So a decent chunk of that was a gain that did not recur.
Then I think it’s important if you go and look at during the quarter we saw the financial spreads which tend to be a fairly significant part of any [fic] trading business tighten significantly in the first quarter of last year and during the first quarter of this year start to finish actually widen.
So that was the second piece of it.
And then the third piece we referenced is that commodities had a particularly strong quarter last year and did not have as strong a quarter this year.
So those three general things I would say.
Flows generally continue to be very strong and as you look at where we were relative to the fourth quarter last year I actually think we continue to make good progress.
But it was a little lumpy in the first quarter of last year.
And I’d add that as you think about how we’re running the global markets business if you look at our VAR and our risk taking we’re keeping a balance relative to the rest of the company.
And so there will be times when people do better than we are and there will be times we’ll do better than them.
But we’re keeping it balanced.
The second thing that Tom [Montag] and his team worked on is the expense side.
So you can see the operating leverage when you look across the first quarter of last year to this year and importantly the fourth quarter of last year to this year.
You can see that with a little bit of revenue you generate a lot more profit.
And so the idea is we’re keeping this business so that we can make some money on a $3 billion trading revenue level in the aggregate in the business and a lot of money at a $5 billion level and you’re seeing that play out.
So if you think about it we made money on every trading day of the quarter.
The VAR was down.
And so I think we should be careful to think that we may not [roar] as much as other people might because this is one of the many businesses that we have and we drive it for the benefit of the investing customers and also the issuing customers.
And then just separately in terms of your capital actions I think many were positively surprised by the CCAR Fed approval for buybacks in both common and preferred.
Just any commentary in terms of the pace of the common share repurchase and on the preferred side?  The timing of that?  And do you have to issue any to replace what you’re calling? Two things on that.
The first is you probably saw I believe on April 1 we actually went ahead and issued the redemption notices for the $5.5 billion of preferreds that are outstanding.
Just under $500 million of preferred dividend savings that we’ll have on that.
And there was no requirement to issue to replace that so as you look at that redemption that’s a good redemption where you can look at those savings.
As it relates to the common we’d expect to be balanced and work through the share repurchase throughout the year and really don’t have much more to comment on no.
We’ll move next to the line of Chris Mustascio with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruce a quick question.
We’ve gone through expenses in terms of the stock compensation in the quarter and also higher first quarter compensation related to revenues.
And you can kind of back that out and see what the run rate is for the second quarter.
But you also mentioned that you expect to achieve $1.5 billion in call saves per quarter by fourth quarter of 2013 related to Project New BAC.
How do I account for that third piece of the pie?  I know the stock compensation in the quarter.
I know the overall compensation being high because of revenues.
How do I account for New BAC into a run rate up second quarter? We’ve said that at the end of 2012 on a quarterly basis we had achieved $900 million per quarter of New BAC cost saves in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So as you look to adjust your models we will take that $900 million a quarter that we would have had in the fourth quarter and that will grow to $1.5 billion by the fourth quarter of 2013.
Some of that we achieved during the first quarter and we’d expect to achieve that throughout the year.
And then the second piece outside of the more one-timers that we talked about in the first quarter were the LAS expenses where we’ve said we’ll get that number below $2.1 billion by the end of 2013.
And we obviously got that from $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter down to $2.6 billion.
So in addition to those compensation related items we’ve got those two levers to continue to drive expenses down during the balance of the year.
And just to be clear the $1.5 billion in New BAC by fourth quarter 2013 what are the cost saves running in this quarter on New BAC?  The delta I can kind of gauge.
We’ve not given an exact number.
I think what you should do is if you go back to slide nine and look at the red bar we’ve said that there was 800 of increased incentives in that 13.8.
That gets the number down to 13.
You should assume that’s part of the benefit between 13.3 and 13 related to New BAC but we’ve not given an exact number.
And we’ll go next to the line of Meredith Whitney with Meredith Whitney Advisory Group.
Your line is open.
I just wanted some commentary on sequencing of litigation reserves and what’s already been factored in in terms of the bulk of litigation settlements and then what’s on the horizon? I’m going to walk through the different pieces and as it relates to overall litigation as well as the rep and warrant.
And I’d ask you to flip back to slide 23 where we lay this out.
I think one of the things that we feel very good about the progress during the quarter is if you walk through what we’ve laid out on the bottom of page 23 if we start with the reps and warrants between the settlements at the beginning of 2011 as well as the Fannie settlement that we had at year-end you can see that as we lay out here we’re generally through the GSE exposure as it relates to rep and warrant.
You then go down to the monolines.
There are three significant monolines that we did business with five in total.
We obviously have had previous settlements with two of those three monolines.
The one that obviously gets a lot of press is MBIA that continues to be out there.
You then go down into the private label rep and warrant and obviously the most significant piece of that is the Gibbs &amp; Bruns settlement that continues to work through the court process and we would expect the outcome of that to be during the third quarter of this year.
So as you look at reps and warrants we’re through a significant portion of that.
If you then flip to the securities litigation which is the other significant piece of the litigation expense one of the reasons that we think the settlement that we announced today was significant is as I referenced if we look at the original unpaid balance company wide of all of the securities that were underwritten this settlement today relates to companywide about 70% of that.
So I don’t think anyone’s going to ever at this point declare complete victory.
We do think that between the Fannie and related settlements and the look back in the fourth quarter as well as the settlement that we’ve announced today that we’re moving through in a pretty meaningful way this pipeline of items.
We’ll move next to the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Bruce just following up on that you have on that same page the range of possible loss above additional accruals of up to $4 billion.
There was some concern that some of the recent legal decisions in the monoline cases particularly around the causation issue might have impacted your estimates there.
It doesn’t look like it did.
Can you tell us why that hasn’t changed any of your outlook on that RPL number? Once again the RPL that we have within the rep and warrant will continue to be up to $4 billion.
As we’ve said before at this point given we don’t have repurchase history with the monolines the monolines are covered within our litigation reserves.
And we have both litigation reserves as well as range of possible loss for litigation.
And you should assume that there was some additional monies during the quarter in litigation expense that was set aside for the monolines.
And then you noted that the settlement that you announced today covers 70% of issuances on which claims have been made.
Is that what you said? That’s correct.
Claims or threatened claims.
So where does that leave some of the higher-profile government suits like FHFA and some of the things that we know about? The two most significant that are out there on the securities litigation that have been more public would be [FAFA] as well as AIG.
And on the Gibbs &amp; Bruns the final hearing is in late May.
I guess deliberations could extend for a few months after that.
Do you hope to get the final resolution in the third quarter? That’s our best sense.
Far be it from us to forecast that process but our best estimate would be the third quarter.
And then switching gears on the net interest income do you expect to maybe do better than the core $10.6 billion now that you have a little bit of loan growth and then day count or do you expect to kind of stay around that level? I think at this point where we’ve guided is we’ve said that with the work that we’ve done that ex any market related impacts that $10.5 billion is a good starting point.
That number can bounce around but I would continue to look at that $10.5 billion in the near term as the right starting point.
It’s a good question.
I think as we look at the chargeoffs and the move in chargeoffs to have almost a 20% decline in chargeoffs I think speaks to the quality of the portfolio and the work that we had said had been done back in late ’08 and early ’09 as it relates to consumer underwriting.
We previously said that as we look at provision chargeoffs will come down about the time that the releases also come down to get you to a level between 1.8 and 2.2.
If you look at what we experienced this quarter and with what we’re seeing with the trends it clearly feels like we’ll be at the low end of that going forward.
This quarter you were below the range right? Yes.
So are we setting a new range?  Or do you still think we should think about that range of 1.8 to 2.2? I would think about it at the bottom of the range at this point.
It’s clear it’s all about the home finance side now.
You see the credit card business continue to make some incremental improvement.
It’s made a dramatic improvement from the high points going back several quarters.
But it’s really about mortgages and everything you hear about in the market that we’re witnessing in our portfolios in terms of house price improvement.
Activity levels will bear well on that as we look forward obviously.
One more thing on the revenue side.
The mortgage servicing revenues seemed to take a step down from the MSR sale.
What should the cadence of that be going forward?  Is part of the decline kind of built in from the phased in sale? I think what we said is that roughly $90-100 million of the decline in servicing revenue was a result of the sales.
We’ve said that as we get to the end of the year the sales will ultimately lead to a reduction in revenues of about $200 million related to the MSR sales.
We obviously had a fair bit of that given that a decent chunk of the performing sales had an effective close date on January 31.
So we’ve clearly taken a piece of that and there’s probably another $100 million a quarter to come relating to those sales by the end of this year.
We tend not to just look at the revenue number but we look at the contribution from a pretax perspective   And how do you guys think about the ultimate target FMSR size and maintaining a balance between origination and servicing in the mortgage business for when rates eventually rise? At this point the MSR balance was roughly $5.8 billion at the end of the first quarter.
If we were to pro forma those sales throughout the year assuming rates stay where they are it gets you down to about a $5 billion number.
From an overall capital perspective plus or minus that feels about right.
Obviously any change from that’s going to be a function of the opportunities to originate things that make sense versus any type of accelerated prepayments that may or may not happen.
But I think $5 billion from an MSR balance perspective is not a bad number to be looking at.
From the origination side the first order of business after we got out of the correspondent business was to kind of get the business on an upward trajectory.
And if you go back and look starting in the fourth quarter of ’11 we’ve basically grown retail originations quarter after quarter after quarter and this quarter again we had another 15% off the fourth quarter last year.
But if you actually look at the headcounts remember we’ve got a thousand plus loan officers working this quarter that weren’t here last year.
They’re training and getting up to speed so the next order of business is how to overcome the HARP refinancing levels which we have in the portfolio and sort of get to a core run rate.
But there’s no cap on us in terms of retail originations.
We’ll do as much as we can do for our clients.
And you’ve seen us drive it forward every quarter and now we have more people more training we’re up to speed.
4 000 more people in the fulfillment area.
And we don’t see the pipeline slowing down.
We’ll move next to the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Your line is open.
In wealth management just hoping to dig in.
You guys highlighted a couple of things that helped.
The margins have been higher which it seems you don’t think are going to repeat.
About how much of a tailwind were those items?  And if we were looking ex it seems as though maybe we might have an updraft anyway because we were looking at like a 500 basis point increase year over year and quarter over quarter.
We talked about credit costs.
I think within the business there was roughly a $30 million reserve release during the quarter that we wouldn’t assume is necessary going to continue.
But I think if you look at overall pretax margin we’ve been kind of in the 20-21% area.
This quarter was 26%.
I think the assumption going forward is that we’ll clearly be north of the 21% but I wouldn’t expect that in the near term we run at 26% either.
I think you also highlighted the ALM as a tailwind too.
Is there any way to quantify that?  And can you help me understand the mechanics of how ALM will run through GWIM.
I think the easiest way to look at it is if you look at deltas we had some of the market-based benefits that we quoted that were roughly $300 million during the quarter.
A portion of that gets allocated to GWIM and if you look at the GWIM business you can see that the net interest income was up about $100 million.
So I’ll give you those pieces of data but we’re not going to quote exact numbers as to how we allocate that out.
But it’s a piece of that.
On the NPAs I guess you guys had said that 20% from mods or regulatory requirements and we’ve run through the regulatory requirements before.
Just hoping to understand on the mods it was my understanding that after about six months of payments the [TDRs] are reclassified such current.
Do you guys account for TDRs differently than that?  Or can you help me understand how that works? You’re exactly right.
Once a borrower goes through the trial mod period and gets to a permanent mod they need to be current for six months before we would look to bring those back in.
And when you consider that number realize that coming out of the national mortgage settlement there was heightened modification activity during the third and fourth quarters in particular of last year.
So we clearly would expect some of those to cross the six month period during the second quarter.
And if you go back to I believe it was the third quarter when we adopted the regulatory guidance the biggest of that $6-plus billion north of $4 billion of that is the regulatory guidance that was given.
So that’s going to be the bigger piece of the two things.
We’ll move next to the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
A couple of questions one on mortgage.
You indicated in the past that you were interested in increasing the mortgage origination share and you’ve done that.
I’m just wondering how close you are to where you want to be or are you still in the process of building out what capacity you want to have there? On the page you can see that the mortgage loan officers are up about a thousand year over year.
We are still adding as we speak.
The success of putting them into the branch environments where you have a mortgage loan officer an FSA personal bankers is multiples of the success in other branch environments.
And so we’re just driving that.
So the pipeline is still as strong as it’s ever been.
We added thousands of people to get them closed on time and we’re still working our tail off to get mortgage loans closed on time.
I don’t think there’s any cap on where this could go.
We still have tremendous opportunity within our client base that are unserved that our clients go elsewhere to get their mortgages.
So you’ve seen it drive up 50% plus year over year another $3 billion increase in quarterly production fourth quarter to first quarter.
So I challenged the team they’ve got to outrun the HARP at some point because that will die off although it’s been extended.
But I wouldn’t tell you there’s any sort of cap.
I think we should be able to drive it up to more of our natural share in things like deposits and stuff which is more than 10% over time.
So go from 4% a couple of quarters ago up to 10-12%? Yeah but this could take time.
I mean we’ve been about a 0.2% increase in market share each quarter so this is a lot of activity.
But $24 billion of retail production and we’re in the the top two or three and our view is we ought to be able to push that forward.
And so two follow ups on that.
One is on HARP how much of the production right now is HARP and how much HARP is in your footprint your client base that you haven’t done yet? If we look at both combined MHA and HARP that’s just under 50% of the total for the quarter.
And what’s left in your client base to do that you haven’t done yet?  How many more quarters of this do you think you have? I would say generally there was more of it this quarter than we probably would have thought coming into the year.
And we’re hesitant to give an exact number but as Brian referenced I would say overall pipeline in activity as we went through the first quarter continued to be very strong.
I expect that component though is probably at a strong point right now and will come down over the next three or four quarters just because frankly some of that opportunity goes away.
That was part of the transaction value that we got.
But key is if you look at the non-HARP production making homes affordable production you’re seeing that grow at a faster rate.
And you’re just HARPing your current portfolio set?  You’re not going after other people’s?  You have enough to do with your own portfolio? We’ve got enough to do with our own portfolio.
And then just separately on page 6 you go through the regulatory capital.
Can you just remind us what your expectation is for RWAs going forward passive mitigation active mitigation? I’d say generally throughout the quarter with some of the growth that we’ve seen and I assume you’re referring to Basel III? Correct.
As we go through over the next couple of quarters we’d just say what we continue to say which is that with where we are from the DTA perspective is we go forward pretax should be the way that generally we’re creating capital.
And I think as it relates to different mitigation opportunities the biggest thing that we see out there is that as home prices continue to move up and we continue to see the home equity portfolio amortize which has been about $3.5 billion a quarter that there’s a fairly significant tailwind as it relates to reductions in risk-weighted assets there.
As we go forward the runoff of the structured credit portfolio that we have we would expect to accelerate as we go into ’14 ’15 and ’16.
And that will obviously be gone by the end of ’17.
So that’s an opportunity.
And then the third thing I would say is that we continue to work through and you can see we made progress on the private equity portfolio this quarter and we’ll continue to wrap that up.
So the biggest item as we go forward is just going to be the pretax income line.
But I do think that there will continue to be other opportunities to drive that as well.
And the runoff of the structured credit how much is that right now? We’ve not given an exact number that we would expect that to run off but you should assume it’s north of $20 billion of risk-weighted assets.
Today in Q1? That’s correct.
And then the last question is on how you get to the $5 billion ask that you had for CCAR that got approved.
Because with the 9.4% common tier one ratio in Q3 and these RWA mitigation opportunities coming going forward clearly you must know going into it that you were going to be well above the 8.5 FSC minimum that’s out there and that you’d be approaching 10% that kind of high end of the range scenario that people in businesses like yourselves have targeted.
So just wondering how you got to $5 billion and how we think about capital ask going forward? I think there are three different metrics and ways that you get to looking at capital allocation and capital return.
The first is obviously where your ratios are after stress through the CCAR process.
And as you look at the results that we had we ended up just above 6% after our ask which relative to our peers positioned us well.
The second item which as you referenced you moved to Basel III and we feel like we’ve done a very good job on Basel III and to your point are above the minimums above buffers and feel like we’ve done a good job there.
And then the third which is what you’ve heard us talking a lot about is just driving the core earnings as the third component.
And so we’ve balanced all of those three.
And I guess the other thing I’d say is if you look at the ask obviously we’ve got $5 billion that will get returned to the shareholders based on our plans but I don’t think you should also minimize the other $5.5 billion that will go to redeem preferred stock because that preferred stock had coupons between 8 and 8 5/8 percent.
It’s not tax deductible and we’re not replacing it with other preferred stock.
And we’ll move next to the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Your line is open.
A couple of question for you on retail.
You’ve closed I think 262 branches if I’m looking at the numbers correctly over the past year.
Can you tell me how that number looks for the coming year and if there is some “optimal” number of branches that you want to maintain? I think we were clear a few quarters ago when we said we’d do the 750 and I think you can see that number is close to 5 000.
So think about that as 5400-odd getting down to 5 000.
The point was at the time we did an optimization thought process looked at it with the customer behavior and got that number and we’re busily doing that in a very thoughtful way so that we retain a lot of the customers especially on the consolidation side.
And then also obviously as you know we have exited some of the markets and sold community banks where they can get the leverage in the operations that we can’t get in some of those markets.
So the question of what happens next I think is probably a question we take up as we get into ’14 and think about what the customer behavior change has been.
Because we’re seeing a fairly strong change in the behavior of the customers evidenced by the mobile volumes.
And so not only do we have a number of mobile customers it goes up about 10 000 a day and it’s 12.6 it’s also what they do.
So 100 000 checks a day get deposited by people taking pictures of them.
And so that behavioral change we’ve got to keep monitoring.
At the same time we’re building the centers to be these more destination with the FSAs which are brokers in the branch the mortgage loan officers.
And so that configuration I think we’re still testing so I don’t know the exact answer but because the near term is to get the other 400 change that we’re talking about through.
If you step back from it and look year over year the branches are down the customer satisfaction is up and the deposits are up strongly which is a nice combination.
So what I hear you saying is that as you go into 2014 this 5 000 branch number is not written in stone is that correct? Think of us as a retail looking at what the best way to get the most out of the market and serve our customers the best.
And that will always be a subject we’ll talk about.
And we’re making massive investments in our ATM architecture virtual ATMs and the mobile space to make sure that we’re right with our customers.
And my second part to the question would be addressing all these changes in consumer behavior etc.
Has part of this program also been to address some of the service issues that you guys had encountered over the past few years as other stuff took more attention? Absolutely and part of it is continuing to upgrade the systems.
So if you look at our company between 2009 and 2015 we’ll have rewritten all the systems and we’ll bring systems which were more standalone product systems into systems which are consistent with a customer approach.
So the kinds of inquiries you get where we can see a person wants us to not [unintelligible] and those are going away.
Frankly getting out of the multiple deposit systems helps.
And so our complaints are down a lot.
Our attrition is way down.
And so we’re seeing the benefits of this as we go through it.
But absolutely this is all geared at maintaining the customer satisfaction posture which is up year over year and driving it to places we haven’t driven before honestly based on all the tools we have.
Bruce the stock is down roughly about 3% in the market right now and there was some disappointment with the headline number.
But all the ingredients of the quarter look pretty good.
Was it your sense that the the $900 million in seasonal costs was built into most estimates?  Or was this a point of variance do you think? I think they are probably two things.
I think the $900 built into the estimates which we have every period as we look out there I think it was in some not in others.
So I don’t think there was uniformity on that?  And then I think the other item that was out there as we look at a lot of the analysts they look at core they don’t include any litigation number and obviously there was a $900 million litigation number.
We obviously need that to come down but what I mentioned to Meredith’s question I think getting this class action and shrinking the tail risk with respect to our mortgage backed security litigation tail risk was a significant item for us and we were able to get through that this quarter being generally in line with what you all had expected.
We’ll go next to the line of Eric Wasserstrom with SunTrust Robinson.
Your line is open.
I just want to circle back to the litigation issues for a moment.
Could you just help me understand what precisely at the upcoming hearing on the 30th is being debated?  Is it simply the amount of the settlement?  Or is it more the actual legitimacy of the process by which the settlement was derived? It’s hard for us to predict what’s going to happen on the 30th.
We’re obviously not a part of this.
This is Bank of New York Mellon in their capacity as trustee.
And obviously the standard and what needs to be worked through is did they go through and were they prudent and did they follow a process to getting to the point to say that this settlement made sense for investors.
And so that will be the general topic.
We’re not going to predict what exactly happens on the 30th.
Besides we obviously wouldn’t have entered into the settlement if we didn’t think that there was a basis for it.
And I’m certainly not asking you to anticipate an outcome I just want to make sure it’s not as narrow as the monetary settlement.
It’s the broader issue of whether [Boney] followed the appropriate procedures in terms of determining a settlement.
Is that correct? That’s correct.
We’ll go next to the line of David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is open.
Just another litigation question.
Is it fair to assume that the Countrywide RMBS that were included in the settlement that you announced this morning are all included in the securities that were the subject of the settlement of the Gibbs &amp; Bruns and Bank of New York as trustee process? There is clearly a significant overlap.
The people that were part of the settlement today tended to be people that would have been original purchasers of the securities.
With respect to Gibbs &amp; Bruns they could have either been original purchasers or subsequent purchasers but there is overlap.
And as we’ve said in the release that the people that were part of the settlement today to the extent that Gibbs &amp; Bruns gets approved they will receive whatever they would have otherwise received as part of Gibbs &amp; Bruns.
But looked at from the perspective of the Countrywide securities issues would all of the ones in today’s settlement be included in the Bank of New York as trustee settlement? Yes because as we said in the release this covers 80% of the Countrywide securities of which Gibbs &amp; Bruns was obviously a very significant piece.
So you’re absolutely correct in that.
And then I don’t know if there’s anything you can say on this but any prospective statement about the settlement or possible timing of resolution for the various alphabet soup of remaining litigation MBIA FHFA and AIG? No there’s really nothing that we would say there.
I think I would just reiterate though that as you look at the component of what we settled today from a securities litigation perspective as it relates to current outstanding amount as well as what was originally underwritten it’s obviously a significant piece of that.
We continue to want to resolve and get these legacy issues put behind us.
At the same time between the capital that we’ve built and the number of them that we’ve put behind us it has to make sense for the shareholders.
We’ll go next to the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Just like on the trusts that were outside of the Bank of New York you did provide on a similar basis.
Is there anything you could say about the other lawsuits as to whether there’s a provision that’s been in there for them based upon some of the experience in the other cases? I’m not sure what you’re talking about.
You’ve had experience with some of the monolines.
I don’t know if it’s like a facts and circumstances when you think about MBIA.
How do you think about whether there’s been a provision there?  And the same thing for the FHFA lawsuits?  Are there elements of some of the others that cause you to have had some degree of provisioning for them?  Or would that only happen once those get advanced? They’re all in litigation reserves which are not on that page.
Those are just the rep and warranty reserves.
The monolines the [FHFA] and those are in litigation reserves because the [FHFA] and AIG are RMBS cases.
Right but the question is should we think about there having been a component of them or is that all going to be pending? I want to make sure I understand the question.
As you go through the litigation reserves we have reserves for those litigation items that we have the basis to reserve.
To the extent that we don’t have the basis to reserve we have a range of possible loss.
So as it relates to these items those are the two ways that we work through the reserves.
And the litigation reserves as we’ve said before are where we house reserves for litigation matters as well as as I said the monolines reside within that litigation bucket as well because we’re in litigation with them.
And then obviously as you move to the rep and warrant reserve we’ve got the actual reserves and then we’ve also disclosed the range of possible loss for those items that we don’t have the basis to reserve.
Okay thanks.
I’ll take that offline.
Just a second question with respect to the mortgage business and the gain on sale the primary secondary spread did end the quarter lower than where it was on average.
Talk a little bit about how you see that gain on sale trending into Q2 and as we go forward.
I would say that if we look at where we ended the quarter relative to where we started I would say that it feels at this point that the spreads have somewhat settled out.
But obviously those spreads are going to be a function of activity versus capacity and we’ll have to see how that unfolds over the quarter.
We’ve obviously built up and as Brian referenced the capacity to do what we need to do for our customers.
And we’ll just need to see where those margins go throughout the quarter.
But at this point there was obviously a step down in margins during the first quarter.
It feels to some extent as if that’s leveled out but we’ll have to see how it plays out over the second quarter.
We’ll go next to the line of Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Just a quick question in terms of the deposit costs.
You’ve got your domestic deposit costs down to sub-20 basis points.
You’ve got similar higher costs outside the U.S.
although obviously much smaller balances.
How are you thinking about being able to reduce the non-U.S.
deposit costs particularly the time deposit categories over the next six to 12 months.
You’re right the international component is obviously a very small component.
Those are large.
They’re almost exclusively either wholesale deposits that are out there.
I’m not sure you’re going to see much more movement in that.
I think to your earlier question the majority of the costs of the deposits are those housed in the U.S.
and you can see that as we build up the core deposits the amount of time deposits that we have here in the U.S.
we would expect those to continue to come down.
And as those come down all other things being equal you’d expect the cost of domestic deposits continue to move down.
And a bigger picture question on OLA.
You’ve got about $134 billion of long term debt at Bank of America Corporation as of the end of the year an additional $90 billion of Merrill Lynch debt.
When you’re thinking about OLA do you think about potentially explicitly agreeing to support the Merrill Lynch debt?  Does that help you at all under OLA?  Or are you planning on just maintaining the status quo on that basis? I think as I said before the OLA rules continue to evolve.
If you look out at our annual filings that we’ve put out there we’ve said that we’re looking at does it make sense to have ML and Co merged into BAC.
That’s ongoing work that continues.
We believe ultimately as the Merrill debt runs off and to the extent there’s reissuance it’s at the Bank of America level.
So we pick up that benefit.
And like I said as we look at any ratio and as we consider the different rules it feels like we’ll have more than enough in total parent company debt relative to risk-weighted assets.
And then just one final question.
You mentioned the time to require funding has come down a little bit from the end of last year.
And you intend on maintaining that above two years.
Should we think about that coming down closer to 24 months over the next six to 12 months?  Or is it too early to tell? When you mentioned it came down in the quarter realize that one of the reasons why it came down is that we’ve included the $5.5 billion of preferred redemptions in the time to require funding.
That largely drove that.
But to your question it’s a good one.
We would expect over time that the amount of parent company liquidity that we have would tend to come down over time.
As we get through the ’13 and ’14 maturities we still believe we can bring the parent company liquidity down bring the cost of it down and you’re right we will keep time to required funding at at least two years.
Initially given we work through maturities that will stay elevated in the high 20s 30.
But the goal is to obviously flatten out the maturities and have that become more in the two-year area which is consistent with what we’ve been saying for some time.
We’ll go next to the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Your line is open.
I had a question on the litigation but before we go there there’s an article saying that Brian you are leading a revenue push at the company.
And I was wondering if this is a tweak a strategic change and as far as revenue push starting from the top is that because of what Bank of America is not doing or is it because of the weaker than expected environment or both? We have been driving the company and so there’s been two basic pieces of strategy.
One is to continue to push the legacy issues and costs out of the company and at the same time take the company and drive the underlying business metrics.
So that’s been going on.
And as we clean up more of the former then the focus of the company is on the latter.
And involved in the latter in other words driving the core company was that we had say in credit card a big book of business that we were running off.
We’re getting towards the end of that or less impact quarter to quarter and now we’ve got to grow the credit card business.
This quarter I think we did 900 000-plus credit cards which is the highest amount we’ve done in the quarters since 2008 or something like that.
And 70% of those are through the branch structure and through the preferred business and things like that.
So the goal is to continue to drive this company and get the value of the combination of all the pieces of the business through it.
It’s not a new push.
It’s just as the other issues go away this is what the team has to be focused on.
So we’re seeing great progress in some of the businesses and look at the GWIM business and look at the connectivity to the GWIM business.
We literally have millions of referrals that go between businesses a year.
We goal those at 30-50% increases every year and we see that number being hit and is tracked in every single market 100-plus markets with about 20 different pieces of business flows between businesses tracked that we track and monitored on a monthly basis.
It’s all geared to just driving the value of the franchise and frankly delivering to customers the entire franchise.
And so it appears in all the businesses whether it’s in the commercial business bringing our 401k platform which is new to the Bank of America structure since Merrill came in.
And we just see wins in that happening every day.
It is bringing the capital markets expertise deeper into our middle market business.
It’s bringing the personal side of the wealth management business to our business entrepreneurs.
It’s all those things.
And so new is a word that probably overstresses it.
It’s just what we have to do to drive the revenue and continue to work the expenses to produce the bottom line we need.
So you’re farther along with the cleanup just more external focus? And one of the tough things is we have 260 000 people in this company and a lot of them have been focused on this.
And it’s just their time to shine.
And the rest of what Bruce and I have been working on and others restructuring balancing getting the capital up getting liquidity legacy issues is starting to fade away.
And back to the litigation the 10-K and some 10-Qs say that if the courts disagree with the argument of loss causation then the reserves may need to go up.
And that has not taken place.
Your range of possible loss is about the same.
So I’m trying to reconcile those two thoughts.
Because it seems as though with Assured versus Flagstar loss causation was shot down there’s some other comments in the court.
So how do I reconcile what happened with Flagstar some other court comments that shoot down loss causation with the comment in your 10-K? I’m not going to drill into the Flagstar case but I want to be clear Flagstar gave a borrower fraud reference and that was part of that case which is not something we’ve done.
But at a high level Mike that’s correct.
It’s in the disclosure.
And as I said in my earlier comments within the litigation reserve during the quarter we reassess those every quarter and we did provide within the litigation expense some element of cost with respect to monolines during the quarter.
And the big question here is what happens if the $8.5 billion settlement doesn’t go through.
And I asked Bank of New York that question this morning and the answer from Bank of New York is well it’s up to the courts to decide.
But what if the courts decide the $8.5 billion agreement does not go through?  What would be the impact on your reserves? The court is not opining on a number.
They’re either opining on approving or not approving.
And obviously if they don’t approve we’ve set up reserves within the Countrywide securities assuming that every trust gets to the 25% threshold.
And so obviously if it doesn’t get approved this will revert back to going individual trust by trust and working through it.
But I don’t think it’s appropriate to comment on reserves on something that is not going to happen.
You have $8.5 billion in reserves for the $8.5 billion settlement and that may change but you’ll wait and see what happens on May 30.
That’s correct and I think the other important thing is when we set up the $8.5 billion to the Countrywide we also used that same methodology with respect to bank issued securitization rep and warrant to set up reserves based on the same methodology across the company.
We’ll take our final question from the line of Paul Miller from FBR.
Your line is open.
This is actually Thomas [Latourneau] on behalf of Paul.
I have a quick follow up and I just want to make sure I heard you guys right.
Did you say that 50% of your total originations were HARP?  And if so do you think you can replace that with other normal retail volume if HARP starts to dissipate in the back half of the year? The 50% was both MHA as well as HARP.
And in fact if you think about it year over year the growth rate of those activities has been a strong growth rate.
And that’s the challenge going forward is just how we keep originating a broader product set?  But right now that is an opportunity which is here and near and it goes away over time.
But the rest of the production continues to grow at a fast pace also.
And one additional question.
Can you tell me what type of products you’re actually portfolioing right now? Within the consumer mortgage business? Yes.
Largely nonconforming.
What we want to do is provide the mortgage product and balance sheet for that which there isn’t another alternative and we’re pressing hard within the different businesses.
The mortgage activity within the wealth management business this quarter was very strong as well as within the [mass affluent] client space.
So that’s largely the focus.
Just on the underwriting of those though you should rest assured that the underwriting is consistent with very strong underwritings going on in the industry in total right now.
Okay I think we’re through the questions.
So once again thanks for joining us this morning and we’ll be talking with you next quarter.
Welcome to today’s program.
[Operator instructions.] It’s now my pleasure to turn the program over to Lee McEntire.
Please begin sir.
Good morning to those on the phone or joining us by webcast.
Before Bruce Thompson and Brian Moynihan begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation available at bankofamerica.com does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
And please see our press release and SEC documents for further information.
With that let me turn it over to our CEO Brian Monynihan.
Thank you Lee.
Good morning everyone and just to start off let me remind you of what our focus is and has been for some time: on capital generation on managing our risk on continuing to reduce our costs and on addressing the legacy issues so that we can drive our growth strategy by simply doing more with our customers and clients.
This quarter shows very clearly how the focus is paying off as we earned $4 billion.
We built our company over the last several quarters to maintain stability and we’ll continue to make progress to withstand the volatility that we saw in part again this quarter while delivering for our customers and shareholders.
And that came true even as mortgage demand has decreased we still had a 40% increase in retail production over last year and an increase over the last quarter.
Even as interest rates rose we were able to add to our capital ratios.
And keep in mind with our trillion-dollar deposit book rising rates will continue to increase the value of those over time.
We have leading capabilities in the areas where our customers want us to be.
We do more business with them and we’re gaining momentum across every customer group.
And while we’re doing that our balance sheet continues to strengthen our capital ratio has again moved higher and just as importantly we’ve begun the process of returning capital to our shareholders.
Our credit quality continues to improve.
Expenses are down by $1 billion from a year ago.
LAS or Legacy Asset Servicing expenses excluding our litigation are down by nearly $800 million on a quarterly basis from the peak only a couple of quarters ago and are ahead of our projections.
Our loans and our deposits continue to grow.
All the businesses produced solid stable revenues in the focus areas where we are growing that grew their revenues.
And we’re seeing growing activity levels across all our customer and client groups.
So as we look forward we’re closely following recent regulatory proposals around capital and leverage just as you are.
Obviously we have already taken significant steps in our company to build our current strong levels of capital and liquidity and we maintain a comfort level here that Bruce will take you through the numbers later.
The good news in all this is that we’re seeing in our business as reflected in our improved economy.
The economy continues to improve across all areas.
That benefits our company across multiple fronts but most importantly with an improving economy it strengthens and creates opportunity for the people companies and investors that we serve and that opportunity will continue to provide opportunity for us to capture and to connect all our capabilities to help those that we serve realize their financial goals.
With that let me turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start on slide five of our presentation materials.
Total revenues for the quarter were very solid at $22.9 billion and we earned $4 billion or $0.32 per diluted share which is up significantly both from the first quarter of this year as well as the comparable period in 2012.
We made significant progress in all of our primary businesses this quarter and on a linked quarter basis we had growth in four out of the five businesses.
Consumer activity levels were solid as mortgage production increased credit card loan balances stabilized and both deposits and brokerage flows increased from the previous quarter.
Global wealth and investment management reported another quarter of record revenues as well as earnings.
Global banking revenue showed continue strength driven by increased lending in both our commercial as well as our corporate bank and investment banking performance remained strong and close to record levels.
Total noninterest expense of $16 billion represented a significant improvement in expenses both relative to the first quarter of this year as well as the comparable quarter in 2012 and asset quality improved significantly as our provision expense declined to $1.2 billion this quarter.
On slide six we give some balance sheet highlights.
First the overall size of the balance sheet came down this quarter to about $2.125 trillion.
Importantly customer activity remained strong with loans led by our commercial loans up $10 billion.
Period end deposits were down driven by seasonality associated with tax payments.
However our average deposits did experience modest growth.
And also call out on the page the tangible book value per share remained relatively flat from the first quarter of this year.
That’s significant in the context of our $4 billion of earnings largely offset the negative after-tax impact from accumulated other comprehensive income driven by the increase in rates that we saw during the quarter.
Also helping our tangible book value per share in the quarter was the return of roughly $1 billion of capital through the repurchase of 80 million common shares at a price below tangible book value.
And as we look forward we have an additional $4 billion available for common share repurchases.
The combination of the earnings that I discussed on slide five as well as the work that we did on our balance sheet led to a return on tangible common equity of just under 10% for the quarter and a return on average assets of 74 basis points.
On slide 7 we walk through some of the different regulatory capital ratios as far as where we ended up at the end of the second quarter.
If we start with Basel 1 tier one common ratio we ended the quarter at 10.83% up 34 basis points from the first quarter of this year and 45 basis points on a pro forma basis at the end of 2012.
Moving to Basel III fully phased in basis under the advanced approach and based on final rules our tier one common ratio was 9.6% showing progress from the first quarter of ’13 despite a 32 basis point negative impact from the change in OCI during the quarter.
Risk-weighted assets under Basel III were $1.31 trillion or $43 billion lower than the first quarter of ’13 due to an improvement in both the composition as well as the overall credit quality on the books.
If we move to the proposed supplementary U.S.
leverage ratio requirement which will kick in at the beginning of 2018 our preliminary analysis indicates that at the holding company our leverage ratio for the second quarter of 2013 was in the range of 4.9% to 5% which positions us very well relative to the 5% minimum.
If we look at our primary bank subsidiaries which we have two BANA our primary banking subsidiary and FIA our card subsidiary during the second quarter of 2013 both of those were in excess of the 6% proposed minimum.
So net-net from a regulatory capital perspective we feel like we’ve made very good progress across all of the different measures that will be required to operate within.
On page eight funding and liquidity you can see long term debt during the quarter declined $18 billion as maturities outpaced issuances during the quarter.
Our global excess liquidity sources did decline during the quarter.
It was expected as a result of our reductions in the long term debt footprint our preferred stock redemptions as well as the seasonal deposit outflows that I referenced earlier from tax payments.
At the parent company liquidity remains very strong at $95 billion due to capital returns from our subsidiaries during the quarter.
Time to required funding increased to 32 months up from 29 months in the first quarter of ’13 and well above our target of approximately 24 months.
And as we’ve indicated before over the next four to six quarters we will look to move that time to funding towards the 24 months as we repay the upcoming debt maturities in 2013 and 2014.
On net interest income if you look at slide 9 net interest income on an FTE basis was $10.8 billion down just about 1% from the first quarter of 2013.
If you adjust our net interest income for market-related items it was $10.4 billion which was less than $100 million below our guidance as our trading-related net interest income declined as a result of reduced balance sheet utilization in our global markets business during the last month of the quarter.
On the positive side we benefited during the quarter from lower long term debt higher levels of commercial loan balances as well as one additional day of interest in the second quarter relates to the first.
On the flipside in addition to the negative impact of lower asset balances on the trading books we also had slightly lower consumer loan balances and yields driven by our runoff portfolios.
As we came into the second quarter of 2013 our interest rate sensitivity as we disclosed in the first quarter 10-Q estimated a $1.6 billion annual benefit to net interest income from a 100 basis point instantaneous [long end] steepening if rates remained at that level.
During the second quarter the 10-year rate did increase by more than 60 basis points and we realized $300 million of that benefit immediately through the impact on FAS 91.
We expect to realize the balance of the benefit approximately $700 million over the course of the next 12 months.
As a result of those different factors we do expect net interest income excluding any market related impacts to build off of the second quarter of 2013’s $10.4 billion adjusted level as we move forward during the balance of 2013 and into 2014.
If you look at the work that we did on expenses on slide 10 total expenses were down significantly on both a linked quarter as well as a year over year basis as we continued to deliver on the expense reductions that we discussed within our legacy assets and servicing area as well as the ongoing cost savings from our new BAC initiatives that we’re implementing in the other businesses that we operate.
Our number of full-time equivalent employees in the quarter ended at just over 257 000 which was down 2% from the first quarter of 2013 and almost 7% from the comparable period a year ago.
Total expenses did decline $3.5 billion from the first quarter of ’13 as we benefited from a $1.7 billion decline in litigation.
Our LAS expenses ex-litigation were down roughly another $250 million.
Our retirement eligible costs which we only incur during the first quarter of each year were down $900 million and all other expenses were down approximately $600 million.
As we look at the progress that we make on our LAS expenses from the fourth quarter of 2012 when they peaked at $3.1 billion we are now down approximately $800 million from that peak.
And we did all of that within the last two quarters.
As a result we previously had said that our LAS expenses ex-litigation would be approximately $2.1 billion by the end of 2013 meaning in the fourth quarter of 2013 and with the progress that we’ve made we now believe our fourth quarter LAS expenses will be below $2 billion in the fourth quarter of ’13.
And keep in mind that as we work through these the realization of these savings can be somewhat lumpy.
In addition to our LAS expenses the $600 million improvement in all other cost was driven primarily by lowering incentive compensation costs during the quarter as well as our new BAC efforts.
We remain on track to achieve $1.5 billion of new BAC quarterly savings by the fourth quarter of 2013.
On slide 11 we give some information on the trends from an asset quality perspective and as you can see credit quality once again improved significantly during the quarter.
Net chargeoffs declined to $2.1 billion an improvement of 16% on a linked quarter basis and 42% relative to the second quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter of 2013 net loss rate of 94 basis points is the first time that we’ve been below 100 basis points since 2006.
Given the improving trend in delinquencies and other metrics we now expect our net chargeoffs will come in below $2 billion in the third quarter of 2013.
Provision expense of $1.2 billion this quarter does reflect a reserve reduction of approximately $900 million reflecting improving credit trends.
The allowance coverage remains strong and given the pace of improvement in credit quality we do anticipate continued reserve releases particularly in our consumer real estate portfolios.
Let’s now move to a discussion of the performance within our lines of business on slide 12.
Before we go through the results I do want to highlight a technical change that this quarter we did move our direct and indirect auto and other specialty lending into the CPB business from global banking given that it more closely connects with consumer lending activity.
This book does include $37 billion of loans and we have adjusted prior periods to have this data be comparable.
Earnings in the business were relatively stable compared to the first quarter of ’13 and up 15% from the prior year driven by both expense improvements as well as lower credit costs.
We do continue to do more business with our core customers.
Our average deposits were up almost $9 billion from the first quarter of ’13 excluding the transfers that we had from the wealth management business.
Loans declined a modest 1% as a decline in our credit cards was mitigated by our balance growth in both small business as well as auto lending.
There’s been a lot of discussion on our U.S.
credit card balances.
Those balances appear to have stabilized and at the end of the second quarter were at $90.5 billion up from $90 billion at the end of the first quarter of this year.
Our card issuance remains strong in the second quarter and is at its highest level since 2008.
U.S.
consumer credit card retail spend for average active account was up 9% from the same quarter a year ago.
We continue to optimize our delivery network and usage within the mobile channel continues to increase.
And lastly expense levels reflect both the benefits of the network optimization as well as the investments to build out our specialty sales force.
If we move to consumer real estate services on slide 13 we address home loans one of the two businesses within our CRES segment.
First mortgage retail originations were $25 billion and were up 6% from the first quarter and 41% compared with retail originations in the year ago period.
Our market share in the retail mortgage space improved.
We broke through 5% versus below 4% just over a year ago.
We do anticipate some slowdown in mortgage production resulting from recent increases in interest rate and that is seen by the 5% reduction in our mortgage origination pipeline at the end of June relative to what we had seen at the end of March this year.
While production has experienced a nice trajectory over the last year we like the industry have experienced compression on margins that affects revenue.
While these margins do remain high relative to historical periods the compression is most notable when you look at our year over year production revenue.
We continued to add mortgage loan officers during the second quarter primarily in the banking centers as well as other employees in our sales and fulfillment area in order to deliver a first class mortgage experience for our customers.
These actions did contribute to higher expenses in the quarter.
On slide 14 we moved to legacy assets and servicing which still did report a loss in the quarter but showed significant improvement from the first quarter which included the MBIA and RMBS litigation settlements as the reduction in expenses more than offset a decline in the revenues.
Revenues were negatively impacted by a servicing revenue decline of $175 million as the servicing portfolio declined 17% and we had less favorable MSR hedge performance.
That was partially offset by higher sales volume of loans that returned to performing status.
As you look at LAS several key takeaways from this slide.
The first is our level of 60-plus day delinquent loans which is one of the primary drivers of the elevated cost dropped below 500 000 units at the end of June a 27% decline from the results at the end of the first quarter of ’13.
Recall our number of 60-plus day delinquent loans peaked at almost 1.4 million units at the end of 2010.
Looking ahead we now expect our amount of 60-plus day delinquent loans to come down further than we originally expected to below 375 000 units by the end of 2013.
As we continue to reduce these loans the number of employees and contractors will come down and you can see that by the decrease of 5 000 people during this quarter.
Expenses ex-litigation once again were down roughly $250 million from the first quarter to $2.3 billion.
Global wealth and investment management on slide 15 had a great quarter with our results once again reflecting records in revenues earnings as well as pretax margin.
Year over year revenue increased 10% and net income grew by 38%.
Our second quarter pretax margin of about 28% benefited from strong revenue performance as well as improved credit costs during the quarter.
Long term AUM flows were solid at nearly $80 billion in the quarter more than double the flows that we saw in the prior year ago period.
Ending loan balances grew $5 billion in the quarter to record levels while ending deposits declined $5 billion due to the seasonality of tax payments.
Global banking on slide 16 experienced strong loan growth and slightly higher investment banking fees compared to the first quarter of 2013 both of which helped drive $1.3 billion in net income and a 22% return on allocated equity.
The investment banking strength kept fees near record levels and we retained our second place ranking in net investment banking fees.
Within the investment bank underwriting fees continued the momentum from near record levels during the first quarter of ’13 and were up 53% from the second quarter of 2012.
Equity underwriting fees grew 10% relative to the first quarter of ’13 and up 86% from the comparable year ago period due to the strong global IPO market as well as our focus on continuing to grow capabilities within this space.
On the balance sheet average loans increased by almost $12 billion from the first quarter driven by growth in both corporate C&amp;I as well as commercial real estate.
As you look at that loan growth I think it’s important to note the strong diversity in lending to our global customer base as the U.S.
represented approximately 40% of the growth with the balance outside the U.S.
We switch to global markets on slide 17.
We earned roughly $1 billion during the quarter on revenue of $4.2 billion which is up significantly from the second quarter of 2012 results but down from the first quarter of ’13.
The business during the second quarter generated a 13% return on allocated equity.
Sales and trading revenue if we back out DVA was $3.5 billion solidly above our 2012 results.
Fixed sales and trading was down versus the second quarter of ’12 as well as the first quarter of ’13 given the rate volatility and spread widening that we saw during the last month of the quarter.
Equity sales and trading had a very strong quarter actually the best that we’ve seen since the first quarter of 2011.
Results ex-DVA were up 53% from the second quarter of 2012 and 4% over the first quarter of ’13 as we continued to gain market share and cash equities improved our performance in equity derivatives and had higher client balances in our financing area.
If you look at the balance sheet trading asset levels did decline as we reduced risk during the end of the second quarter.
Average VAR at a 99% confidence level was $69 million in the quarter down from $80 million in the first quarter of last year.
On slide 18 we walk you through the results of our all other segment which includes global principal investments our non-U.S.
consumer card business our discretionary portfolio associated with interest rate risk management insurance as well as our international wealth management area.
Gains on the sale of debt securities were $452 million in the second quarter of ’13 compared to $67 million in the first quarter and $354 million in the second quarter of 2012.
That coupled with the prior quarter costs for retirement eligible compensation lower litigation expense higher equity investment income and lower provision for credit losses due primarily to the improvement in the residential mortgage portfolio drove the significant improvement in earnings in this segment compared to both the first quarter of this year and the prior year ago period.
Before we leave this slide two things I would note for modeling purposes as it relates to preferred dividends and taxes.
The first preferred dividends we expect our preferred dividends to drop from $441 million this quarter to about $280 million in the third quarter and then settle in around $260 million per quarter as we move forward.
These declines are the result of the reduction of the $5.5 billion of preferred stock this quarter.
If we move to taxes the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27%.
As we look out during the balance of the year we would expect the rate to be approximately 30% plus or minus any unusual items like the U.K.
tax rate reduction.
As we’ve disclosed previously this year’s expected U.K.
corporate income tax rate is likely to be reduced by 3% and will be enacted in the third quarter of this year.
As a result for modeling purposes you should include a charge of approximately $1.1 billion associated with the writedown of our U.K.
deferred tax assets in the third quarter of this year.
But keep in mind given where we are from a DTA disallowance position this will not impact our Basel I or Basel III capital ratios.
And before we wrap up and take questions I’d like to leave you with a couple of thoughts about the second quarter performance.
We achieved many of the objectives that we laid out for the quarter.
Revenue was solid costs came down significantly credit continued to improve and our capital ratios remained strong and improved despite the change in both OCI as well as the initiation of our share repurchase program during the quarter.
The higher rate environment to the extent it stays with us allows us to improve our net interest income going forward and we plan to continue to drive forward execute on our strategy and deliver on the earnings capability of our company.
And with that operator we’ll go ahead and open it up for questions.
[Operator instructions.] We’ll go first to the site of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
A couple of questions on improving RWAs.
You mentioned that credit helped drive the RWAs down a little bit.
Could you give a little bit more color on how much of the HPI improvement has already come through the RWAs? Is there any more to come from what’s happened so far in your 3Q and 4Q outlook? When we referenced the improving credit quality you can look at it in three different buckets.
The first which you’ve already pointed out clearly HPI under Basel III as home prices go up there’s benefit to that.
And that improvement accounted for roughly a third of the improvement we saw during the quarter.
The other two things that we benefited from was at the end of the quarter we had less risk on the books so that obviously the reduction in risk provided some benefit.
And then third the overall credit quality of the wholesale book that we had seen also improved.
So within that credit quality characterization it was those three things.
As we look forward any further improvement that we have with respect to risk-weighted assets is going to be a function of home prices.
Obviously the [prints] that we’ve seen during this quarter continue to be strong and to the extent that the improvement continues we would expect to benefit from that.
The other thing that is noteworthy and you see this is that we do continue to run off a fair bit of legacy positions within the consumer mortgage portfolio and you saw that the home equity lines of credit reduced by about another $3.5 billion during the quarter and that obviously provides some benefit as well.
And then a follow up on your comment regarding the outlook for NII where you indicated that NII excluding market related items could build from the $10.4 billion at 2Q ’13.
Could you describe how you’re thinking about that? I’ve had a lot of conversations over the last quarter about what you put in your Q which is a 100 basis point back up in rates meaningful increase in EPS.
That’s got to come more from reinvesting the cash flow of the securities portfolio.
Can you give us a sense of how you drive higher NII? Well in the Q we put out two different numbers.
The first is the 100 basis point parallel shift which at the end of the first quarter I believe we said was either $3.6 billion or $3.7 billion and then we had the steepening where just long rates went up and we had had the $1.6 billion that I referenced.
Obviously as we look at net interest income in the future we’ve not seen a parallel shift at this point we’ve just seen a steepening.
And that’s why in my comments I referenced the $1.6 billion.
But as we look forward and look forward from a net interest income perspective to the extent that long end rates are higher and we are investing excess liquidity at the company we will benefit from being able to invest at higher rates.
The other two items that we have that will benefit net interest income going forward is we do continue to take down the debt footprint.
And you can see that commercial loan balances are moving up as well.
And we’d expect the combination of those things to more than offset some of the declines in both balances and yields we’ve seen on the consumer side.
If you think about sort of over the last several quarters we’ve been fighting the runoff portfolios.
And the impact of those going forward continues to mitigate.
So if you look at some of the information the card balance is actually growing quarter to quarter whether even the home equities the size of the runoff portfolio in mortgage is lower.
You assume those had higher yields in the general case so the stuff coming out and replacing now helps replace those yields and is better in securities.
So that gives us confidence that we’re starting to see the growth that helps drive the core NIM up.
And would you be looking to shift some of the liquidity pool into securities? Obviously it would be longer duration on the liquidity pool.
As we’ve always said the first places we continue to build liquidity that we’re looking to place it is within the lines of business to fund loan growth from those customers.
And if you look at this quarter and you look at the balance sheet you saw some of that in that our overall securities balances I believe were down about $18 billion whereas our average overall loans were up.
So clearly the lines of business to the extent that we continue to originate well-structured well-priced loans that return the way that we’d like that’s where the liquidity is going to go first.
The excess liquidity is invested and in this environment we continue to be very mindful of the OCI risk and will manage with the mindset of mitigating that risk.
And then just lastly on the [unintelligible] pretax margin pretty strong number this quarter.
And I know last quarter you called out some one-timers.
Were there any one-timers in that this quarter? The only one-timer that I think jumps out is if you look at it you can see that we actually had a negative provision of about $15 million for the quarter.
A more normalized provision number within that business is probably $25 million to $50 million but not unlike the balance of our consumer real estate portfolio the consumer lending with respect to mortgages in that segment benefits from the increase home prices we’ve seen.
That’s probably the one anomaly that [unintelligible]’s mentioning.
John Thiel and David Darnell John runs the business along with Keith Banks at U.S.
Trust have done a good job.
If you look at the [unintelligible] year over year I think there’s a 10% increase in expenses.
Went up 3% in the business which as you know has high sensitivity to compensation increases.
So they just have been doing all the hard work and the new BAC work like everybody else.
And so as the markets rose they’ve benefited dramatically from it.
And so what’s the targeted pretax margin there? Over time as we look at where we are and I want to highlight over time we think that can get to a margin of 30%.
But at the same time as you’ve accurately called out we were at 28% this quarter and we did have some benefit from the provision line.
Over time includes the higher interest rate environment? Yes.
But they’ve got a lot of loans deposits and lending in there too that benefits those rates.
We’ll go next to the site of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Within fixed income trading businesses obviously June proved to be a tough month I think for a lot of folks and it seemed like the trends were maybe a little bit weaker than we’re seeing elsewhere when we factor in some of the charges you had in the first quarter.
A couple of things on the fixed income business.
Let’s look at it year over year because this business probably has the most seasonality with respect to the first quarter.
If you look at year over year and if you looked within the businesses within both the rates and currencies area as well as the different credit trading areas which we look at investment grade high yield as well as our loan sales and trading the performance year over year was actually pretty good.
Where we had weakness in the second quarter of this year is in three areas.
The first is that we continue to run off the structured credit trading book and you had a pretty significant decline during the second quarter of ’13 relative to the prior year from the continued runoff of that book.
From a P&amp;L perspective it’s largely runoff at this point so we’re not going to have to discuss that much going forward.
The other two areas on a relative basis that were weaker we have a very significant business that’s got number one market shares in the municipal finance space and if you look at the prices in the spread widening it was very dramatic during the month of June in the muni space.
That negatively affected us.
And then in the mortgage space obviously the market widened out significantly there and we had some lumpy items in the second quarter of 2012 as well.
So I think as you look at the quarter and you look at the fixed income business once again we run it as a holistic business between new issue and sales and trading.
The new issue business had a great quarter.
Those areas where the markets were good rates and currencies credit trading across the board actually performed pretty well in the three areas that I mentioned.
One because it’s running off and two given the market dynamics didn’t perform as well as we would have expected.
So just as we think about [unintelligible] going forward maybe a little bit of a lower run rate as you ran down the structural trading but also hopefully less volatility given that.
I think that’s fair.
And just to give you a sense the structured credit trading book this quarter was less than $100 million so as you look at the go forward basis As you look at slide 17 what Tom Montag and team have been able to do is to continue to take advantage of opportunities.
Of the equities business last year we were still a work in progress but they have rebuilt that business and it’s doing well.
The fixed income Bruce just ran you through that.
But look at the ability to drive the profit by getting the expenses lined up well.
So on a year over year basis the profit increased by $460 million because we were able to maintain expense discipline at the same time as the revenue went up.
And so I think the key there is that we’re trying to manage that business in the context of who we are as an entire company in the markets business and Tom and team continue to drive where the opportunities are and pick a side.
I think they had a very good quarter but when you step back and look at it holistically their ability quarter after quarter to drive a good return on capital even in more volatile spaces where we got obviously hit a little bit and [unintelligible] in the latter part of the quarter is very solid.
We do see good core trends in the [high] banking fees and of course the equities business you mentioned.
And just separately if we look at loan loss provision expense going forward you gave us some components of chargeoffs and then just kind of big picture some more reserve release.
But any thoughts on just the specific level of provision expense going forward? I think you had been targeting 1.8 to 2.2 which obviously you broke through that now for a couple of quarters.
I think it’s a good question.
What I would point to is that credit quality across the board and particularly as you look at early stage delinquencies as well as what we’re seeing as we move some of the consumer real estate out is quite strong.
As we’ve said we think the chargeoff number will come below $2 billion in the third quarter.
And as you look at the reserve release the reserve release this quarter roughly 650 of it was from core reserves and roughly 250 of it was from PCI.
We can’t project PCI but I think if you look at the core 650 and take the chargeoff guidance that we’ve given absent any change in home prices you get a sense as to where we’re trending.
We’ll go next to the site of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
I was wondering if you had any sense of where we might think of legal expense going forward.
It came down a lot this quarter.
You got some things behind you.
How should we think of that number going forward? As we look at legal expense it’s always a little bit difficult to predict but the just under $500 million that we saw this quarter it’s clearly at an elevated level from what we’d expect long term.
At the same time within the $500 million there was nothing lumpy from the quarter.
So I always hesitate to say too much on that because it is lumpy but the $500 million number as it relates to a base level at least what we can tell in the near term is probably not a bad level to keep.
And putting expenses all together the $16 billion is probably a pretty good jumping off point for us to think going forward starting in the third quarter? That’s correct.
And then on the quarterly LAS trend you mentioned getting below $2 billion by the end of this year.
Any thoughts on what your destination might be by the end of 2014? Ultimately you want to get that number down to $500 million right? We previously said we’d get a billion out this year and a billion in 2014.
We will be at a lower level at the end of ’13 as we’ve said today and I don’t think it’s unreasonable to think we’ll get another billion out in ’14 relative to that lower level.
And just separately you mentioned the DTA.
I assume the DTA consumption is still helping drive up your capital ratios.
Can you remind us how much DTA you have right now and how much is disallowed? Right now on a disallowed basis under Basel 1.5 it’s in the zipcode of $15 billion to $16 billion.
I think the important thing to keep in mind is during the quarter we didn’t get the benefit that you would think from the DTA because the impact of OCI offset that.
But normally you’d probably be building at close to the pretax rate you said before? Absolutely.
Last thing for me on the NII can you just review that again? The benefit you talked about that’s a benefit from the 10-year moving up.
And did you say that you received $300 million of that benefit that’s already in the 10.4 that we see this quarter? No the 300 was in the 10.8.
The 10.4 backs out to 300.
So the benefit the 700 that’s to come over the next 12 months? Yeah the 700 would be the benefit all other things being equal off of that $10.4 billion number.
And that’s just the benefit from the move in rates not anything else to do with the balance sheet.
Okay but you’re thinking of that as helping the core number grow right? That’s correct.
The 700 that’s left is all core.
The 300 was in the pre-adjustment number that we reported of 10.8 this quarter.
And you have additional benefits beyond that if short rates rise? Is that the point you were making earlier? That’s correct.
And that’s the important point.
And I’m just going to speak to what we had in the first quarter.
The difference between 100 basis point parallel shift and a 100 basis point on the long end is an incremental $2.1 billion which is to your short end question.
The power of the deposit franchise and the short rate rise because the mix is so transactional and core oriented that’s where there’s a lot of lift left that’s not shown up yet obviously because of the steepness of the curve.
We’ll take our next question from the site of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Your line is open.
I just want to confirm.
I believe you guys said in the past that when we look at the revenue declines from the sales and the MSR in the LAS business versus the corresponding reduction in expenses we should kind of count on a lag on that front.
Is that right? Yeah there’s always a lag of three to six months from when the work goes away to when the actual employees that are working on that as well as the expenses associated with it leave the income statement.
And in your experience generally what is the MSR purchase market like at this point? Are you guys still out there shopping MSRs? And how sensitive are those buyers to home prices? I want to make sure we clear up on question that we get a lot on this.
We worked hard to enter into the MSR sales that we entered into at the end of 2012.
And a lot of the goal associated with that was to be able to reduce the work so we could take the expenses out of our legacy assets and servicing area.
We entered into a number of transactions in the fourth quarter of 2012 and those will close throughout 2013.
The most significant sales have already closed and there will be some smaller sales that close during the balance of this year.
Outside of the closing of those sales any activity that you see from an MSR perspective will only be because it makes so much sense and it results in getting out loans that are very difficult to work out.
But going forward you should not expect to see any incremental MSR sales.
And all the guidance we’ve given you with respect to expense as well as 60-plus day delinquencies is solely based on us doing the work that we control.
And then on your AFS portfolio I think you guys have indicated in the past it was of roughly two-year duration.
Given your allocation to RMBS in that portfolio did we see an extension of that duration? Can you help us get an idea about what the impact might have been during the quarter? As you look at that at one of the conferences we spoke at the comment that we had made at that point was that as you look at the impact of OCI relative to net interest income that it took between 2.5 to 3 years to be able to earn back the OCI that’s lost through net interest income.
And you’re absolutely right that durations do widen in mortgage backed securities so as we leave 2012 it’s more in the context of 3 years to earn it back as opposed to the 2.5 to 3 years that we’ve spoken about previously.
And then last one from me the results in GWIM have definitely been impressive.
Can you guys speak to any change we’ve seen in high net worth risk appetite or behavior over the last year or so and how sustainable you view that? I think if you went a little shorter than that in the first quarter the markets moved people started putting money back in the market on a high net worth retail level.
And I think that trend has continued.
But there’s still a lot of cash out there and so if you look at some of the deposit dynamics you can see that repositioning.
So we [feel people are] constructive.
We’ve got our research experts that can give you their view of the S&amp;P levels and things like that but from a general trend from both in our private banking clients and their willingness to borrow money and put it to work for private banking and wealth management clients and their investment patterns we’ve seen their willingness to take risks go up.
And you’ve seen growth in our lending across the board and that indicates that people are willing to take risk.
I think if you looked back a year ago people were not using lines and were not asking for a lot of lines and that’s changed in the last couple of quarters.
We’ll go next to the site of Paul Miller from FBR.
Your line is open.
Switching to the mortgage banking side you’ve got 5% market share which you really built back in market share over the last year year and a half.
But most of them are refis.
With rates going up where do you think that market share goes to? Or do you think you’ve done a pretty good job building up your purchase sales force to maintain that? As you step back this quarter our purchase percentage of our overall total went up to 17% from what I believe was right around 7% during the first quarter.
So we started to see the purchase share go up.
And as we look forward we have roughly 12% deposit market share throughout the country.
And if we’re doing this business as well as we believe we can we clearly would expect over time that that mortgage market share can grow from the 4 that we started at a year ago to the 5 that we’re at today up to a high single digit market share.
And as we look at where we are today relative to going forward and as we look at what some of our peers have said the 5% decline in pipeline end of second quarter currently versus the first quarter is reflective of the fact that we are picking up share.
Because the pipelines aren’t down as much as some others.
The other thing is about 70-odd percent 72-74% I think it is of the activity that we do in mortgage is really off the customer base.
And so we now have more than half the mortgage loan officers that we had working through the branch retail stores on teams of people along with the financial advisors what we call FSAs in the branch and personal bankers and small business bankers.
And so that business system is really taking hold.
And the amount they’re producing continues to grow and that’s where we placed a lot of the growth year over year.
I think we’re up to 700 to 800 or so mortgage loan officers and mostly in that platform.
That platform performs well from both real referral basis plus direct to consumer basis.
And so we think that will serve us well as the market ebbs and flow between refi and purchase.
And then when you look at our purchase statistics you also have to remember that we still have probably more than other of our peers a lot of the government related refinancing business going through which we identify for you.
So if you sort of back that out you see a more representative picture of how we’re doing in the purchase market.
But we’ve got to make that transition happen and the team will work hard at it.
Rates have really moved up.
Gain on sale margins you know are coming down but can you give some color on where you’ve seen gain on sale margins so far into the quarter? Or is it too early to tell? For the third quarter? Yeah.
I think it’s too early to tell.
We’ve only had a couple of weeks of activity obviously.
But they came down in the quarter.
Yeah they were down roughly 50 basis points during the second quarter relative to the first.
And as Brian indicated it’s too early to tell this quarter.
Remember this is a business which ebbs and flows and you know as well as anybody.
Our goal in this business is to serve our customers well and I think we’ve rebuilt the platform to do that and that’s why we’re having success.
And so as the margins come in they’re still strong we still make money in the business but we’ve got to monitor as we go forward.
It doesn’t mean that we’ll have to take expenses down like everybody else will if the volumes are not there.
And did you disclose what your HARP percentage is? If you did I missed it.
I don’t know it off the top of my head.
It’s in the 40s.
We’ll go next to the site of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks for the disclosure on the supplemental leverage ratio.
I was wondering if you had any assessment of what the impact might be of the BIS proposal for add-ons on disallowed repo and CDS products sold and disallowed derivatives collateral.
I think this at this point we’ve worked hard given that these rules came out at the end of last week to be able to get to both the parent as well as to be very specific about our two primary banking subsidiaries.
The best that we can tell in the different releases that’s what the U.S.
regulatory framework has focused on.
There are obviously some different views that were put out in BIS but we don’t have a number for you on that.
That’s fair.
I know that’s early days.
And stipulating to the fact that clearly based on what you’ve told us and some stuff that we’ve done you are pretty much where you would need to be on the supplemental leverage ratio per the U.S.
take.
How would you think about managing your off balance sheet lending commitment to the extent that they do drive the denominator there? It’s one of the questions and as we have different discussions that you raise that as policy gets set on this there is a concern that some of the policies out there possibly have an impact on the availability of undrawn credit.
And so directly to your point to the extent that over time you’re required to hold capital in this case in the form of a leverage ratio for committed undrawn facilities by definition the cost of those facilities to have truly committee facilities will need to migrate up over time so there’s a fair return that’s generated on the capital that needs to get held for those.
To the extent that they’re not committed obviously the percentage that you need to hold is much less but across the industry to the extent that you need to hold capital for those in greater amounts the cost will need to change over time.
Keep in mind that doesn’t kick in until 2018.
Fair enough.
And to the numbers you gave you obviously don’t have a lot of pressure to do anything there.
But you’re right.
It would seem like pricing of those facilities probably had to get rationalized.
On the shares you did initiate the share repurchase.
You talked about that.
But there was still a fairly meaningful amount of share creep in the quarter.
Was that just employee grants? Or I would have expected to see those more in the first quarter.
And should we expect that we’re at this point kind of at a high for the year in terms of the share count? Or should it head back down to where it was say in the first quarter? If you flip back to the balance sheet data that we present on page six you can see that the actual number of outstanding shares for the quarter came down by 80 million which is the 80 million shares that we told you we repurchased.
The only variation in the supply chain on a fully diluted basis is the treatment of the 700 million shares that were associated with the Berkshire investment.
And depending on the price of the stock as well as where the preferred shares are that fully diluted share count can bounce around a little bit.
But on a pure shares outstanding we came down by the 80 million that we show on slide six.
When do you expect at this point to have completed the rationalization of the branch system? As you go back through the guidance and what we’ve spoken about we wrapped up and did the new BAC for the consumer businesses at the beginning of 2011.
And we had a plan to work through and to rationalize that branch network down to in the zipcode of 5 000 branches by the end of 2014.
And beyond ’14 at this point we’ll continue to evaluate and optimize the branch network going forward.
as we’ve rationalized the network in the markets that we operate we’ve been very pleased with our retention of both consumer deposits as well as overall relationships and that is we’ve rationalized that network.
Our customers have continued to do business with us and just use a different branch.
And the second thing that I would mention is that you’ve seen some announcements that in some of the more rural markets we’ve actually been able to sell those branches and generate decent premiums as we’ve sold those.
But in the near term we’ve got the plans through 5 000 and we’ll continue to optimize based on the environment we’re operating in.
But it almost sounds like based on the success that you’ve had that you’ve outlined that might encourage you to take it a little bit further? Or would that be reading too much into it? If you look at page 12 you have to sort of look at all the dynamics in there.
So deposits up $50 billion from last year second quarter the branch count down about 270 and the rate paid on deposits from 19 basis points down to 12 basis points.
But importantly look at the mobile banking customer and the uses behind that.
So this is a matter of continuing to optimize as you said the distribution system.
But it’s going to be led by the customer behavior change.
In other words we are seeing because of our customer base and because of our capabilities like our online banking system is rated best in the business nine years in a row and things like that the mobile banking system gets great feedback from our customers seeing constant improvement that our ability to do this is still in front of us because we’ve got to watch the customers behavior and how we change.
There will be some point where the core store level will probably settle in but you’re seeing it work through that if you sit there and have 10% more deposits and 5% less branches and 30% more mobile customers that’s a pretty good dynamic in terms of expense base of the platform.
And we’ll continue to optimize it but it’s going to be led by our customers.
We’ll go next to the site of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
I’m looking at the supplement on page 23 where you go through the consumer real estate services and looking down the column that says home lending year to date you have nearly $2 billion of revenues and only $94 million dropped to the bottom line.
And I’m wondering is that lack of profitably some vagary of segment accounting? Or is the business just kind of marginally profitable? And if so then why be in it? The big thing there remember in the home loan space that the only activity that’s reflected within that is the front end or the origination side as well as a small amount of the home equity book that’s held there.
Keep in mind relative to our peers all of the servicing assets and the profitability that comes out of the servicing asset for what I would characterize as the [“gooder”] current servicing is all based within the legacy assets and servicing segment.
So a little bit of apples to oranges relative to our peers as to how we report it.
I’m sorry the servicing revenues are in the LAS? That’s correct.
And this is just origination? Correct.
Okay.
And is that kind of historically the norm that origination is sort of a loss leader almost? I wouldn’t say loss leader.
You’ve got to do it to make some money but the value tends to be extracted through the servicing over time.
But the reality is that we’ve been building this up and investing in it and as we sort of reach a level to where the investment is paying us back we still have a lot of efficiency to get in this business too on the front end.
And then overall in terms of liquidity it looks like your non loan earning assets were down by almost $40 billion this quarter.
How much further do you suppose you can run those down as you reduce your debt footprint? On the liquidity side keep in mind a big chunk $18 billion of what you saw was a result of what we saw in running down the debt footprint.
And as we’ve said we’ve got $13 billion of maturities left in the balance of ’13 and just under $40 billion during 2014.
So we will continue to be a net reducer of our debt balances and we’d expect that to continue to benefit the net interest income line.
We’ll move next to the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Could you talk a little bit about whether you either have - it doesn’t look like it - or are planning to kind of retain mortgage loans in the second half of the year? I’m not sure I understood.
Well you know you said in terms of the investment portfolio you’d kind of be cognizant of the AOCI impact.
You know you could achieve a similar objective without that by retaining residential mortgages.
Okay.
So we would expect and if you look at during the quarter and you look at the composition keep in mind that you do have loans repay.
But during the quarter as it relates to the origination activity that we had with our core clients that there were about $13 billion of residential mortgage loans that were originated through the core platform roughly a third of which were through our wealth management area and the balance through our CPB segment.
So there is an origination of activity.
And as I said the investment portfolio is there to invest the residual of what’s used.
There will be some incremental investments during the year but I don’t think in the aggregate you should expect to see the overall level of securities balances change dramatically between now and the end of the year.
And given that you’ve been kind of ahead of or meeting at least regulatory capital levels faster than some of your large peers what are the areas that you think could benefit from incremental capital investment or where they might be divesting? Are there any opportunities there? You’ve seen two different levels of activities amongst our peers you’ve seen some looking to deploy and to invest in those areas where there are things that are being sold.
And I think you see some of it as you look at our commercial loan activities.
We’re very much focused given the capital and liquidity that we’ve built in using that capital and liquidity within our core customer segments.
And so when you look at that liquidity you look at our wealth management business you’ll see that the loan balances were up $5 billion Q1 to Q2 because of what we’re doing from a securities lending perspective and a mortgage lending perspective.
You look at the commercial loan balances.
And so they were up $10 billion.
That’s not from buying loans or doing anything else.
I do think though to your point some of that comes from being able to lend where other people are pulling back.
So you’re not going to see anything inorganic that we’re doing.
What you will see and what you should expect from us is to continue driving that growth in those customers areas where because of the dynamics that you mentioned other people may be doing less.
If you link this question to the last question about the efficiency of the mortgage business year over year we deploy about 5 000 people about 25% increase to make sure that we can close mortgages on time and meet the demand of the customers.
So at the same time the headcount of the overall company is down significantly we’ve had that kind of investment go on.
We have more commercial bankers today than we had a year ago.
We have more small business bankers financial services advisor branches.
So we continue to make the investment.
It’s not really about capital I think because we still have so many loan portfolios that are running off that if we replace them it would be good core growth to replace them.
It’s more about expense dollars redeployment.
That’s where we make the judgments right now and so this [a returning of] cost of capital on the allocated capital which is regulatory minimums or above.
But it’s really a question of where to put the expense dollars and that’s what we’re focused on in the core business and we have the best opportunity.
Do you have a number in mind as to how much you would look to reinvest of the expense savings that you’re generating? It’s a net number so we don’t give you a number that doesn’t take account.
But for this year just to give you an example we’ll spend $1.1 billion in connection with the new BAC ideas which are expense revenue and improving our company basis that is on top of the $2.5 billion we spend otherwise in pure systems development initiatives to help drive this company.
So there’s investment going in.
But all the numbers we give you are net of all the investments we’re making.
So we’re giving a net number but we are investing significantly at the same time.
And that was what Bruce and the management team set out a few years ago was we had to make sure we progressed the core franchise at the same time we brought the expense base and headcount down.
We’ll go next to the site of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Your line is open.
You’ve made gains in market share and mortgage and you said that you have stabilized the credit card.
Are you going to be able to gain share in credit card? And how do you look to do that? I think we’re in a position for the first time in a long while… We’ve been stabilizing credit card for a couple of quarters because we’ve seen it sort of settle in.
We divested some portfolios as you know.
We sized out of some of the business that we didn’t find attractive.
In this quarter we saw the increase for the first time I think in almost five years.
And so the team produced about 975 000 new cards this quarter up from 950-ish last quarter.
That is a multiyear high in production I think goes back to 2008.
So we should see this go on.
Now you have activity levels.
You’ve got to be careful in the summer and things like that.
But overall the baseline is set now that restructured portfolio which we’ve shown you guys I think started at $15 billion to $20 billion several years ago and it’s now down to a few billion.
So the underlying demand is there that we should be able to grow the business and hold our share.
And if you look over the last couple of quarters we’re basically flattish sharewise and card balance is a little bit down but in line with the peers.
And so we feel good that we finally have reached this point after five years of hard work of restructuring that business.
Is it a business where you want to gain share? If you could just sort of give your overall philosophy on the credit card business right now? We will continue to drive share among our customers.
We have low penetration in certain segments and low usage of our cards in other segments and so we’re driving it through three or four core products the Cash 123 product for people who feel that’s what they want in a card through the travel rewards and other awards products and we’re seeing the cards come in through those core products and we’re driving them.
And yes we want to grow share in the context of our customers in the select affinity teams that we work with across the country.
The second question I have is somewhat imprecise and I apologize in advance.
But I think what everybody is waiting for with your stock and with the earnings outlook is for this massive deposit gathering network to get profitable.
And we understand that that is a function of short rates going up.
Can you kind of walk us through this? Is there an ideal yield curve? Is there an absolute level of short rates? I mean what do we have to see to begin to see the branches get massively profitable? The first thing to your point if you go to the supplement during the second quarter the deposit segment within CPV did make $500 million during the quarter.
As we look forward though more directly to your point to the extent that the overall yield curve shifts up and this is once again in our first quarter Q that the benefit from a net interest income perspective on a 100 basis point parallel shift as of the end of the first quarter was over $3.5 billion the lion’s share of which is going to flow through the consumer segment.
So as it relates to where we are now it is profitable.
We’ve made almost $500 million.
We continue to optimize and reduce the expenses to make it more profitable.
And you’re correct once rates go up it will become much more so.
If I could just finally ask a corollary to that question because of all the issues that you’ve had in the past few years with closing branches changing branch models several different sort of programs to change the retail footprint of the company is there going to be a need as rates go up to give more of that benefit to your customers? In other words are you going to have to act differently in deposit pricing this time around than you have in previous rate cycles? I think a lot of the adjustments we made on the fee side for the general consumer have already been made and I think the customers have benefited dramatically from our position and how we do overdrafts and other types of fees.
So I think that is the payback to the customers.
As rates rise we will meet the market and grow the market as we’ve been doing.
But interestingly enough remember the constitution of our deposits across the last three years we have run off a lot of CDs and other things which are not advantage products.
And it’s really become more and more core every single quarter.
And that will play to our benefit because transactional deposits checking accounts are noninterest at this point because as rates rise there’s no extra cost.
And we’ll take our final question from the site of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Your line is open.
I have three real small questions and one bigger question.
What tax rate should we assume to be normal? At this point 30% is a reasonable effective tax rate for the last two quarters of the year realizing you need to add about 1.1 billion to that for the U.K.
tax.
And as we go into 2014 and 2015 that 30% migrates into more of a 32% 33% effective tax rate based on what we think we will be earning as we go into ’14 and ’15.
And then secondly the GWIM margin of 28% I’m just trying to compare that to the old Merrill Lynch wealth management margin and you have the asset management and U.S.
Trust in there.
Can you just give us some estimate where that 28% margin would be? Would it be 26%? Or 25%? Where it would be? Excluding U.S.
Trust and excluding asset management in other words just the pure brokerage business what kind of margin did that have? I’m trying to see if this is the highest brokerage margin ever perhaps if you can go back to the old Merrill Lynch.
We don’t disclose the difference.
I think what you’re asking is is the margin in U.S.
Trust materially different than what it is in the traditional Merrill Lynch wealth management model.
And you should not assume that the margin improvement and the 28% is driven by a mix.
Virtually all of that margin is driven by overall what we’re seeing in what you’ve characterized as the traditional wealth management business of Merrill Lynch.
And then as far as net interest income you said you had a $300 million benefit this quarter from the increase in the 10-year.
So am I just doing the math right? You had $10.5 billion of net interest income so it added 3% just this last quarter? Or really in the last month.
It just seems like a lot.
That’s a nice benefit.
If you flip to slide nine we show both the reported as well as the actual number.
And the reason why that increase in interest rates led to the improvement in NII is because you need to adjust the way you look at premium securities when rates go up to reflect the slowdown in the rate at which you’d expect to be paid back.
So that is more of a life of loan type adjustment and that’s why it’s $300 million.
It’s the reason why we show you the number both ways.
And then lastly the legal expense came way down.
You expect to stay around $500 million.
But I’m still focused on the $8.5 billion settlement and I go down to the courthouse in lower Manhattan and what I think I hear - and again correct my thinking - some lawyer say that Bank of New York rubber stamped the $8.5 billion agreement therefore throw the $8.5 billion deal out.
And what I think the Kathy Patrick side say is accept the $8.5 billion deal.
It’s the best economic alternative out there.
So my question is you have $8.5 billion of reserves to the $8.5 billion settlement.
Your disclosures say if the judge does not approve the deal your reserves would go higher.
So my question is how much higher would your reserves go if the judge does not approve the deal and what part of my logic would you like to perhaps correct? The first is we’re not going to comment on the ins and the outs of the $8.5 billion because as you know technically we’re not a part of that.
The second thing as it relates to that that I would say is and I think if you go back and look at one of the comments that was made we accrued the $8.5 billion assuming that all 424 trusts were at the point where they got to the 25% to where there was a negotiation.
So at this point to comment whether or not we think the reserves would be higher or they could be lower is really not appropriate because right now there’s an $8.5 billion settlement that’s going through the process.
We’ve accrued based on what 22 of the largest investors said was a fair deal and as you know when we set up the reserves we applied that same methodology to a variety of our other exposures.
And to speculate or to comment before then given where we are in this I just don’t think is appropriate.
Sure.
I think last quarter you thought it would all be wrapped up by now.
Any sense of when this might be wrapped up when you might have this behind you? I’m not sure that we ever said that we thought it would be wrapped up in the second quarter.
What we do know is what you know now given how you’ve followed the case.
I believe there’s a court schedule set up through the 26th of July.
It’s not clear whether or not it will be wrapped up by the 26th or it will go beyond that.
And we’ll just have to see how the process unfolds.
I believe at this point we’re through all the questions so thank you very much for joining us this morning and we’ll look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Good day and welcome to the Bank of America Third Quarter Earnings announcement.
Currently all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity to ask questions during a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) please be advised today’s program maybe recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Lee McEntire.
You may begin.
Good morning to those on the phone or joining us by webcast.
Before Brian Moynihan and Bruce Thompson begin their comments let me remind you that this presentation which is available at bankofamerica.com does contain some forward-looking statements regarding both our financial condition and financial results and that these statements involve certain risks that may cause actual results in the future to be different from our current expectations.
Please see our press release and SEC documents for further information.
So with that let me turn it over to our CEO Brian Moynihan.
Thanks Lee.
Good morning everyone.
I will cover a few points and then I will turn it over to Bruce to go through the details of the quarter as we’ve done in other quarters.
Consistent with prior quarters our Company continued to show progress on those areas we’ve been focused upon.
Capital generation managing risk achieving cost savings addressing legacy issues and driving our core growth strategies in our core lines of business.
On the capital front this quarter we generated $3 billion plus of Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital.
Our Basel 3 ratio has now approached 10% on a fully phased-in basis.
That capital and liquidity in the balance sheet optimization has been going on for the last several quarters holds us in good shape with regards to the regulatory suggested or proposed requirements that we see on the horizon.
The strength in capital is allowing us to return capital to shareholders.
In the past six months we repurchased 140 million shares equaling about $2 billion of our $5 billion authorization.
Turning to the revenue side we experienced relative stability this quarter.
But of course we felt the impact of the industry wide headwinds on a slower refi business and mortgage and slowdown in the capital markets from a typical summer slowdown as well as the investor concerns of a political and monetary uncertainty.
On expenses this quarter we incurred additional litigation costs.
Outside of that we continue to make progress on our expense initiatives remaining on track to deliver the cost savings that we told you about two years ago in New BAC and also reducing the costs in our legacy assets and servicing area.
In the credit area we continue to see asset quality improve and our net loss rates are at levels not seen since 2005.
As the macro environment slowly improve we experienced the 20% drop in net charge-offs and declining delinquencies from the second quarter.
Our 248 000 teammates have been fully engaged with our customer clients to drive activity.
We are pleased to see another quarter of solid loan growth in our commercial businesses while we continue to see the consumer lending activity stabilize in our card balances and modest growth elsewhere which has offset the run off in a non-core portfolios.
As a company we reached record deposit levels this quarter more than $1.1 trillion in deposit.
Our client balance flows and our wealth management clients helped us maintain our industry leading positions.
And you’ve seen that Bank of America Merrill Lynch has assumed prominent roles in the marquee investment banking deals that have gone on this quarter.
We’ve also seen a nice trend of progress absent some seasonality that results in our equity trading business.
It’s been gaining market share and continue to improve.
So to sum it up it’s another solid quarter of progress in our core businesses and I’m going to turn it over to Bruce to cover the -- in detail the presentation.
Bruce? Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start my presentation on slide 5.
During the quarter we earned $2.5 billion or $0.20 per diluted share.
Before I address the core business trends let me mention a few noteworthy items from our results that we’ve disclosed to you previously.
First we sold our remaining stake in CCB recording a pre-tax gain of $753 million which was partially offset by $443 million negative impact of FVO and DVA as our credit spreads continue to tighten during the quarter.
The net of these items benefited EPS by $0.02 in the quarter.
We also recorded a $1.1 billion charge to re-measure our U.K.
deferred tax assets given the 3% decline in the tax rate which reduced EPS by $0.10 a share.
The net of these is obviously a reduction of $0.08.
Moving to the core business total revenues in the quarter on an FTE basis were solid at $21.7 billion or $22.2 billion if we exclude the FVO and DVA charges.
If we compare this to the second quarter revenues declined on lower mortgage banking revenue as well as mostly seasonal declines within our sales and trading area.
Total non-interest expense of $16.4 billion included 1.1 billion in litigation costs $600 million increase in litigation costs from second quarter levels.
The increase in these costs was partially offset by the improvement in both our legacy assets and servicing costs as well as the benefits of our New BAC initiatives.
Asset quality improved significantly with net charge-offs improving 20% from the second quarter of 2013 to $1.7 billion and with the reserve reductions we took in the quarter we recorded provision expense of just under $300 million in the quarter.
On slide 6 you can see that our period end balance sheet remained relatively stable versus the prior quarter at about $2.13 billion.
Customer activity remained solid with loans largely led by commercial loans up $12.8 billion.
Consumer lending activity in the quarter improved as we saw increased loan generation in our dealer financial services area and our continued stabilization of card balances which was partially offset by the run off within our home equity portfolio.
Period end deposits were up over $29 billion or 2.7% led by commercial client activity and solid flows from our wealth management clients.
If we move down the page tangible book value per share improved to $13.62 and our tangible common equity ratio increased above 7%.
Couple of other things that I like to mention during the quarter we repurchased 60 million shares for roughly $900 million during the quarter.
OCI increased by about $900 million during the quarter and our preferred stock includes the completion of our previously announced preferred stock redemption for just under $1 billion.
On slide 7 you can see our Basel 1 Tier 1 common ratio of 11.08% increased 25 basis points from the second quarter of 2013.
Under Basel 3 on a fully phased-in basis under the advanced approach Tier 1 common capital increased by approximately $6 billion to an estimated $131.8 billion.
Our Tier 1 common ratio is 9.94% showing a 34 basis point improvement from the second quarter of 2013.
In our estimate of the Basel 3 Tier 1 common ratio on a fully phased-in basis under the standardized approach would be just over 9% above our proposed 8.5% 2019 minimum requirement.
If we move to the supplemental leverage ratio based on the proposed U.S.
requirements that don't take effect until 2018 at the end of the third quarter our bank holding company leverage ratio improved to above the proposed minimum of 5% and our two primary banking subsidiaries BANA and FIA continued to be in excess of the 6% proposed minimum.
So to reiterate what Brian mentioned there are a lot of new capital regulations proposed or finalized and we already exceed the requirements for the various known rules on Basel 3 capital and the supplementary leverage ratio.
On Slide 8 funding and liquidity you can see our long-term debt end of the quarter $7 billion lower as maturities and the completion of our $5 billion tender offer outpaced issuances.
We have $40 billion of parent company maturities through 2014 and as we look forward we expect issuances to be materially below that number as we continue to reduce and smooth the maturity profile of our debt footprint.
Global excess liquidity sources of $359 billion increased from $342 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2013 and parent company liquidity remained strong at $95 billion.
That translates into a time to required funding of 35 months well above our two-year coverage that we target.
I would also like to highlight that on October 1 of this year we completed the legal entity merger of the Merrill Lynch holding company into Bank of America Corporation as part of our continued efforts to both simplify the company and reduce costs.
We turn to Slide 9 net interest income.
Net interest income on a reported basis was $10.5 billion down from the second quarter of '13 as the improvement in our core net interest income was more than offset by negative impact from market-related impacts.
If we exclude those market-related impacts net interest income built off of Q2 '13's $10.4 billion to be just north of $10.5 billion.
During the quarter we benefited from higher rates in our discretionary book lower long-term debt levels higher commercial loans and lower rates paid on deposits.
These positives were partially mitigated by lower loan yields and lower trading-related NII.
As you'll note on this slide the net interest yield excluding market-related impacts improved from 2.36% to 2.44% driven by the lower balance sheet levels as well as our lower funding costs.
And consistent with what we mentioned last quarter we expect to realize the benefit of higher long-term rates as we reinvest but note that some of those benefits will occur through time.
On Slide 10 we'd spend a few minutes on expenses.
Total expenses for the quarter were $16.4 billion a $1.1 billion improvement from the year ago quarter but up $371 million from the second quarter of this year.
I want to be clear as you look at expenses and see that the uptick in the linked quarter expense we continue to deliver on our non-litigation expense reductions in our legacy assets and servicing area as well as the ongoing benefits from our New BAC initiatives in the balance of the company.
Compared with second quarter '13 progress on LAS and New BAC in addition to lower revenue-related incentive compensation was more than offset by increased costs of litigation as well as some marketing initiatives that were accelerated from the fourth quarter 2013.
Our litigation expenses did increase as they continued the valuation of legacy exposures led to an addition to reserves.
Our LAS expenses ex-litigation which are shown on the grey bar on Slide 10 of $2.2 billion declined $110 million from the second quarter of '13 and we continue to expect our fourth quarter LAS expenses ex-litigation to be below $2 billion as we continue to make very good progress on reducing the number of 60 plus days delinquent that we have in that business.
Our New BAC savings in the third quarter were approximately $100 million and are included in All Other the red bar.
We also remain on track to achieve the expected $1.5 billion of New BAC quarterly cost benefits by the end of 2013 and ultimately the $2 billion quarterly benefit upon completion of the project.
From an employee staffing perspective our number of FTEs ended the quarter at 248 000 a decline of more than 9000 or 3.6% from the second quarter of '13 and that was driven by staff reductions within our legacy assets and servicing area declines in home loans given the slowdown in mortgage productions as well as the continued optimization of our branch network.
And while we were down by 3.6% from the end of the second quarter to the end of the third quarter the average LTEs only declined 2.3% so we'll get some additional benefits during the fourth quarter relative to the third from those reductions.
We touched on asset quality Slide 11.
You can see that credit quality once again improved significantly.
Net charge-offs declined to $1.7 billion a 20% improvement on a linked-quarter basis.
As Brian referenced our third quarter of 2013 loss rate of 73 basis points declined 21 basis points from the second quarter and is now at 2005 levels.
Delinquencies a leading indicator of charge-offs again declined nicely.
During the quarter we did reduce reserves by $1.4 billion on the back of steadily improving consumer data which resulted in a provision expense of just under $300 million.
Given what we see from the improving delinquencies as well as the current HPI trends absent any unexpected changes in the economy we expect net charge-offs to decline again in the fourth quarter and stabilize sometime in 2014 at approximately $1.5 billion per quarter.
Let's move into the individual lines of business on Slide 12.
Our consumer and business banking segment we were very pleased with the results during the third quarter as we delivered improved earnings with revenues growing modestly and expenses declining from both the previous quarter as well as the year-ago quarter.
This coupled with lower credit costs within the segment resulted in net income of approximately $1.8 billion during the quarter a 28% improvement over the previous quarter and a 32% improvement over last year.
That was achieved as we continued to do more business with our core customers.
Our average deposits were stable as our organic customer growth was offset by some small branch divestitures as well as migrations to our Global Wealth and Investment Management area.
Our brokerage assets are at record levels within this business up 6% from the second quarter and up 18% over the prior-year’s quarter.
Average loans as I mentioned reflect stability in card balances as well as growth within our dealer financial services area.
Card issuance during the quarter remained strong.
We issued more than one million new cards in the third quarter which is at the highest level going back to 2008.
Consistent with our relationship strategy 63% of this issuance was to people that we have existing relationships with and credit quality continues to be strong as delinquencies and net losses continued to improve during the quarter.
Reduced expense levels in the segment reflects the benefits of our network optimization partially offset by investments we continue to make as we build out our specialist sales force in this area.
On Slide 13 commercial real estate services where we operate the production origination and servicing of consumer real estate loans.
In our supplemental information we report the two separate components of this segment one focused on loan origination and the other focused on servicing and legacy issues.
On originations this quarter first mortgage retail originations were $22.6 billion which was down 11% from the prior quarter and up 11% compared with originations in the year ago period.
We believe that the current period decline in production is less than our industry peers as we have been working through our existing pipeline.
Our current pipeline at the end of the third quarter is however down approximately 60% compared to the end of the second quarter of ’13 which reflects the significant reduction in market demand particularly in the refinancing space.
Since our production revenue is booked at the point in which you lock alone is opposed to funding I should point out that our lock volume was down 23% from the second quarter of 2013.
In addition to those lower lock volumes we saw a gain on sale margins decline compared to the second quarter of 2013; our reduction was about 60 basis points during the quarter.
As a result of all these factors core production revenue was down 46% to $465 million from the second quarter of 2013.
From a staffing point of view just on the origination side as we saw demand slow we reduced headcounts by more than 1000 employees towards the end of the quarter.
We will continue to reduce these staffing levels to be consistent with the lower volumes that we’ve seen.
The other primary component in this segment servicing revenue declined approximately $100 million versus the second quarter as our servicing portfolio declined as we continued to complete certain servicing transfers.
The other item that I want to highlight on this slide that’s particularly important is the servicing cost that we see within the legacy assets and servicing area.
We’ve spoken a lot about reducing the number of 60 plus day delinquencies in this portfolio and we had a lot of success during the quarter as the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans dropped below 400 000 units at the end of September nearly a 100 000 lower than what we had at the end of June.
Roughly half of the decline was driven by the transfers of servicing that I referenced in conjunction with the MSR sales agreements that we announced in the first quarter of 2013.
And once again as a result of this work we continue to believe that our LAS expenses ex-litigation will be below $2 billion during the fourth quarter of 2013.
On slide 14 our global wealth and investment management area had another strong quarter generating solid earnings and solid returns.
Within this segment both Merrill Lynch and U.S.
Trust maintained their leadership positions with a total of $2.3 trillion of client balances.
Revenue remains near record high at $4.4 billion up 8% over the third quarter of 2012.
Relative to the third quarter of 2012 net income improved 26% and with the third consecutive quarter in which our pre-tax margin was above 25%.
Asset management fees achieved the new record during the quarter while our brokerage income did decline from the second quarter due to reduced market activity.
Client engagement remains quite strong long-term AUM flows were $10.3 billion near doubling last year’s production.
Ending deposits were up $6.5 billion or roughly 3% from the prior quarter and our ending client loan balances of $117.2 billion reached record levels and are up 2% from the second quarter of ’13 and 11% over the third quarter of a year ago as we continue to provide more banking products to both our Merrill Lynch and U.S.
Trust clients.
On Slide 15 you can see global banking earnings were stable relative to the year ago period.
Revenue compared to a year ago includes the benefit of strong loan growth and stable investment banking fees.
Expenses this quarter include very good cost controls offset slightly by elevated litigation expense.
Global fee pools did decline but we maintained our strong second place ranking of global net investment banking fees recording $1.3 billion of fees in improving our market share to 7.7%.
In addition if you look at fees within the Americas we ranked number one within 11% market share.
During 2013 we have advised on 7 of the top 15 announced M&amp;A deals.
As we head into the last quarter of the year the pipeline looks quite strong but I do want to highlight that during the fourth quarter of last year we did see record levels of debt issuance during that period.
If you look at the balance sheet average loans increased $4.4 billion from the second quarter with more than half of that growth driven by commercial real estate lending with the balance by C&amp;I lending particularly with our large corporate clients.
Average deposits increased $12.2 billion from the second quarter of ’13 above our expectations given certain timing consideration as well as customer liquidity that’s been built around the fiscal cliff concerns.
If we move to Slide 16 global markets; we earned $531 million during the quarter after excluding the $1.1 billion U.K.
tax charge as well as DVA losses of $291 million.
On a comparable basis this is a decrease of $341 million compared to the third quarter of 2012 and down $403 million from the second quarter of ’13 due to lower sales and trading revenue as well as higher expense from litigation.
Sales and trading revenue ex-DVA was $3 billion during the quarter an 8% decline from the comparable year ago period.
Fixed sales and trading revenue was down 20% versus the year ago period once again impacted by concerns regarding the present decision out of stimulus program as well as political uncertainty both domestically in abroad.
Our equity sales and trading area had another very strong quarter with revenues ex-DVA up 36% over the year ago period as we experienced higher market volumes and continued to benefit from the repositioning of this business that’s happened over the last 18 months.
We are gaining market share and we’re improving our performance in each of the product lines.
Expenses in the quarter compared to the third quarter of ’12 included higher litigation costs that were partially offset by a reduction in operating expenses.
Average trading related assets were down 4% from the year ago period while our VaR was effectively flat.
On Slide 17 we show you the results of all other.
Gains on the sale of debt securities were $347 million in the third quarter down $105 million from the second quarter of '13.
You can also see the breakout of $1.1 billion of equity investment income which reflects the CCB gains as I mentioned earlier as well as an additional $368 million of gains.
The FPO that I mentioned earlier is also recorded in this segment.
Expenses include roughly $350 million during this quarter for litigation.
That compares to $100 million in the second quarter of '13 and $950 million in the third quarter of 2012.
As we close on All Other I would note that the effective tax rate for the quarter ex the impact of the U.K.
tax reduction charge was 25% and as we look forward to the fourth quarter of 2013 we expect the effective rate to be in the high 20s.
Before we take questions I'd like to leave you with several thoughts about our results.
Capital and liquidity both strengthened during the quarter.
We had encouraging business results as we saw improvement in both activity and profitability within Consumer and Business Banking.
We saw continued strength in Global Wealth Management.
We maintained our top position in investment banking and had another quarter of strong growth in our equity sales and trading business.
Credit continued to improve.
Our cost initiative work remains on track and to the extent of the steepened yield curve environment stays with us it should allow us to move NII upward as we move forward.
We'll continue to execute on our strategy and continue to deliver on the earnings power of the company.
With that we'll go ahead and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll first go to the site of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
In addition the slides have got a good breakdown of the rep and warrant reserving.
Could you talk a little bit about the litigation and how to think about the litigation costs as we go forward because that's obviously still volatile maybe discuss what's still remaining that could get kind of roped into that as we go forward? Yes.
Moshe what I'll say is that if you look as we referenced it was roughly 1.6 billion a year ago it was 500 in the second quarter and it was roughly 1 billion this quarter.
I'd go back to and I think we've been pretty consistent if you go back to 2010 and look at the build over the course of four years from both the litigation and rep and warrant perspective I think you can see that we have more of that over the course of a 3.5-year period than anyone else out there.
And as we look at the remaining pipeline we put it in really four different buckets.
The first is the GSE bucket for rep and warrant which with one exception we've got global settlements from the end of '08 back with Freddie and Fannie.
So as we look at that bucket we feel very good about that.
We then go to the second bucket which is monolines.
We've got global settlements with three of the five monolines and we've established the reserves for the remaining two based on that history of the three.
We then go to the rep and warrant with respect to the private-label securities the 8.5 billion Gibbs &amp; Bruns case which represents half the exposure continues to go through the core process and they'll be back in court on that I believe in November.
And obviously we set up reserves at that point based on the Gibbs &amp; Bruns history and as we've said before for that which we didn't have the basis to establish a reserve we put out a range of possible loss for rep and warrant that continues to be up to $4 billion.
And then you move into the other piece that we have that's the RMBS securities litigation.
During the quarter the Luther-Maine settlement received preliminary approval during the quarter and we'll look to get final approval by that sometime during the fourth quarter and we obviously set up a reserve in that settlement it was for $500 million which represents in the zip code of 65% to 70% of the company-wide exposure that we have for RMBS litigation.
And then the other two pieces that we continue to work through in that bucket are the FHFA litigation on behalf of Freddie and Fannie as well as AIG and there's really nothing to report new on either those fronts.
And what you saw during the quarter as we said was really an adjustment to the reserves based on as we get more information into the extent that there are additional discussions with some of the people that we're in a party with those discussions still.
I guess just to follow-up on that because JPMorgan had indicated that they had expenses in this quarter that were substantially higher than what they would have anticipated as possible even three months ago because of the change in the regulatory environment do you feel like you've taken that fully into account? Yes let me be a little bit more specific when we go back to because I think the one thing that's been overlooked a little bit and this is not a number we're particularly pleased with but if you go back to the beginning of 2010 and look at the combined litigation of rep and warrant expense that we've had in this company it's been over $40 billion which I think is quite a bit higher than the number that they've quoted.
Obviously those numbers are particular to each institution but I think as you look at what we've tried to do that those numbers have been significant and I think at this point relative to our peers we've tried to be out front and get through some of the larger settlements that we have and we think that $40 billion plus number reflects that.
Just shifting gears on the mortgage business you had a decline in rate locks that you identified but the pipeline actually is down substantially more.
Just talk a little bit about how you see the fourth quarter and into 2014 because you've got both the potential for obviously a further decline and as that pipeline kind of moves through but then again you also had a fairly high rep and warrant in the quarter.
How should we think about that from a revenue perspective? Let's talk about the production first.
You remember that we had a lot of HAMP going on and that's been dropping each quarter as we sort of get through the volumes of that and that had a pretty good impact.
It was down roughly 3.5 billion or so linked quarter.
The rest of production continues to move forward.
But if you look at what's really going on as we speak because during the third quarter you have significant changes in July August as we ran through the pipeline et cetera.
The current pipeline stands at a level 30 000 odd.
The current application volumes today are around 1 000.
The purchased piece of that has maintained relatively constant 300-ish a day.
So if you think about that we had sort of a month and a half of pipeline and that's been pretty consistent as we got into September and through October.
So it kind of extrapolates that out.
You should see production levels that would be down again in the fourth quarter but will start to mitigate.
The issue on the revenues as spreads have come in and the refinancing volume is at a higher profit margin because the work is not as much.
And so we expect to see a lot like we're seeing now spreads that come in a couple hundred basis points or so and we expect that to hold and the volumes will come down.
And so I think the number will continue to work in that direction.
What you do mention is the other side which is sort of the rep and warrant exposure and stuff that goes through there stuff that changes and Bruce can touch on that.
But in terms of overall volumes we're starting to take the people down to max the volumes.
You remember we had a lot of work to do here.
If you look at our non-HAMP production it's continued to grow each quarter.
Our home equity loan production has doubled in the last few quarters and we'll continue to drive that forward.
As we told you many times it will never be a huge business for this company because it's a business which is very competitive out there and the profit margins will always be thin but we need to do it for our customers and clients.
And on the rep and warrant front you're right.
The rep and warrant expense was just over $300 million a quarter and we clearly would expect that the run rate of that expense is going to be much more in the $150 million quarter type run rate as opposed to the $300 million plus.
Got it.
The very last one from me is as you had mentioned the expected improvement in charge-offs the provision obviously was substantially low.
How should we think about the provision relative to those charge-offs in Q4 and into '14? Yes I think once again our comments will be assuming that we don't see any slippage in the economy.
During the quarter if you look at the reserve release roughly 250 of it was from a purchase credit impaired and roughly a 1.150 billion from the core.
As we go forward I would think about the reserve release much more consistent with what you saw on the first and second quarters of this year over the next couple of quarters and that ultimately as we get into that latter part of ’14 and beyond you’d expect most of that to go away but I do think there are probably another couple of quarters where it could be in line with what we saw on the first and second quarter but clearly not at the third quarter of this year given the sharp improvement in credit we saw.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks very much.
We’ll now go to the side of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Betsy.
Good morning.
Just one follow-up on the conversation we just had regarding the reps and warranties and litigation so I heard you that the monoline three out of five are done you established reserves for the other two based on the three out of five; is that part of the rep and warranty this quarter? Is establishing reserves for the other two based on the three out of five done? No it is not.
Okay.
And then on the litigation reserve I mean we’ve seen obviously a long list of stuff in your Q so it is fair to say that litigation reserve was just all of the above of that long list or was there something specific that you saw in the quarter that drove the higher number.
I’m just wondering do we do the billion quarterly in our model going forward or is it going to be more episodic than that? But I think as we’ve said that number tends to be lumpy.
And I wouldn’t say that there was any one specific item during the quarter that you could point to.
It was really just a continued evaluation of the reserves as well –as well as reflective of any current discussions that we’re having with the different parties that we’re trying to work through this with.
Okay.
And then on the LAS expenses you indicated that next quarter sub $2 billion.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And so you highlighted that your delinquents are down half from the asset sales and half from your own actions.
So is it fair to say that the reduction roughly $300 million or so well $200 million to $300 million or so that you’re calling out for next quarter is also equally half and half and part of the question is trying to understand you know the run rate of how those expenses are coming out associated with the asset sale and I’m wondering is that front end loaded in 4Q is that going to be 4Q through 2Q next year and are the organic actions you’re taking likely that’ll be equivalent size in terms of the decline in the LAS expenses? Yeah I think and I would say a couple of things on that too Betsy -- once again the we told you at the end of the second quarter that we would get the number of 60 plus day units down below 375 000 units by the end of the year.
And you can see during the third quarter alone we got them down below 400 000.
So we feel particularly good with that guidance.
There’s a lot of work that goes on in a quarter to move out and to get the servicing transfers done as it relates to both our own teammates as well as people that we use to help us with that.
So that’s why you saw some of the numbers Q2 to Q3 a little bit sticky.
But the point that you raised I think is the right one which is now that you’ve got the loans out you have the ability to take the expense out and that’s why we would expect the expense reduction in the fourth quarter to be greater than what we’ve seen in the third quarter.
And I think as you look out at and as you look through 2014 the guidance that we’ve given is very -- really remains the same and you can feel more comfortable with given the delinquencies that as you go through 2014 you should see that expense number go from below $2 billion in the fourth quarter of ’13 to below $1 billion by the end of ’14 and it always can be a little bit lumpy but you should see that occur generally consistently throughout the year.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly on page 7 you highlight the regulatory capital.
Obviously it seems like you have set yourself up well for a bigger ask in CCAR from a buyback perspective is that a fair assumption to make.
And could you highlight how SLR factors into that and are your SLR numbers that you present fully loaded in 3Q or is it on a phase end approach? Yeah our SLR numbers are fully loaded at both the bank holding company as well as at the subs.
And as we look at CCAR what I would say is we’ve been consistent on this that we’ve done and done everything we can both in the way intrinsically the way we run the company which in many respects is not in consistent with what you get tested in CCAR net.
But built our Basel 1.5 ratio up significantly from last year.
The Basel 3 ratio is across the board or up.
As you look at both credit risk and market risk those have obviously gotten better and we’ve continued to put the legacy issues behind us.
So as we look at we obviously we’re able to return $5 billion to the common shareholders during this year is part of the CCAR process and we’ll look to move forward from that realizing that and until we see the exact case that we’re running and what the test is.
I think it's probably premature to say anything more than this.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll next go to the side of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Bruce I was wondering on the net interest income side do you think that the core NII should kind of grind higher at a similar pace that we saw this quarter it looks like it was up $100 million assuming no big change in rates? I think that’s fair John and there’s -- you always thought a little bit subject to mix loan pricing as well as rate environment but that’s clearly the trajectory that we’re on.
So the answer would be yes.
And how should we think about the market sensitive component; do you still have the NII hedges on or is it really the FAS 91 that adds volatility from here? Yeah I think it's important and the one thing that doesn’t come out when you look at this slide is it's not that we saw much variability in either FAS 91 or hedging effectiveness during the third quarter.
It was that we had some benefits in the second quarter when you had the sharp increase in rates.
So as long as you’re within a reasonable range where rates aren’t bouncing around you shouldn’t see much of that but keep in mind that what you saw on the first and second quarters was because of the largely unprecedented movement up in rates that we saw that gave us the FAS 91 benefit.
Okay.
And over time does that FAS 91 effect dissipate over time or is it always going to be with you? Well it gets reset so that you don’t have any aberration from quarter-to-quarter and the only time you have an aberration on a run rate basis is when the underlying rates move.
Okay.
And then any update on your rate sensitivity relative to where you stood at the end of last quarter for a 100 basis point move in long rates? Yeah I think – I want to think we’re in the same zip code both on a 100 basis point steepening as well as a 100 basis point parallel shift in the guidance that we’ve given once it takes us about three years to earn back any impact in OCI and we’re a touch better than that this quarter.
And if you look at the supplemental you’ll see that the level of debt securities is down modestly as we’re very sensitive to managing that OCI risk.
Okay.
And then just a follow up on litigation expense.
Back in July you were thinking perhaps $500 million per quarter and clearly it came in much higher than at this quarter and I recognize things are fluid here.
But should we be thinking of litigation expense more or like this quarter or more or like last are you able to say? Yeah John that’s really difficult to say.
I think that the punch line is is that it can be lumpy and we obviously do and work hard each quarter to the extent that we can get things put behind us at reasonable levels for the shareholders we do that.
It is an evolving process and it's something that we’re working hard on and at the same time there’s no question that the expense was elevated this quarter.
Okay.
And then one more clarification on the core expenses; how much did the expenses come down for mortgage so far and what do you see left on that and then just any comment on the IB comp ratio how we should think about that going forward? Sure.
I am not sure I understand your question on the mortgage expense … Yeah any capacity reduction that you’re doing as originations come down.
Have you gotten the benefit from that and how much might we expect for you to do that going forward? No as we referenced on the front end so on the legacy piece we talked about the Q3 going to Q2 and how we’ll have that below two.
As we talked about we needed to get through the pipeline on the front end during the third quarter which we did.
The 1000 people that we referenced on the front end happened late in the quarter.
And as I mentioned we're going to continue to reduce that to to size that for the volumes that we're seeing now but we've not put out a specific number on that.
Okay.
And in terms of IB comp what we saw this quarter and how we should think about that.
Yes we typically – if you look at combined investment banking and sales and trading you tend to be in the mid to high 30s and I don't think you're going to see any significant variations in that Q3 to Q4.
Okay thanks.
John one thing on both in the mortgage and otherwise as Bruce talked about the actions we've taken during the quarter to reduce headcount overall in the company a lot of it is in the second half of the quarter so you always get a continuing on effect of that.
And by the way next quarter as we reduce further LAS and mortgage you'll see it go in the first quarter.
So it doesn't lag and it's just the nature of severance accruals you take at the time plus as we move the headcount out sort of paying them on as you go on the severance also in certain cases.
So you should expect that those volume-related reductions will continue to move forward and the economics of what we did in the third quarter is probably more in the fourth quarter than it is in the third quarter.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
We will next go to the site of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
A question on SIC I think the explanation on the down 20% was fair enough and a lot of macro and political reasons which I get.
Just curious on if you had any early comments on swaps execution and clearing impact in the quarter and what do you see going forward as clients migrate? I wouldn't really know any specific change there Glenn.
It's something that we continue to look at.
The one thing I'd say that we are working hard on and this really flips more to some of the capital in central clearing type things that as we continue to have more and more of that migrated that is going to benefit certain capital ratios as we look at counterparty.
So I think that the ongoing to the extent that there is economic negative going forward we're obviously continuing to spend a lot of time with that.
But the one piece that is a little bit more tangible that we work through is that there will be some decent benefits over the course of 12 to 18 months as more and more of that gets migrated.
Okay.
As you think about the markets business one of the things that Tom and team have done is got the – we've talked about in various quarters he's kept the breakeven point relatively low.
So in a quarter which the equities business was very good for us comparatively but the fixed income business which is a lot bigger than the equity business was obviously down we still made $0.5 billion.
And so the goal there is to be able to serve our client and customers while keep the balance sheet in good shape and also keep the expense base so that when we get $2.5 million to $3 million we start making some decent money.
And in a good quarter we'll make a good amount of money and Tom and team have done a good job to keep that expense base in line and mostly expense increase here is with litigation and things that were non-fundamental to show up in this line of business related to the broader question.
I appreciate that.
I might be putting words in your mouth but it sounds like that you have pretty good operating leverage build in on the upside then.
In other words it doesn't necessarily scale up and down with revenues to the same degree? Yes if you just look across the last four quarters you see it but the key was going from '11 and '12 we moved the fundamental level so there is good operating leverage.
You get another 1 billion in revenues.
A lot of it comes through net of an incremental compensation care.
Okay.
One other question just on cards.
It looks like issuance and balances have been grown good.
I'm just curious how much of that as you are turning up the heat on marketing selling to the branches and how you feel about the outlook because it's been a while since we saw the industry in general have decent balance growth? Yes.
I think a couple of things in there just kind to reiterate a little bit we touched on is that we may over the course of the last 12 to 18 months the investment of having more bankers in the branches and trying to do more things with our customers.
And I'd say the two things that we feel best about as you look at that growth in cards to over 1 million cards in the quarter is the first is that 63% of those people once again we already have an existing relationship with and obviously know something about and are trying to do more with.
And the second thing I'd say is that as you look at the overall FICO and credit volume of those borrowers they tend to be in the mid 700s on average.
So it's the right customer it's sold the right way and it's part of an overall deepening strategy.
And now that we're starting to see some of the balances creep up it's reflective of that activity which I think quite frankly overshadows a little bit as we cleaned out some of the affinity and other programs that the new stuff that you saw got overshadowed by thinks that were legally in the books but now that we're largely through that what we're doing on the front end is starting to come out.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
We will next go to the site of Derek De Vries with UBS.
Your line is open.
I just have a detailed question on the OCI.
There was a 1.4 billion gain I think from pension – changes in pension.
Can you just explain what that was about? Sure.
What happens is that typically you mark your pension OCI once a year as you update the asset values and assumptions at year end.
You typically do that on an annual basis.
Because we merged several pension plans at the end of August we will require to re-measure those assets as of the end of August and that $1.4 billion reflects that the change in value from Jan 1 to August 31 and then obviously we'll re-measure those again at year end.
That's great.
Thanks.
Then talking more generally I mean you obviously have a lot of corporate relationships and I guess there was some unease about what's going on in Washington but assuming we can get through that do you get the sense that the corporate you're looking has kind of moved from margin preservation to investment or are they just really worried about the macro environment? I'm trying to get a sense of loan growth going forward? Yes.
I think if you look at our client base which ranges from small businesses through largest companies in the world I'd say all of them feel very good about their operating position making money.
Have done a tremendous job of keeping the cost structure in line.
An example with a company that had 200 employees whose sales are going to go by 25% and they said we're only going to add five employees.
So the American business has gotten very efficient.
But when you put on top of them the uncertainties because we're all engaged in global commerce the macro uncertainties at the world level the U.S.
level I think there has been an uncertainty in the whole back here that will come through as more and more clarity both economy i.e.
final demands of the products and the macro situation comes clear.
And so is the sprint out of the blocks? No they're running forward and it would probably be a speed up of the process.
And you saw some of that this summer with some of the M&amp;A activity and stuff in the larger companies has strengthened and you're seeing it go on.
So I think there's demand in the system so to speak.
There's money on the sidelines from investor side and the more clarity you'll see better activity.
Meanwhile underneath it you see the core economy continue to push forward even with all things going on around the world.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
We will now go to the site of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you talk run me through the expense line a little bit on the compensation side? I guess I'm just struggling a little bit with on a year-over-year basis you guys were down around 1 million on the comp line but headcount stay on 25 000 employees; capital markets revenues are down.
Why are we seeing that still elevated and how do we see that go down more significantly going forward? Sure.
We have a couple of things going on.
First I'll tell you that the expense number during the third quarter of last year and I'm going to speak to if you flip to Slide 10 for a moment that if you look at that comp or the All Other bucket which is I think what you're referring to that $13 billion in the third quarter last year was particularly low if you look out where it was in the fourth quarter it was at $13.4 billion.
So that can bounce around by a couple hundred million dollars.
So realized it was off a low base.
You did see a couple of things in the third quarter this year that you wouldn't have had.
The first is that the Wealth Management revenues which there's a fair bit of formulaic compensation are running at as I mentioned at higher levels in '13 and '12 so you have some compensation there.
The second thing that you had this quarter as Brian referenced as we took down headcount we had roughly $100 million of severance that came through the P&amp;L during the quarter.
The third thing that you had during the quarter as I referenced you had some elevated marketing expense that will go down in the fourth quarter that you also didn’t have in the third quarter.
So a combination of a variety of items but I think what we would say is that as you look to go forward you should see that red bar come down based on our overall expense initiatives as well as New BAC.
And remember also that when we give these reduction numbers we’re not giving you a reduction and saying but then we’re going else with this is a net number that you pointed out.
So all the investments we are making in the third quarter last year with third quarter this year you’ve seen that the mortgage production cost go up which will come back down.
But all the investment we made sales people do the cards that we talked about earlier small business lending investment services you can see at the branch level you can see the numbers growing there all those are in those numbers.
So all those investments are more commercial bankers that are helping our commercial loan growth in the (indiscernible) then you have the natural salary increases and stuff like that are all absorbed in that and you have to nominal numbers are flat and frankly if you back out a couple of things that Bruce just mentioned are down and so we’re comfortable on course for New BAC.
But remember these numbers are absorbing all the usual costs that we do plus the investments in business which we’re making strong investments in the areas we have growth opportunity.
Okay.
Now that’s helpful on the severance and I guess I would assume that we’d see some less of that going forward given the significant reductions in mortgage this quarter right? That’s correct.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Operator And we will next go to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Matt how are you? Just as we think about the overall size of the balance sheet you mentioned managing the securities book with OTI risk in mind and obviously the securities that come down as you mentioned this quarter while the loans are growing how do we think about the net impact of this to I guess looking out the next several quarters? As far as just notional side of the balance sheet? Yes and I’m really focused on the loans plus the securities because obviously liquidity levels can vary quarter-to-quarter and the trading books can vary quarter-to-quarter.
So just -- I mean loans are growing nicely but it's being offset by security is coming down.
So I’m really just focused on those two components.
Yes.
I think at this point what I would expect is that generally speaking the securities book should remain relatively consistent with where it is and then if you look at the loan book I would say that you are going to see that the loan book as well as well as the shrinkage of the debt footprint will be absorbed through deposit growth as well as a reduction to some extent in our parent company liquidity as we are carrying an elevated level of parent company liquidity to address these significant debt maturities in 2014 and the net of those which I thought you’re getting to initially is that you should continue to see this balance sheet in the 2.125 to 2.25 type area but as we go forward we should continue to get it to be more and more efficient.
Yes I think one thing that we haven't -- we don’t -- haven’t talked about in a while is we still have a significant run off portfolios that we’re replacing as to which gives us ability to grow the core business without growing the balance sheet footings and I think that’s something that will help us in our capital levels that are already very strong today going forward because effectively we don’t need the incremental capital to grow the balance sheet even that have commercial loan growth and other types of growth you're talking.
Great.
So flattish balance sheet but optimizing the capital usage and then obviously the NIM probably benefiting from the remix there? Yes and by the way everything is on the NIM is still the short rate move drives a lot of profit because the deposit franchise is an advantage to funding source as you all know.
And then just separately circling back on the kind of core expenses that's $13.1 billion I guess its $13 billion extra severance and there is some of the mortgage staff reduction still some New BAC coming in and maybe some investments.
I mean where is that on the revenue base that you’ve right now where is that $13.1 billion go to if you just fully loaded all the stuff that you can see? I think the best guidance that we give at this point is we’ve got roughly 600 million a quarter in New BAC to get done over the next five to six quarters.
Okay.
That's a net number.
So to think about it 12.4 to 12.5? Yes but you have got to remember you've got to add back some of LAS costs -- with the subtracts in there but there is always -- LAS is a servicing business it always had some cost that we probably took.
Yes I guess I was just breaking the – you got the litigation which is the moving target you got the LAS which had been pretty explicit and then everything else is 13.1 that …? Yes that -- sometimes people take that lower number [multi] times but you’ve got to remember -- parts of other costs will also be in there.
Yes.
Okay thank you very much.
And we will go next to the side of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
My questions have been answered.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we will now go to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I just wanted to clarify the New BAC benefits.
So how much of New BAC have you achieved? Roughly 1.4 billion a quarter Mike.
Okay.
Relative 2 billion a quarter that we’ve previously announced.
And originally I thought you’re looking for mid 2015 so when you say 600 million more that’s what you mean when you say over six or so quarters? That’s correct.
And just to clarify the last answer so you expect all that to hit the bottom line or some of that will be offset by investments in sales people and other investments? I think what we said was at the current run rate level you should be expecting that to hit the bottom line.
Okay.
Switching back to the legal questions you said you had taken over $40 billion of charges.
What is your legal reserve as of the end of the third quarter? We did not put out a litigation reserve on a standalone basis.
The number that we do put out is where we are in rep and warrant and that was just over $14 billion at the end of the third quarter.
14 billion in rep and warrant? That’s correct.
14.1 billion.
Okay.
And would that include anything other than the $8.5 billion settlement? That includes another 5.5 for a variety of matters.
So for the Gibbs &amp; Bruns settlement you have an $8.5 billion reserve for that settlement.
I think I asked this on some other earnings calls but if that agreement was not approved by the judge what is the potential range for that $8.5 billion reserve? As we have said before we would need to look at that based on the circumstances that come out at the time and I don’t think it’s a foregone conclusion it goes one way or the other.
Okay.
Switching gears in terms of loan growth what’s the loan utilization level? And what are you seeing as far as acceleration or deceleration in loan growth? I would say that -- we really haven’t -- and one of the things that we try to do and we’ll continue to optimize particularly the way that the Basel 3 standardized ratio works that focus more and more in for those places where we make credit commitments to have the loans be funded as opposed to unfunded given the capital treatment that's out there.
So I would say generally as you look at line utilizations there hasn’t been much that’s changed at all the -- where you’re seeing the loan growth has been more funded type loan growth in many cases for a large high quality companies that are making acquisitions a couple that we’d have seen this quarter would have been Verizon Wireless as well as Amgen.
Mike -- overall Mike the loan utilization rates they haven’t moved around a lot but they’re at low levels historically across the board whether it’s our business banking segment the middle market segment and the large corporate not -- don't really use their lines other than as Bruce described and they’re doing something inorganic but they’re very low which gives you two things.
One it indicates that they have got lots of cash and have lots of room for investment but secondly as the economy picks up moving back with thousand basis points or so we are from sort of more normal levels like a better term is a lot loan growth within -- without new customer relationships or any more work.
I understand you’re picking and choosing your spots more.
So would you say that demand really hasn’t changed a whole lot over the past year or two or is it picking up in certain areas? I think demand has picked up over the last couple of year.
I think that the company have a line of credit in their dynamics.
They are using it a lower level than they did not necessary two years ago but during the normal economic times and that’s the second point the demand has been picking up across the consumer demand and things like that but it's still not as strong as it would be because it's a 2% growth rate economy out there.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will take our final question from the site of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
I just have a few cleanup sort of questions.
With respect to the long-term debt footprint then have you talked about how much of the 40 billion that is coming due that you would expect to refi or are you going to let it all just go? It won't all just go but I think it's safe to assume that less than half of it will be refinanced.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
On the last question you were asked about the litigation reserve which understandably you don't want to go there but do you have an estimate of what your reasonable and possible beyond those litigation reserve will be this quarter? Yes I believe Guy that – at the end of the second quarter I believe that we had said that the range of possible loss with respect to litigation was in the high-2s and we'll obviously need to freshen that up as we get the third quarter Q out.
But I wouldn't expect to see anything significant one way or the other.
Got it.
The 1.1 billion litigation expense and I guess reserve build this quarter can you give us a sense of how it breaks down by business unit because it didn't seem like it all goes to All Other? Yes if you look at by business unit I referenced that as you flowed through that you had – and you can see it in the commercial real estate services area the results were 300 million of it there.
There was roughly 300 of it between banking and markets and then the majority – the rest of it was in All Other.
Great.
That's helpful.
You mentioned that you had accelerated some marketing initiatives from the fourth quarter to the third and I was just wondering if you could just give us a little color on specifically what they were since everybody is looking for growth? Yes I think only two things is that you've obviously seen a little bit more brand that's out there and then with CCP there was the acceleration of what we do from a charitable perspective from the fourth to the third those were the two items.
Got it.
And then the very final question is you had meaningful improvement in your Basel 3 capital above and beyond the earnings and it looks like it's a pretty meaningful reduction in the threshold and other deductions.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more granularity on what was going on there.
It's a great question.
And really two things going on.
Keep in mind as we've said because we have a decent chunk disallowed DTA from a Basel perspective that ballpark we will accrete capital on a pretax basis generally speaking as opposed to a post tax basis for a decent number of quarters going forward.
So when you look at that I think pretax not so much post tax.
And then the second benefit that you had which was an earlier question was the benefit of OCI during the quarter of roughly $1 billion after-tax or $1.5 billion pretax and that was the combination of the pension to the positive and then to the negative CCP coming out as well as some of the debt securities gains.
Got it.
Okay that's great.
Thanks so much for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Okay I think that's all the questions that we have.
So thanks for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s program.
[Operator instructions.] It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire.
Good morning everybody on the phone as well as the webcast.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me remind you we make forward-looking statements today.
For further information on those please refer to the website and our SEC filings about our forward looking statement information.
So without further ado let me turn it over to Brian our CEO.
Thanks Lee and good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us to review our fourth quarter results.
As we talked about over the last several quarters we’ve been on a journey to simplify our company and we’ve talked to you about our some consistent areas of focus: capital generation reducing our costs managing the risk down addressing the legacy issues and driving business growth overall.
Each quarter you have seen the progress our teammates have made and the momentum is becoming more evident.
On the first page slide two of the deck you can see the annual comparisons that will show you the progress over the last couple of years.
First we’ve improved the balance sheet.
Our tier one common capital has grown 16% this year liquidity and time to required funding have further strengthened.
The strength in capital and liquidity allowed us to begin returning capital through share buybacks to shareholders in 2013.
Another area of our early focus has been rightsizing our expense base.
We have been meeting the goals of our cost programs each year.
While we’ve made progress on those each quarter there is still significant progress when you look over the last couple of years.
After reporting expenses and excluding a goodwill impairment of $77 billion in 2011 we’ve worked that number down to $69 billion in 2013.
As we’ve been clear with you we expect additional cost savings in 2014 as we continue to execute on both our new BAC and our legacy assets and servicing initiatives.
We’ve also focused on addressing our legacy mortgage issues and although we still have work to do we have made progress.
On our credit costs and our provision costs we’ve seen tremendous results as net loss rates in our portfolios are at levels not seen in nearly a decade.
As a result of all this work earnings have improved significantly but we still have not approached the true earnings potential of Bank of America.
So as we move to slide two let’s talk about recent results in the business on a business by business basis.
We’ve been delivering solid growth in activity and relationships across all the groups of our customers and clients we serve.
Let me highlight a few of those for you.
Deposit levels continue to reach records each quarter.
While this growth has been occurring in balances the rate paid has been declining to what we believe is low against our peers at 8 basis points in our consumer businesses.
Our operating costs which we focus on heavily of our deposit business has declined to just 200 basis points now.
Driving this improvement is the work we’ve done to optimize our delivery network in our stores in response to customer behavior changes across time.
Banking center over the counter transactions continue to go down but ATM online and mobile transactions continue to grow.
We understand this and we observe this in our customers and we’re working with them to capitalize on arguably the largest and best-positioned branch network in banking.
However branches to remain a critical component of everything we do.
We have about 8 million customer visits a week the kind of traffic we really appreciate and most retailers would give their right arm for.
Meanwhile as that traffic comes in the customer behavior continues to shift to ATMs online and mobile and that’s given us the opportunity to be more efficient and at the same time continue to deliver innovative products to our customers.
When you move to our mass affluent customer base we’ve seen deepening across the customer relationships.
Merrill Lynch Brokers assets continued their strong growth.
We’ve invested heavily in a sales force for what we call our specialist sales force and that’s grown to 6 700 people in 2013.
Looking at what that sales force has been able to do this year we opened 350 000 new Merrill Lynch accounts 125 000 new small business deposit and card accounts as well during 2013.
As we move to our industry leading global wealth investment management business we continue to break records on top line profitability.
We just recorded the best year in the company’s history for wealth management results.
We have more customers and clients doing more business with us and now we manage client assets of over $2.4 trillion.
In our global banking business loan flows have been very strong now growing for six consecutive quarters.
Investment banking is coming off a very strong year and a very strong fourth quarter.
We once again maintained our number two position in fees overall and grew market share year over year.
As we look at our trading business our global markets business we’ve been really pleased with the success we’ve had in equities over the past year and that’s helped offset some of the industry challenges facing the larger FICC business that we have.
Now both remain very important customer facing businesses for us.
They face some tough regulatory changes as the rules have changed about what the scope of activities is over the past couple of years but the team under Tom Montag has been managing those changes well.
Importantly we ranked for the third year as a top global research firm.
All in all we believe if you think back 2013 was a significant year for the progress this company has made against all the focus areas I mentioned earlier.
As we look to 2014 we are well-positioned as a company to meet our customers’ needs by delivering the whole company to every client and every customer and winning in the marketplace.
With that brief introduction I’d like to turn it over to Bruce to cover the numbers in the quarter.
Bruce?  Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start and go through the fourth quarter results starting on slide number four.
We earned $3.4 billion or $0.29 per diluted share this quarter.
Total revenues in the quarter on an FTE basis were in line with the third quarter of 2013 at $21.7 billion and were $22.3 billion if we exclude the negative impact of FVO and DVA as a result of the significant credit spread tightening we saw in our credit spreads during the quarter.
Our revenues benefitted from increased net interest income strong investment banking and wealth management fees during the quarter and were partially offset by lower equity investment gains.
Total net interest income of $17.3 billion increased from the third quarter of ’13 as a result of increased litigation costs which were $2.3 billion during the quarter.
If we back those litigation costs out and back out $1.4 of the foreclosure lookback expense that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012 our expenses during the quarter declined $300 million from the third quarter of ’13 and $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Asset quality continued its improvement and resulted in provision expense of only $336 million.
I would also mention two additional items that impacted results during the quarter.
As I mentioned FVO and DVA were $618 million and we also recorded discrete tax benefits of approximately $500 million during the quarter that were driven by tax items that were related to non-U.S.
operations as well as the resolution of certain global tax matters.
On slide five you can see that our period-end balance sheet came in at $2.1 trillion below the prior quarter on lower trading assets versus that third quarter of 2013.
Ending loans declined $6 billion due to the decline in residential loans in our discretionary portfolio.
Outside of residential mortgages client and customer lending reflected good commercial and seasonal credit card growth that was offset by expected declines that we have within our runoff portfolios.
Period-end deposits grew $9 billion from the record levels that we saw during the third quarter of ’13.
Moving down the page tangible book value improved to $13.79 as the full benefit of earnings was partially offset by a negative move in AOCI as a result of higher rates.
Tangible common equity increased to 7.2% during the quarter and during the quarter we repurchased 92 million common shares for roughly $1.4 billion.
The last thing that I would mention on this slide is despite the earnings of $3.4 billion our return on tangible common equity at 8.6% remains lower than we would like it to be but we continue to make very good progress on this front.
On slide six you can see our Basel I tier one common ratio of 11.19% increased from the third quarter of 2013.
If we look at Basel III on a fully phased-in basis we remain above our 8.5% 2019 minimum requirement under both the standardized as well as the advanced approaches.
Let’s first look at the advanced approach.
Under that approach tier one common capital increased from the third quarter of ’13 to more than $132 billion.
Our Basel III risk-weighted assets remained steady at $1.3 trillion and our common ratio improved slightly from the third quarter of 2013 to 9.96%.
Under the standardized approach our estimate of Basel III tier one common ratio improved a touch from the third quarter of ’13 and remained slightly above 9%.
If we turn to the supplementary leverage ratios based on the proposed U.S.
requirements that are expected to take effect in 2018 as of the end of 2013 our bank holding company leverage ratio improved from the third quarter of ’13 and continues to exceed the proposed minimum of 5%.
Looking at our primary bank subsidiaries BANA and FIA they also continue to both be in excess of the 6% proposed minimums.
The last point I would make on this topic the BCBS published final supplementary leverage rules over the weekend and while we do note some improvements from the original proposal we’re still evaluating the exact impact to us.
If we turn to slide seven funding and liquidity our long term debt ended the quarter $6 billion lower which further improved our funding costs.
Global excess liquidity sources during the quarter increased $17 billion to $376 billion and was driven by our strong deposit flows.
The time to required funding at the parent company increased to 38 months and as we look at 2014 we have $31 billion of parent company maturities during the year.
And once again we would expect the issuances to be below that number as we both reduce as well as smooth the maturity profile of that debt footprint.
The other thing I would mention is that we do expect to see some additional issuance within our banks this year given the applicability of the new liquidity rules and how they apply to the bank’s subsidiaries.
If we turn to slide eight net interest income our net interest income on an FTE basis was $11 billion which was $520 million over the third quarter of 2013.
The fourth quarter of 2013 did include $210 million of positive benefits in market related adjustments driven by lower premium amortization from slower prepay assumptions on mortgage-backed securities as long term rates rose 30 basis points from the end of ’13 to the end of ’14.
Our net interest income excluding those adjustments was $10.8 billion representing a $241 million increase from the third quarter of ’13.
Roughly two-thirds of that improvement was driven by trading-related net income and the balance once again excluding market-related adjustments was driven by lower long term debt levels and to a lesser degree higher deposit levels and lower rates paid.
Net interest income in those benefits were partially offset by lower consumer loan balances and lower yields.
As a result of these different factors our net interest yield excluding market-related adjustments improved from 2.4% in the third quarter of 2013 to 2.51% in the fourth quarter of ’13.
As we move into 2014 I do want to remind you that the first quarter includes two less interest accrual days so the Q4 ’13 base of just below $10.8 billion excluding the market-related adjustments all else being equal would start at roughly $10.6 billion for the first quarter of 2014.
Our asset sensitivity position remains positioned to benefit from higher rates particularly from the short end of the curve.
If we move to expenses as I mentioned earlier noninterest expense was $17.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013 and included a $2.3 billion charge for litigation expense.
Litigation expenses increased $1.2 billion from the third quarter of ’13 as we continued to evaluate our legacy exposures largely RMBS litigation which led to additional reserves.
Excluding litigation total expenses were $15 billion during the quarter which compares favorably to the $15.3 billion in the prior quarter and $16.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our legacy assets and servicing costs once again excluding litigation declined nearly $400 million from the third quarter of ’13 and were below $2 billion this quarter as we previously guided.
This drove the $300 million improvement in expenses adjusted for litigation in the quarter.
As we continue to reduce the delinquent loans serviced over the course of 2014 and reduce operating costs we expect the fourth quarter of 2014 LAS cost excluding litigation to be roughly $1.1 billion.
Move for a moment to new BAC the benefits from new BAC in the most recent quarter were offset by a small seasonal uptick in costs when comparing to the third quarter of ’13 and when comparing to the fourth quarter of 2012 our new BAC savings are partially offset by roughly $300 million of increases from revenue related costs on higher global banking and markets and GWIM revenues.
We remain on track to achieve the expected $2 billion of new BAC cost savings in mid-’15 as these initiatives wind down near the end of 2014.
If we move to the number of full time equivalent employees we ended the quarter at 242 000 employees a decline of more than 5 000 or 2.3% from the third quarter of ’13 and that was split pretty evenly between staff reductions in LAS and the production side of the mortgage business as volumes declined and to a lesser extent we reduced staff associated with our branch optimization.
Before I leave expenses I do want to remind you all that the first quarter typically includes the annual cost of incentives for retirement-eligible associates and once again we expect in the first quarter of 2014 that number to be approximately $900 million which is consistent with what we saw in each of the first quarters of 2012 and 2013.
If we move to slide 10 on asset quality you can see that credit quality once again improved nicely.
Net chargeoffs declined to a reported $1.6 billion or a net loss ratio of 68 basis points.
The quarter did include $144 million of chargeoffs related to clarification of regulatory guidance on accounting for TDRs in the home loans portfolios.
If we exclude that change net chargeoffs were approximately $1.4 billion or a 62 basis point net loss ratio and improved $250 million or 15% from the third quarter of 2013.
Delinquencies which are obviously a leading indicator of net chargeoffs declined again as well.
Our fourth quarter provision expense was $336 million on the back of this steadily improving consumer data resulting in a reserve release of $1.1 billion excluding the regulatory guidance change.
As we move into 2014 we continue to see credit quality improve.
Let’s now move into a discussion of the businesses and I’m going to start on slide 11 with consumer and business banking.
Within this segment we delivered improved earnings for both the previous quarter as well as the prior year’s quarter.
Net income of nearly $2 billion in the fourth quarter of ’13 is up 11% from the prior quarter and 36% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Stability in revenues lower credit cost as well as expense reductions driven by network optimization drove the improvement in both periods.
If we take a step back and review customer activity during the quarter we saw our average deposits grow steadily and rates paid down to 8 basis points.
Our brokerage assets increased 7% from the third quarter of ’13 and are up 26% year over year on both improved market valuation as well as account flows.
Our consumer card loans showed seasonal growth this quarter as well as continued strong issuance with 1 million cards issued during the quarter.
I would note that our fourth quarter of ’13 balances reflect the reclassification of roughly $1 billion of an affinity portfolio that was moved to loans held for sale and we would expect seasonality to move these balances lower in the first quarter of 2014.
Our risk-adjusted margin on credit cards is now back above 9% driven by seasonal spending and improved credit quality as net chargeoffs and delinquencies continue to improve.
Our expense levels during the quarter do include approximately $112 million of litigation costs and that masked the benefit of our delivery network optimization as mobile banking usage continues to increase and we continue to consolidate banking centers.
Let’s move to slide 12 consumer real estate services which as you all know represents only 8% of the company’s revenues.
In our supplemental information we report two separate components of this segment one focused on loan origination and the other focused on servicing and legacy issues.
As we signaled last quarter our first mortgage retail originations of $11.6 billion were down 49% from the third quarter as the amount and level of refinancing opportunities slowed given the rising rate environment.
Lock volumes declined 37% leading to lower core production revenue.
We continue to reduce our production staffing levels to be consistent with these lower volumes that we’re experiencing.
Our rep and warrant expense was $70 million during the quarter and declined by roughly $250 million from the third quarter of ’13 which benefited mortgage banking income.
One item I do want to mention from the appendix of our slide deck is on page 20 regarding represent and warrant exposure.
We did receive increased levels of private label claims but it’s important to note that the vast majority showed no evidence that the claimant reviewed the individual loan file ahead of the submission and that obviously impacts the overall claim quality and therefore the process for claims resolution.
The other primary revenue component in this segment servicing revenue declined $54 million from the third quarter of ’13 as a result of our smaller servicing portfolio.
From a cost of servicing perspective our number of 60-plus day delinquent loans dropped 73 000 to 325 000 units at the end of 2013 and as a result of this once again our LAS expense ex-litigation declined nearly $400 million during the quarter to $1.8 billion.
Global wealth and investment management on slide 13.
This represents 21% of our company’s revenue and our wealth management business achieved records for net income in both the quarter as well as for full year 2013.
Within this segment both Merrill Lynch as well as U.S.
Trust maintained their strong leadership positions managing a total of $2.4 trillion in client balances.
Revenue approached $4.5 billion in the quarter increasing 7% year over year and 2% on a linked quarter basis.
And I would also note it’s the fourth consecutive quarter in which the pretax margin was above 25%.
Our asset management fees once again achieved a new record during the quarter driving the revenue improvement from the third quarter of 2013.
Our client engagement remains strong and market levels are providing an additional tailwind.
Our long term AUM flows for the quarter were $9.4 billion and $48 billion for the year nearly doubling the 2012 production level.
Ending deposits also grew nicely again and our ending client loan balances of almost $119 billion reached record levels as we continue to see very good activity in both consumer real estate as well as our security based lending.
Turning to slide 14 global banking our fourth quarter earnings of $1.3 billion showed good growth over the third quarter of ’13 with strong investment banking results but are down from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to higher provision expense.
Provision in the year ago quarter included reserve releases while we built reserves in the fourth quarter of ’13 associated with the commercial loan growth that we’ve seen.
While we’re on credit quality I would note that our net chargeoffs within the banking segment for the quarter were only $7 million versus $132 million in the fourth quarter of ’12 and $35 million in the third quarter of ’13.
Our expenses reflect effective cost control but also reflect increased related to revenue related compensation for investment banking.
Our investment banking fees this quarter across the company were a record $1.74 billion up 9% from the fourth quarter of 2012 and 34% from the third quarter of 2013.
Based on [Dealogic] we did maintain our number two position and fees with an 8% market share and in addition during the quarter we ranked number one in Americas investment banking fees with a 10.7% market share.
During 2013 we advised on 10 of the top 20 announced M&amp;A deals and as we move into 2014 the pipeline remains strong.
If we move to the balance sheet average loans increased $8.8 billion from the third quarter with solid C&amp;I growth particularly in large corporate and healthcare along with growth in commercial real estate.
Our average growth did outstrip our $2.3 billion end of period growth as we funded several deals near the end of the third quarter of ’13 which benefited the overall average balances.
We see solid customer demand for loans as we head into 2014 but would note that competition is particularly aggressive for middle market loans.
Lastly on banking our average deposits increased almost $20 billion from the third quarter of ’13 as our customers continue to show strong liquidity.
If we switch to global markets on slide 15 ex-DVA we earned $341 million in the fourth quarter of ’13 consistent with the fourth quarter of ’12 but down $190 million compared to the third quarter of ’13 after we exclude the U.K.
tax charge.
Higher revenue in both comparisons was offset by litigation costs mostly associated with RMBS securities litigation.
Sales and trading revenue once again ex-DVA was $3 billion 19% above the fourth quarter of ’12 and in line with what we saw in the third quarter of ’13.
Our fixed sales and trading revenue were up roughly $300 million or 16% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 as the strength we saw in our credit and mortgage businesses more than offset slowness in both rates and commodities.
Our fourth quarter of ’13 did include roughly a $200 million benefit from recoveries on certain legacy positions within the FICC business.
Our equity sales and trading area finished a very strong year.
Revenues although down 7% from the third quarter of ’13 were up 27% over the fourth quarter of 2012 as we continue to benefit from the repositioning of this business over the past 18 months.
We gained market share and improved our performance in each of the different product lines.
Expenses excluding litigation showed very good cost controls and small increases in line with revenue improvement.
Our average trading-related assets are down $54.3 billion or 11% from the year ago period and are generally flat with the third quarter of 2013.
On slide 16 we show you the results of all other.
Profitability this quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013 declined as the tax benefits this quarter that I described earlier were more than offset by lower revenue and less reserve release.
The revenue decline from the third quarter of ’13 was driven by lower equity investment gains.
If you recall we sold CTB shares during the third quarter of ’13 as well as more negative FVO valuations.
The expense within all other includes $250 million of litigation in the fourth quarter of ’13.
And lastly I would note we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 30% in 2014 absent any unusual items.
Before we open it up for questions let me make a few comments on the quarter.
Capital and liquidity have never been stronger.
On the revenue side customer activity drove stronger core business results.
Our consumer banking saw modest improvement on card income and service charges after troughing in early 2013.
Our global wealth and investment management business had a record year.
Our global banking had a record year as well with higher investment banking fees and stronger lending activity.
And our global markets business is performing well against the market opportunities that they’re seeing.
We kept our cost initiative work on track and credit improvement continues its track towards historic lows.
We also made significant progress in 2013 in continuing to resolve legacy mortgage matters with the more significant ones being settlements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on GSE rep and warranty issues MBIA in the monoline space and the Luther Maine State class action suit in the private label area of RMBS litigation.
And with that let’s go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
We’ll take our first question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
I was wondering in terms of the core net interest income you mentioned that the seasonally adjusted starting point for the first quarter would be 10.6 but it sounds like you expect that to keep grinding higher with the debt paydowns and rates being a little bit higher on the long end.
And the $300 million that we saw this quarter is that a good representation of the pace that core NII could grow at? I think if you look at what we saw during the quarter we had a series of benefits for the quarter.
If you look back at our tables the margin that we saw within some of the repo and other global markets lending activity was up nicely.
As you mentioned we benefited from the continued reduction in the long term debt footprint which was clearly a positive.
And we had a little bit of benefit even if you back out FAS 91 on the debt securities lines.
So I think those three things were clearly favorable.
We’ll have to see with respect to the markets margins as well as just overall rates where we go in the first quarter of ’14 relative to ’13.
I would be careful to assume that you’re going to see $300 million type improvements in the NII as we go forward on a quarter to quarter basis.
But over time with the work that we’re doing we would expect that number to continue to grind upwards all other things being equal.
Any material change in your interest rate sensitivity overall Bruce to long rates and/or short rates? I would say that whenever rates move up you tend to widen out a little bit as maturities extend in the mortgage space as rates move up.
So you always have a little bit of that in a rising rate environment although given where rates are we think we’re largely through that.
And the only other thing from an absolute liability management perspective I would note is that as it relates to both managing OCI risk as well as managing to LCR you saw it a little bit in the fourth quarter and you’ll see it a little bit more going forward that we are purchasing on the margin some additional treasuries given the treatment they have under LCR.
And then I was wondering if you or Brian could speak at a high level about how you approached this year’s CCAR.
Are you looking to grow your buybacks off of the $5 billion common request from last year? And do you feel that you’ve improved the earnings enough and consistency here to start moving the dividend up yet? We’re not going to comment on specific items with respect to the CCAR request.
I think we’ve been pretty consistent as we came into 2013 that we were focused on increasing the core profitability of the company.
And as you look at the last couple of quarters from an EPS perspective we think we’ve done a good job of that.
You can see the capital build that we’ve had and you can see the reduction in the legacy exposures that we’ve made.
So we feel like we did a good job of preparing ourselves for CCAR this year and we’re obviously working hard as we go through the rest of the process between now and mid-March.
And then last thing is you mentioned Bruce the 8.5% return on tangible and you know hope that that goes higher over time.
Your ROA was 64 basis points.
I guess what kind of goals do you have for ROA and ROE over the next few years and any thoughts on timelines that you hope to get there on? As we look out over the three years I’d say it’s more of the same for us but you can see a tangible common equity ratio that’s just over 7%.
The three metrics if we assume we stay at around that 7% level we were above it in the fourth quarter but if we stay at that level we’re looking to get to the point where we’re returning 1% on assets which translates into a 14% return on tangible common equity.
And those are the types of levels that we see ourselves looking to achieve over the course of the next three years.
We’ll move next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
One on the NIM discussion that we were just having.
When you look at what happened with the yield and the cost of funds it looks like you’re getting a little bit more competitive on non-resi consumer.
And just wondering how to think about how you’re looking to shift either the loan growth going forward and how you’re thinking about that loan yield relative to your cost of funds in an environment where NIB probably doesn’t grow as much as it had been in the past maybe your cost of funds is flattening out or potentially increasing a little bit.
I’m not sure exactly which piece you’re looking at Betsy but if you go back to our earnings supplement which is back on page 10 I think it’s interesting that you can see from the third quarter of ’13 to the fourth quarter of ’13 that our yields on residential mortgages did increase about 6 basis points to 3.74%.
And the other interesting thing is that we have started to see and be able to do more home equity type business with our core customers.
I think it’s interesting if you look at the yields on that portfolio they were up 20 basis points to just under 4% for the quarter.
So as we look at the yields and the rates that we’re able to get I think we’re competitive in the market and we’ve been able to see some slight increases within the rates that we’re able to earn.
Sure it’s an interesting mix shift because you’ve got a little bit of a shrinkage going on obviously with the legacy resi still coming off yet the yields there are increasing.
And on the non-resi consumer you’ve got some yield compression happening but your loan growth at the margin is inflecting more positively.
Cost of funds looks like it’s probably settling out here and potentially even going up a little bit.
NIB average balances were still up Q on Q but the period was down.
So that’s kind of the full context of the question.
You’ve got the [unintelligible] going through or the pay on both sides of the rate question and then we continue to see deposit pricing liability pricing came down the contribution of noninterest bearing size in the balance sheet continue to go up.
But just focusing on the production what’s really going to happen across the last several quarters that we’re seeing stabilization in some of the balances and the runoff portfolio impact gets smaller and smaller from some of the noncore portfolios they’re getting rid of.
But in the fourth quarter for example our direct auto which in 2013 our direct auto business - not our indirect but our direct-to-consumer auto - was up 55%.
The home equities in the fourth quarter were up almost 100% over the prior year’s fourth quarter.
Year over year they’re up 60%.
The card we had about 19% more production in the fourth quarter of ’13 versus ’12.
And the business banking small business area we’re seeing production up.
So we’re building the basics that are producing the balance growth.
And the pricing spreads are holding.
It’s competitive [unintelligible] middle market and things like that.
So I think it all serves us well largely having run off stuff that may have yielded high but may have high credit cost content you’ve got to remember and we’re replacing it with stuff that’s good in core and a great credit quality.
And so we’re seeing a shift a little bit from the commercial loan growth which was really more positive to where the consumer loan growth was starting to stabilize and come along.
When do you think you get that inflection point in loan growth? Clearly it’s a function of legacy basically not weighing on the loan growth overall.
When does that inflection point happen? If you look at the various portfolios I think in card we’ve kind of seen it.
As Bruce talked about we got a sale.
I think in home equity you’ve still got a ways to go because remember we’ve got about 40% or so of our home equity is still in the noncore portfolio.
And then I think in the commercial side you’ve seen the straight growth whether it’s large corporate or commercial middle market.
So I think that would be the overall summary.
I think it sort of came through from the corporate activity moved faster to the small business activity and then the consumer activity but we’re stabilized in most of the portfolios and growing.
And then just turning to the mortgage for a moment on LAS expenses did I hear you right that you are looking for LAS expenses to be at about $1 billion at year-end? Is that correct on a quarterly basis 4Q ’14? Yeah we called it roughly $1.1 billion.
Okay so that’s an uptick right from what you had been saying before sub $1 billion by year-end? Yeah that’s correct.
It’s about $100 million higher than what we had said before.
And I think the work that we’re starting take a step back that we got through roughly $400 million during this quarter which was a little bit better than we would have expected to do.
So we felt very good about that.
And if you look at the number of 60-plus day delinquent loans it came all the way down to 325 000 loans.
So what we’re going to be working on over the course of the next 90 days is a little bit of a reset of that expense base so that we can continue to drive that number down.
That $1.1 billion doesn’t reflect that but given the work and the activity levels So $1.1 billion by year-end ’14.
Is there still runway in ’15 to bring that down further? We’ve been consistent that we would expect and look to end 2015 at roughly $500 million a quarter.
And then just lastly on the litigation reserving you called out the $2 billion litigation reserve for the mortgage business highlighted that that reflects a lot of the litigation risk you think you have.
The question we get from people is how many more quarters of this should we build in going forward? Because you do still have some lumpiness in the lawsuits that you face.
That’s always a tough quarter.
I think what I’d say is that there was obviously a lot of new learning that we saw during the fourth quarter of this year and as a result of that we adjusted the reserves for the legacy exposures to reflect that which we learned.
And as we’ve said it was largely with respect to RMBS litigation.
And beyond that it’s just a number that’s difficult to predict.
Our next question comes from Matthew O’Connor of Deutsche Bank.
We’re seeing some peers that came out yesterday actually increasing liquidity and long term debt levels to meet the LCR.
I think you guys are starting at a higher point maybe than they were but just give us a sense of maybe where you are for LCR under the current proposals.
And as we think about kind of the net impact of long term debt running off at the holding company increasing at the bank how does that all shake out on a net basis this year? I’ll let Bruce talk you through it but we’ve got to remember how we got here which is just you know with the legacy set of companies put together they had debt structures that were built for their company and their industry without the core funding that we have.
So we’re coming down to a level most of our peers were below and they may be coming up a little bit.
So you’ve got to remember that whether it’s [unintelligible] or Merrill Lynch the funding structure was so different.
So we had like $400 billion of long term debt we’ve been bringing down and the size of the balance sheet shrank.
We started off at about $2.5 trillion and we’re down to $2.1 trillion.
So I’d be careful about comparing where they’re going versus where we’re going based on this just because what we had is different from what they started with.
And then Bruce can talk about what we think from where we are now going forward.
As we look out I think at the parent company as we look at and with our understanding of the LCR ratio we are in the 100% area as it relates to LCR.
So at the parent you can look at us being where we need to be based on 2017 levels.
The one area that we will look to do more in and I highlighted it is to further build and take out more term financing within the bank levels to look to build that.
So I think we’re in great shape at the parent.
We’re in great shape at the banks but you will see us doing a little bit more bank financing activity to be able to meet those requirements.
And if you look at where we’ve financed it at the banks there’s no incremental cost for that that’s different than what we’ve communicated before.
And the other thing I would just point out on the overall debt footprint and the cost of it is with the work that we’ve done on the balance sheet and with where our credit spreads are now in the market we will be refinancing our debt at lower rates than the debt that’s coming off of the books as it matures.
And with the parent being around 100% right now any sense of how much cushion you want? I think some banks are running at maybe a 15% cushion.
Some banks are still trying to get to where you’re at.
I think to project a cushion three years out I think we clearly are going to run at a cushion.
We’re going to run the company.
So this is not an issue.
But until we get out to 2016 and 2017 and understand the exact composition as well as any puts and takes that we’re seeing it’s probably a little bit premature to talk about a cushion.
The focus has been to get to the 100% at the parent immediately so it’s not an issue to discuss.
And then just separately we saw out of JPMorgan yesterday a one-time valuation adjustment on certain derivatives.
And just wondering is that applicable to you? Or have you been absorbing it over time or still to come? It’s obviously applicable to anyone that has an uncollateralized derivative book.
So it is applicable to us.
I think that clearly the industry view and how you account for FVA is still very much evolving.
JPMorgan obviously came out today with their adoption and as a company it’s something that we continue to evaluate.
I think the important thing to remember when you look at this and I’m sure you know this is just that this is a question of do you take a reserve for something that you earn back over the average life of your uncollateralized balances? So it’s not something that changes the core economics of the activities that we’re doing.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
On the balance sheet migration over the past year cash and equivalents up 19% repo; trading assets and derivative assets all down say 10-14%.
Is that a function of some of the sluggishness on the trading side during the year in the market and it’s just a reaction to what’s out there? Or is this your intent to get on [size] for SLR and LCR? I would say that as we look at and what we’ve said is from an LCR and an SLR basis given that we’re at the levels at the parent and then with respect to the supplementary leverage ratio at the banks given we’re at the levels that we need to be that phase in between 2015 and 2019 there’s not anything directly related to those given that we’re in great shape with respect to those.
What I would say is that as we move forward and as we look at the bank level and some of the rules you will see us on average carrying a little bit more cash at those levels.
And you saw that as you look at the year-end numbers.
And as it relates to the different repo activity and the like within the global markets business you continue to look to manage and balance what’s the size of that book how it affects the overall size of the company and the yield that you’re able to achieve.
And I think that was one of the things as some of these different regs come out that we feel good that if you look at the repo book we were up 7 basis points from an average yield perspective Q3 and Q4.
So those are numbers that are going to ebb and flow but I would say directionally we feel very good about where balance sheet is.
Our approach has been as these rules come out to put ourselves in compliance or whatever the right word would be immediately not wait so that we didn’t have it hanging over us.
You know could you get to the LCR could you get to the supplemental leverage? So we just said position the balance sheet.
But what I’d say is as you look at the company’s sort of constitution in terms of business mix and balance sheet mix at the year-end ’13 we’re very comfortable with that.
So there will be ebbs and flows loans will grow here or maybe market [we’ll use] a little more balance sheet on a given quarter.
But Tom and the team have done a good job at sorting being able to face against the customers and maintaining our strong market position in all our businesses investment banking sales trading fixed income and equities both while at the same time bringing the balance sheet year over year down.
But we’re completely comfortable with it being in the size range it is now and expect it to stay roughly in there.
So I don’t think we’d see massive changes in how the company looks to comply with rules because we’re already in compliance.
And global markets the trading in absolute numbers and relative to some peers is pretty good.
The question I have is if you look at the return on capital or the return on average assets it’s pretty low.
I’m curious how much litigation cost dented that? Because I know it dented it we just can’t say exactly how much.
And are these metrics we should be looking at on a consistent basis? They’re in the supplement.
I’m assuming they mean something I just don’t know if the capital allocations and the asset allocations are fair things to judge on.
I think as it relates to the capital allocations that they clearly are and one of the things that if you look back in the footnotes that we highlighted is we will refresh those allocations in 2014 and continue to have more capital pushed out within the businesses.
As you look at the returns within the markets business I think you need to adjust for two numbers when you look at those.
The litigation number within the markets business was north of $600 million for the quarter and then you had another $200 million during the quarter for DVA.
So when you look at the returns you need to adjust for those two numbers and realize that in the fourth quarter you’re looking at what’s seasonally the slowest quarter.
Final one is in mortgage.
I think there was a bit of a hiatus as you’re getting things battened down.
I think you picked up about 100 basis points market share since then on the retail side.
Just curious for an update on how the fourth quarter looked and then your thoughts on going out in terms of intentions to continue to push that share higher.
I think if you look at it you can calculate the statistics but we were down.
We had two things going on during ’13 in the second half especially as the HARP volume started to fall off because we sized our portfolio down in terms of total servicing size.
So our HARP opportunity went down and then obviously as rates went up sort of mid-year out the volumes dropped.
And so the third quarter the pipeline pulled through and helped us get $20-odd billion in the fourth quarter down to $11 billion.
But if you look at it sort of the non-HARP share we are pleased with the progress we’re making and we’ll continue to direct to consumer grind that forward from where we are now to about $9 billion this past quarter.
And so I think we’re fine.
It’s going to be a business that we shape to serve the customer and the wealth management business does a couple billion in the quarter.
It’s a good solid position.
I would say in January with the rates moving down a little bit and stuff you saw another tick up of about 20-25% in application volume in our book already.
Now I don’t know if that holds and how much is seasonality because of the way Christmas and New Year’s fell this year and things like that as we move through the month but it immediately picked up over the last several days as rates moved a little bit in our favor.
And the purchase volume has also moved up in January.
So we’re looking for this business to start to grow again but it obviously suffered both the rate effect and also the HARP effect in the fourth quarter.
We’ll move next to Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
I wanted to come back to the debt footprint discussion and just looking on page 11 you can see total average long term debt down $27 billion year over year.
And at the same time looking at page 7 of the presentation the time to required funding expanded from 33 months to 38 months.
So I’m just curious is there some other liability that is extending while you’re bringing down the debt footprint? And how can we gauge for the year ahead? What I’m getting at is how can we triangulate on how much further room there might be in the debt reduction? I think the important thing and if I understand your question when you look at the time to required funding there are a couple of components that go into that.
There’s the amount of liquidity that you have at the parent obviously and then what the debt footprint is over the course of the period of time that you’re measuring it.
And if you look at what we’ve done we’ve basically if you looked at our company at the end of 2012 we had $70 billion of debt maturities that we needed to work through over the course of 2013 and 2014.
And you obviously need to carry significant amounts of liquidity to be able to basically meet your time to required funding when it’s that lumpy.
What we’ve done is between the debt that we repaid this year as well as the activity you saw when we tendered for debt several times in 2013 for debt that was maturing in 2014 was to knock down those maturity profiles.
So you’re asking a very good question which is over time what you should expect us to be able to do is continue to move the parent company funding down.
And as we flatten out those debt maturities we’ll be able to do that and not have nearly the impact on time to required funding because the maturity profile will be much flatter.
And then as a follow up looking at your 10-K and 10-Q you give us a very nice breakdown of the debt by parent company versus Merrill versus BofA NA and your parent company looks like at least between year-end and September like it was relatively flat.
And the declines in the long term debt came primarily from Merrill Lynch going from like $90 billion to $60 billion.
Does Merrill Lynch as an entity need to continue to pay down debt? Or can that essentially be all squeezed into other subsidiaries? And does that have an impact on the cost of funds? A couple of things.
Keep in mind we told you when we reported third quarter earnings that the Merrill Lynch holding company that had previously issued debt before the merger of the two companies that has been merged into the BAC holding company.
So when you look at that debt profile realize today it’s one and the same.
So I think the important thing I would look at is on page seven and what we do is we give you the actual what we consider parent company.
And that parent company back in previous quarters prior to ML &amp; Co.
and BAC merging is a combined number.
So if you look at those red bars on the bottom on page seven that is the combined debt footprint of the two companies that is now one.
And you can see that over the course of five quarters migrating down.
Our next question is from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just a couple of quick follow ups.
On your Basel III tier one common the standardized versus advanced you have I guess almost a 90 basis point difference.
Some of your large bank peers are closer to a 10 basis point difference.
Can you help us think about why you have such a large gap between the standardized and advanced? The first thing I would say is that generally we would expect that gap to narrow over time.
But as you look at the actual content of it I think the biggest reason that you have is just given the percentage in some of our commercial loan balances that we have relative to our peers that under Basel III advanced get impacted significantly based on the actual credit quality where when you go to standardized it’s just 100%.
So I think the first thing is you do have some of that activity or difference between the two metrics.
And then I would say that the second thing is that we still do have some assets that under Basel III standardized do get some fairly risk weightings that we will continue to work off over the next couple of years.
So there’s no question relative to what we’ve seen out there we’re a little bit wider.
I think those are a couple of the differences.
And as I said I’d expect over the course of the next 12 to 18 months you’ll see that gap tighten.
So on the commercial side as credit gets better we should see that gap close for that reason? No.
The commercial credit getting better that’s not going to lead to it getting tighter because under standardized a commercial loan is a commercial loan.
There’s no benefit of credit quality.
It’s going to be more the runoff of some of the different positions that we have within the company as opposed to anything specific on commercial.
And then just a follow up on your eventual ROE target or a tangible ROE of 14% when you’re kind of discussing that target is that assuming some help from interest rates being higher? Or is that without that help? As we look at 2015 2016 we don’t do anything besides just look out at the forward curve.
So you do get a little bit of benefit at the very end of ’15 and a little bit more so in 2016.
So there is embedded some of that.
At the same time to the extent that we’re not in an environment in an economy that’s growing and we’re seeing some of that movement up in short term rates if we’re not seeing that then there are other actions that we’re going to need to take within the company.
Our next question comes from Steven Chubak of Nomura Securities.
One thing that we did see over the past year is a pretty robust pace of DTA consumption which certainly helped boost your capital ratios.
I know when contemplating DTA utilization the mechanics can be quite complicated but how should we think about the potential level of progress as we enter 2014 as your earnings profile continues to improve? As we work through 2014 a fairly healthy percentage of what would show up in the tax provision line will not reduce our regulatory capital.
And as we go out in ’15 and beyond how quickly the balance of that goes is going to be a function of profitability.
But what I would say is that as it relates to working through the DTA and it is a complicated calculation that we should get a very large amount of what we pay in taxes back in regulatory capital during 2014.
And then just thinking about some of the profitability targets you highlighted such as the 14% tangible ROE what are you guys assuming in terms of capital return over that potential horizon? Unfortunately I can’t answer a way around we’re not going to give any more guidance on CCAR than we’ve already given.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets.
On the origination side you did talk a little bit about that you’re improving your retail side but the refis have gone down.
You’re down to like 4.5%.
Where do you see your market share? And where do you think you can take your retail market share? And also what do you think about non-QMs? I know some banks have come out and said they will start doing some non-QMs.
I didn’t know where you stand on that.
We think that ultimately if you look at our market share and other product capabilities given the ebbs and flows of the rate environment and you know faster refis lower refis whatever’s going on.
We have a 10% or 13% deposit share we think in consumer deposits.
We have a higher percent in cards etc.
Home equity is bigger.
We should be pushing towards upper single digit level in mortgage.
It just will take time because we’re rebuilding that process which was not geared toward serving the core customers and just doing it and the team’s been doing a good job of building that fairly steadily.
And the purchase volume percent I think is in the 30s this quarter.
And so we’re getting there.
So that’s our goal.
It will just take us time and we’ll drive that.
But in terms of the direct to consumer production I think we’re second largest now and we plan to keep driving that.
On the non-QM and things like that we’ll meet the needs of our customers by using our balance sheet because remember we do a lot of mortgages today through our wealth management business and stuff.
And so we’ll work through the rules.
But for the standard products obviously for the general consumer and the Fannie eligible Freddie eligible FHA type products we’ll be following all the rules and making sure they go through the standard process to get them off the balance sheet and into the securitization process.
But in terms of putting stuff on the balance sheet I think we meet the needs of customers and we’ve been doing it for years.
And on the jumbo loans I know a lot of the institutions are going after the jumbo product.
You don’t break out your jumbo product but is that an area of focus for you guys? And if it is what types of yields are you getting on that product? Inherently when you have one of the largest wealth management businesses as a focus so of our production about 20-odd percent comes from the wealth management business and the yields on the product are competitive.
We have to compete in the market so it’s a market-driven business.
It obviously depends on the product you know floating versus fixed.
But you’re clearly seeing credit spreads on a floating basis for some of those customers and the spreads of 100 to 150 basis points from a floating rate perspective.
And is there any update on the state of New York where they stand with approving the Bank of New York settlement of $8.5 billion? Do we know when that’s going to come to a conclusion? We do not.
There’s no update at all besides the fact that the trial’s over and at this point you know what we know.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
A couple of things.
In the mortgage business I noticed that it looked like the revenue stream from the LAS servicing actually went up from the third quarter.
Is that something that will remain at that level? Or does that come down with the servicing assets? I think you need to look at within legacy assets and servicing I know it’s completely counterintuitive but recall that the reps and warrants is a [contra] revenue line item.
So we had the lower rep and warrant provision for the quarter was the big delta.
In terms of the card business you talked about the 1 million plus accounts and you’ve kind of done that both third and fourth quarter.
Just talk a little bit maybe more generally about the strategy there.
Are there any things that you’re doing to kind of maintain or increase that? And also kind of on the other side are there other affinity portfolios that your partners are going to ask for back as we go into ’14? I’d say on the affinity side we basically repositioned that business as a loss for three or four years and I think we’re kind of where we are at this point.
The strong affinity partners we have that have done well we continue to support them and continue to drive production there.
Think about the Cash 123 product the balance rewards and the travel rewards products core products that we continue to drive.
And the production of those products continues to be up significantly year over year and that’s what’s driving us from a couple of years ago maybe 700 000 cards a quarter maybe up to a million-ish now per quarter.
And so that is good because it is our core branded product with a great product for the consumer and they use it.
And so what you’re seeing as you look at some of the detail we give you in the supplement and stuff you’ll see that the average spending is going up the average spending per card is going up.
And so that obviously is more efficient and is an indicator that you’re becoming the primary card in the wallet for customers.
With that though one of the drags is the spend rate.
We’re in the low 20s on payment rate.
In other words the people who are paying us and not carrying balances because of the affluent customers.
So that’s a little bit of drag.
But they charge enough that you can make it through the interchange.
So we’re very comfortable with the business.
We spent three or four years on positioning.
But the good news is with the credit quality that we’ve seen from originations [unintelligible] and things like that we’re getting the 9% risk adjusted margin.
So we’ve ended up with the right spot where we’re getting production growth i.e.
more cards with our direct customers with a good strong margin.
And we like that.
Then you might say well why don’t you push it harder because it’s returning so well? The issue is to do that you have to go to places where I think it’s not our core strength.
And so you should expect us to just grind forward on that.
Following up on the DTA question how do you think about and how do you believe the Fed thinks about that DTA consumption kind of as part of a CCAR submission? I think the interesting thing is that as you move forward and you look to test under Basel III NOLs are not eligible as capital under Basel III.
So there’s good news and there’s bad news.
The bad news is you don’t get to count it the good news is that it eliminates the likelihood that you have a difference relative to the way somebody else looks at your deferred tax position.
So given that CCAR is based on the way regulatory capital works that’s how the deferred tax assets flow through.
And once again under Basel III you don’t get to count NOLs.
So you’re saying they do consider the capital generation as opposed to just your earnings? I can’t comment on the way the Federal Reserve looks at that but our belief is that’s correct.
The point would be this year you’re sort of in transition but as you go forward and the expectation is you move to Basel III it becomes sort of a nonelement and it’s out of the calculation already.
We’ll take our next question from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Question on how we should think about the fact that last year your capital return really included not just the buyback authorization of shares but also the redemption of the preferreds.
So you could add the two numbers together and say $10.5 billion out of last year’s CCAR.
Is there some conversion factor that we should think of for the preferreds in terms of saying what the 2013 baseline really was? As you look at the preferred that we redeemed the yields on those preferreds were between 8% and 9%.
And once again I’m not going to speak for the Federal Reserve but I think most people looked at that and said… at least the way we looked at it was that we look at the heavy content of tier common that we have and you look at preferred that’s 8% to 9% after tax.
And I think most people would look at that and say it makes good corporate finance sense and it’s a good thing for Bank of America to retire those.
Given the work that we’ve done on the balance sheet you can see that the majority of what we have left from a preferred stock perspective is priced at competitive rates.
So I would be very careful to thinking of and including that preferred stock redemption and assuming that it was evaluated as common stock.
Right but is there a factor that you use in thinking about what it would convert into in terms of the capital return? No because it was straight preferred stock.
It had no conversion features whatsoever.
I’ve had a number of clients ask me the question this morning about the significant increase in the yield on the securities portfolio just from the third quarter to the fourth and obviously long rates are up a lot.
But is it just that or can you link that to the couple hundred million dollar benefit that you were talking about in terms of the market related impact? No you’re absolutely correct.
If you adjust for the FAS 91 the delta Q3 to Q4 the increase was only 2 basis points.
And I know you said that on the SLR with the Basel add ons you’re still evaluating that.
But JPMorgan was out saying yesterday that their estimate was that it probably only increased above and beyond the NPR.
Sorry decreased their leverage ratio by about 10 basis points.
Are you thinking similar order of magnitude? Or are you really not in a position to comment at all at this point? I’ll make a couple of comments on that and you know we’ve got teams as you can imagine culling data and spending a lot of time with it.
The couple comments I would make is that the changes that were made from prior BCBS rules to the new rules as it relates to both the credit conversion factor as well as the netting for securities financing transactions clearly are less punitive than what the original BCBS proposals were.
I would say on a very preliminary basis as we look at it I would say that we think that the impact to us is a little bit more than what JPMorgan quoted.
That being said with our ratios above 5% at the parent and above 6% at each of the banks coming into this we feel like we’re in very good shape with respect to compliance with the supplementary leverage ratio.
And then I guess the final question that I’d have for you and it’s along the lines of some of the ones you’ve been asked about you know further reductions in the long term debt footprint.
Obviously there’s been some speechifying by members of the Fed about not seeing banks reduce their long term debt levels much below where they are now.
Is there some rule of thumb that you guys are using in the absence of any defined orderly liquidation or [bail] in capital definition yet as to what you would want your total long term debt plus tier one capital to look like as a percentage of risk-weighted assets that you’re using as a guidepost to help you figure out how much long term debt to bring down? I’ll let Bruce give you his thoughts on that from his perspective but before we get to it you’ve got to remember what I said earlier is our company has shrunk and our equity has gone up.
So when you think about that if you shrunk the company about $300 billion to $400 billion in size across the last three or four years and your equity balance has gone up and your deposit balance has gone up what you’re going to do to balance the balance sheet is take the long term debt footprint down.
That is because we fundamentally got rid of a lot of businesses and assets and things that weren’t necessary to do what we do today.
So there’s just a difference between us and our peers who have been more organic in how they came together in the last few years.
So I’d just be careful.
Obviously we work with the Fed and all this redemption [unintelligible] like we can make the capital plans and as you said liquidation authority and structure but a lot of our reduction has come by shrinking the scope of the company and the $2.1 trillion and change from $2.4 trillion to $2.5 trillion.
And that’s going to allow us to sort of reshape and get rid of assets that were noncore and not yielding.
So I’ll let Bruce answer sort of the rules but remember we started from a different place because as someone said earlier Merrill had a lot of debt because they didn’t have the deposit funding we did.
We hear the same thing that you do.
We hear the numbers quoted of very high teens that you need to be at from a common plus your debt footprint that’s greater than a year.
If we look at where we are today from that metric we’re in the low 20s today which as we compare ourselves to our peers is higher than where our peers are.
I think what you’re going to see as we go forward and I referenced this earlier this is the last year of big debt maturities where we’ve got north of $30 billion at the parent that comes due.
So I think what you’ll see for us going forward is you’ll see us issue less today at the parent than what matures at the parent.
As you get out to ’15 and beyond it tends to be much more a $20 billion a year type maturity profile.
And the impact in ’15 and beyond assuming we continue to do what we should with the balance sheet the impact in ’15 and beyond is going to be more about the cost at which we’re raising debt relative to the debt that we’re retiring whereas we do have one more year which is this year of shrinking the actual total amount.
We’ll move next to Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo.
First I guess the bigger picture question and then just a couple of administrative questions.
You’ve mentioned a couple of times your view about cards and the progress you’re making not only in getting cards in the hands of your customers but also the use that your customers are taking with the cards in terms of charging more.
I guess I’m just curious as to what your outlook is for actual balance growth over the course of 2014 presuming that we are in a somewhat better economic environment this year versus the last couple of years.
A couple of things would drive that.
If you look at the last three or four quarters you can see that we kind of flattened out.
Around the holidays you get a seasonal bump and it comes out so Bruce said earlier that you should expect the card balances to come down in the first quarter just because of that.
But if you look at it it’s been $90-odd billion in the U.S.
business consistently.
What we did see in the latter part of last year is more usage on the credit side which from a general economy perspective is actually good news in that people were using the credit versus debit and we look at the usage of our cards and what they’re used for in a given quarter.
So credit spending was up better among all the customer bases in October and November and in December.
So I’d say we’re set up because we’ve gotten rid of the balances of the cards that we were running off and that’s really a very low percentage now to have the thing stabilize.
I don’t think it will have large balance growth because it will kind of work with our customers and what they’re doing.
And we have a substantial part of the people who pay us off.
But the good news is underlying you have seen a little more credit usage fundamentally in the last couple of quarters.
And then Bruce I think you mentioned a couple of quarters ago that you were targeting a branch count for the company in round numbers around 5 000.
You’re basically there as of the end of this year.
Is there potentially a push to get that number materially below 5 000 or at this point do you think you are where you want to be? When I referenced the 5 000 that was in the context of starting at just under 6 000 branches and the work that we were doing with respect to new BAC.
I’d say that we continue to track towards that 5 000 number.
What’s probably a little bit different from what we saw in new BAC is that we’ve been able to actually sell some of those branches that are for us out of market to local banks as they look to build up their local presences which I think is a good thing for everyone.
And as we look forward I think there will be a condition evaluation that we have at this point as to the opportunity and the cost versus the benefit of the branches.
But I would directionally think of us being 5 000 maybe a few less than that before the end of 2014.
And there’ll be a continued evaluation that we’ll have beyond have the ability to.
We’d always focused people on the branch count because it was a fairly effective way to show how we were trying to do it.
The reality now is as you look at the different formats we’re always putting new branches in the market as leases run off repositioning the branch consolidating branches and adding these express formats that we’re testing and stuff.
So the definition of a branch is changing in terms of what you would traditionally think.
And so after period which Bruce talked about you’re really going to be where the customer is leading you.
But the branches are critically important and you always use the example in one market we were able to take four branches and put them in one larger one have the Merrill team [unintelligible] commercial banking teammates and the core personal bankers and teammates in the branch.
So we don’t know exactly where this goes because it will be dependent upon customer behavior but what we do know is we have to dominate the physical side and the ecommerce online mobile side at the same time and that’s why we’re investing heavily in both platforms.
So we have probably a half a billion dollars we put in the online mobile platform across the last three or four years and we’ll continue to invest at that rate.
And you can see the feature functionality return and the usage of that platform has grown tremendously.
For example in the fourth quarter of ’13 % of all the checks deposited by consumers went through the iPads and mobile phones.
That was up from 7% the quarter before.
And didn’t exist until basically the third quarter of ’12.
And so that’s what we’re driving because of customer convenience and usage.
At the same time we have 8 million customers coming into our branch and the engagement rate for those customers is going up.
And so the team is less about what number of branches and more about how the distribution process works between phones and ATMs and mobile and branches and express branches ATAs which are tellers through the branch.
And then we’re deploying more people to sell in all those regards.
And that’s what we’re trying to do.
So presumably over the next two to three years you could see the square footage of the total branch base come down potentially fairly dramatically given all the electronic delivery mechanisms that you just mentioned? Yes dedicated to transactions but the square footage dedicated to sales could increase.
And then just finally what was your percentage of mortgage volume this quarter that was dedicated to purchase? And how does that compare to the third quarter? 32% was purchase this quarter.
And I think it was 21% in the previous period.
We’ll move next to Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
I think we all appreciate the tremendous progress you’ve made on increasing profitability at the company and getting things turned around but there is a perception out there that you’re going to have a gap up in profitability when short rates start to go up.
Can you just give me your thoughts about that? Is that indeed a correct view? You know in each quarter we look at our asset sensitivity on the balance sheet and our constant metric that we look at is what does 100 basis points do to our net interest income and obviously that flows directly to the bottom line.
And at the end of the year a 100 basis point move up was worth between $3 billion and $3.1 billion to us from a net interest income perspective.
So we clearly will benefit from short term rates.
We obviously don’t control that and so I think the important thing is that as we look at near term benefits that we have we continue to have a lot of work to do on expenses in both 2014 and 2015 because we’ve got another $500 million a quarter of new BAC savings that will get implemented between end of ’13 and end of ’14.
And then with the guidance that we gave today another $700 million a quarter to get out going into 2014 to where we end 2014.
So we do look forward to those days of higher rates but in the meantime we’ve got a nice chunk of expenses to get out that we do not believe will impact the revenue generating ability of the company.
And just kind of to add on to that do you have a sense at this point - and this sort of goes back to the previous question - when rates do start up given everything you’ve done in the deposit gathering network how profitable will that be in the next cycle as opposed to let’s say three or four years ago? If you look at page 11 where we give the profitability of the consumer business banking and that’s obviously the one that benefits the most by the short term rate rise because the constitution of deposits is non-interest bearing and it picks it up.
And you can look at the returns there in the supplement.
And you can see we’re up to about $2 billion in after tax income and the returns clearly exceed the cost of capital.
And it will benefit but in the meantime what we’ll be doing is driving the cost structure down.
In the deposit franchise almost 300 basis points of cost to run the deposit franchise as a percentage of deposits down to 200 in opening that up.
So it will absolutely help that business.
But meanwhile it earned $200 million this quarter after tax which is not bad either.
We’ll go next to Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Just one small question also on the mortgage business.
Doing the simple gain on sale mathematics it looks like you had a rebound in your gain on sale sequentially which is pretty consistent with what we’ve seen from others.
But the magnitude looked much greater.
It looked as if your gain on sale in the period was back to more or less year-ago levels which doesn’t seem intuitively right.
So I just wanted to get your view on that.
Yeah there was one piece internally between the home loan space within LAS and what we have in all other.
So if you adjusted that out you’re not seeing material changes in the gain on sale.
The core production margins have come down and stayed pretty flat.
Don’t read into that that we’re doing something different.
So just sequentially you would characterize the margins as largely flat? Is that right? Yes.
We’ll move next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
You said the banking backlog was up.
Was that versus the third quarter or year over year? And can you quantify that? I think I characterized the backlog as strong at this point.
And I would say it’s strong both relative to the third quarter as well as to the year ago period.
And which areas in particular? The interesting thing that we’ve seen coming into this is that the M&amp;A business and if you look at activity levels and just what’s been announced over the course of the last week that it does feel like some of the M&amp;A deals that are being talked about are going to happen.
Obviously there are a number of them that are still being negotiated and may or may not happen but M&amp;A activity clearly feels like it’s beginning to pick up and ramp up from what we’ve seen.
You saw within the overall debt businesses very good growth both year over year as well as linked quarter and I would say that that business as well as the market conditions continue to be quite strong.
And you then move to the equity side the fourth quarter was obviously a very good quarter from an IPO perspective.
And typically coming into the year you have a little bit less visibility on that because a lot of that tends to happen after people wrap up their year-end numbers.
But given overall valuations and what we’re seeing we’re optimistic on the equity side as well.
So I think there’s not one piece that we look at within those pipelines that don’t feel pretty good.
And the only thing I’d say as a cautionary note is that you are comping against a period that’s the highest investment banking revenue period we’ve ever seen in the history of the company.
And then switching gears the wealth management margin 26.6% can you give that to us excluding U.S.
Trust? It just helps with apples to apples comparisons with peers.
U.S.
Trust adds maybe 150 to 200 basis points.
So that gives you a sense of it.
But what drives our margins is what I said before.
It’s the holistic nature of the Merrill Lynch wealth management business.
Because they have the wonderful classic investment business but also they have a good deposit base and a good loan base and all the work the team does there under John Thiel.
But it adds about 150 to 200 basis points.
And loan utilization in commercial and wholesale where does that stand? Within commercial So no change? No change.
The only thing that we are seeing that’s a little bit of a change and we’ve talked about it before is if you look at the amount of funded commercial and corporate loans relative to our total commitments that’s been very much a focus of what Tom’s looked at.
And we’ve seen that migrate up to where it’s just under 50%.
So while we’re not seeing line utilization as much we are seeing across our commercial and corporate books that the funded commitments relative to total commitments has increased.
And I wasn’t sure what is your net interest margin outlook for the next quarter or two? And you mentioned FAS 91 for the debt security yield.
To what degree if the yield curve has flattened a little bit here recently do you get some of that back with that net interest margin? We talked about that which drove the margin in the fourth quarter.
I would say that across the board the margin was very strong in the fourth quarter.
So you’ve seen numbers in the low 240s.
You’ve seen it at 251.
I would think about that being generally range-bound at this point in time with what we see.
And with regard to new BAC could you just repeat how much do you have left and how much do you think hits the bottom line this quarter.
You spent a little bit more money for revenues which I guess makes sense if you have the opportunity.
But I just want to size that again.
We’ve said that we’ve got $500 million to get through over the course of the next four quarters.
And I would say that’s going to generally be earned over time.
So I wouldn’t think of it being any more than 100 to 125 is generally the way that you’ll see it phase in.
I’m sorry like $100 million to $125 million per quarter then and that should hit the bottom line? Or you might look at reinvesting those gains? Well we’ve committed to saying that our new BAC savings have to be net savings to the company with the caveat that to the extent that businesses are doing more revenues from where we started that we’ll pay out.
And that’s what we did see during the fourth quarter from both the global banking side as well as wealth management.
Keep in mind and I think this is important as you look at the first quarter we’ve got two things that generally happen in the first quarter one that we know does and one historically the trend would suggest it does.
I mentioned the FAS 123 that you have in the first quarter.
We know that’s going to be an incremental $900 million.
The other thing that historically has been true is that the sales and trading business the first quarter historically is the most significant quarter within that business.
So the incentive compensation given that we accrue based on revenues tends to be seasonally highest in the first quarter.
And you add that plus the $900 million I mentioned and it’s not an insignificant number.
So we once again feel very good we’ll get the new BAC savings on a net basis over the course of ’14.
Just realize the first quarter has those two components.
And then lastly you mentioned the goal for an ROA of 1% over three years.
And I just wanted to understand what you mean by that.
Do you mean at the end of 2016 going into 2017 you look to have an ROA of 1%? Or do you mean the average over these three years?  What we’re referencing is as we look out over three years at the end of the third year that’s where we would look to get to which given our current leverage profile is around 14% on tangible common.
Okay so at the end of 2016 you look to have an ROA of 1% with the forward curve the way it stands.
And with those assumptions what sort of change do you expect with the certificates of deposit or CDs which are historically low for you and others? Do you have money moving out of CDs at that point or not yet? You’re around 15% of deposits.
Historically it’s around 35%.
I would say the general expectation should be that that number is going to be at or probably move down a touch from where we are today given the performance of the core deposit franchise.
And then on page 49 of the proxy it mentions PRSUs and they kick in with an ROA of only 0.5% whereas you seem to be shooting for an ROA of 1%.
How will your new expectations for the next three years translate into more formalized metrics or compensation? Is it more than simply a general target? How does it sink into the organization? I think the targets that we have for performance we’ll put out in the proxy this year when the board goes through the process over the next several weeks.
But I think in the past it’s been based on getting us back to a level of profitability in the company and that’s what is reflected.
And in very simple terms if you look for a 1% ROA on $2 trillion of assets you hope to be at kind of a $2 annual run rate in the later 2016? The one piece and once again we’re not going to give it is that if you’re just doing that simple math you’ve not made any assumption with respect to the change in shares.
So once again given that we’re in the middle of CCAR we’re not going to comment on that.
But you do have some benefit over time through share count.
We’ll move next to the site of Derek De Vries of UBS.
I just had two questions.
First I think in the December conference you mentioned that there’s been a 70% increase in referrals to wealth management from other parts of BAC.
I’m just wondering if you could elaborate on that a little bit.
Is that environment driven? Or have you implemented some specific programs? And then maybe just give us a sense of how meaningful those referrals have been at the net income level? We have a very stringent program that’s driven in each market by our market presence teammates where count the referrals that go in we count the close rate and who participates and all that.
And then markets are stack ranked and we monitor monthly to see how they’re doing and reward the people doing well.
Then we set aggressive goals.
And this year for 2013 they hit all the goals.
Every market was in good shape.
And so it is a fundamental way our teams operate in the markets together.
When you get to specifically the things that work well for wealth management you have the connectivity when there are liquidity events so called business sales IPOs and things like that where we bring in business we’ll look at through November and I haven’t seen a final count yet we had about 675 401k retirement plan closed sales in 2013.
We had about 200 and some in 2012.
And that is driven through the Merrill retirement plan business that Amy [unintelligible] and John Field drive and delivered between national teams and the financial advisors in the market.
So that gives you kind of a sense of how this works.
The dollars from that I think are in the $5 billion to $6 billion range if I remember exactly.
So it’s all those types of flows.
And then several tens of thousands of customers come from the consumer bank into the wealth management platform referred from the preferred teams.
But that goes on and those customers come into the branch that have asset bases that are consistent with Merrill Lynch and U.S.
Trust service models.
We move them in.
So it’s a whole bunch of things but it’s tracked literally person by person to make sure it happens.
But frankly the teams like to work together and win in the market and that’s what you see when you go into our markets and talk to the teams that do it.
And then switching gears entirely just talk about the leveraged finance business.
I think when you look at the industry you’re seeing record [covenant light] issuance and you’re seeing some pretty favorable pricing for issuers.
How do you think about this business over the next few years both from a revenue perspective but also from a risk management perspective? The leveraged finance business is a very good business for us.
If you look at historically we are number one or two in that business.
And if you look at on an overall basis our debt origination both investment grade as well as non-investment grade it tends to be an $800 million to $1 billion a quarter type revenue stream.
And we believe particularly given some of the new capital guidelines and the competitive landscape that we are doing better in that business than we have.
From the risk management perspective of it you’ve got two different components of it.
You have the underwrite to distribute component to it which one of the most notable changes I think has been over the last couple of years is the risk gets distributed from the underwriter to the investor generally much quicker even in the context of deals that have a lag time from the time that they’re committed to where they’re distributed.
So that’s a positive from a risk management perspective.
And then with respect to the hold pieces we continue to be very disciplined with respect to the hold levels that we have on those deals.
And the other thing I’d say is if you just look at mix of business now relative to what you saw 12 months ago a lot more of the leveraged finance business tends to be coming from corporate customers that are either privately held or public and as valuations have gone up less of it tends to come from the private equity firms.
So it’s a business that we think we’re very good at.
Our team has done a very good job of being mindful of the risk that’s associated with it over the last couple of years and it’s a business that we’re optimistic of.
Just to paraphrase what you said you’re very comfortable on the risk management side and you’ve taken market share it sounds like.
But I don’t think you gave an answer in terms of where you think the revenue outlook is for this business over the next couple of years.
The revenue outlook I think in many respects as we look out at the profitability we feel very good about the outlook.
And this is probably the business that most benefits from increased M&amp;A activity particularly on the corporate side.
So to the extent that corporate M&amp;A picks up you would look to see this business continue to have favorable trends.
The word of caution would just be that it is a market dependent business and as you all know periodically there are gaps in time where the new issue market particularly on the high-yield side does slow down sometimes materially.
But on balance we feel very good about the business going forward.
And our final question comes from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Just wanted to go back to the retail branch banking strategy shift and Brian you’ve been clear about this evolution of everyone having a branch in their pocket and so not totally surprised about targeting shrinkage in branch count in ’14 and ’15.
But to frame it out a little bit more does that provide additional expense leverage beyond what you’ve kind of long been talking about on new BAC and LAS? Or is there an investment spend component that we need to be mindful of as well? Obviously you’re getting more and more to the core franchise so the relative amount of movement we can make and remember couple that with we’re investing in people and we’re investing in technology to make it all work.
We’re always going to be working.
That’s our job.
But I’d be careful about assuming beyond the new BAC cost that Bruce talked about that there would be a lot of net after that only because we are investing so heavily in the electronic space which is still building in front of us.
But the theme is right.
It’s really how do you keep driving down the overall operating costs of all the platforms relative to the revenue stream and the deposit base obviously because that drives a lot of the revenue stream of the business.
And so I wouldn’t pull to the bottom line.
But you can assume that we’re going to be diligent in terms of managing that change and transition to help provide more investments frankly if we can.
And where do you think you are in terms of that investment cycle for mobile banking in terms of deliverables? We’ve got a great product and I think sort of a steady state.
We spend just overall about $3 billion in change in annual technology development.
And we expect that number to stay constant over time.
On an annual basis? On an annual basis yes.
Because we’re rebuilding a system.
But that’s all built into the dialog that we had about new BAC.
And then separate but sort of related on expenses with new BAC that’s left to realize in LAS.
How much of that? Should we have kind of a step function down on kind of the absolute level of expenses off kind of the core 4Q run rate of call it 15.5 type levels? Should we see by the end of ’14 heading into ’15 should we take out $1.5 billion or are there other costs related to maybe investment spend elsewhere that we need to be mindful of? I think if you look at the chart we gave you we try to isolate on the costs.
You know the bar chart on page nine.
You can see that the red bars are sort of the core take out the litigation LAS.
So you have to put some back because there will always be some litigation.
You have to put some back for just running the servicing portfolio.
But we’re shooting to drive in the numbers that take those numbers and then you have to grow them and be careful of the FAS 123 type of thing and which quarter you’re looking at.
But our job is to keep driving toward that core expense base.
And then it should grow if we’re growing revenues the economy growth rate 100 basis points above that we’ll grow expenses probably half of that.
And that takes a lot of work to keep that expense down because the people content reaches 50-60% of our expense base and our people do a great job and we’ll pay them.
And I would just add to that.
On the LAS piece we guided to roughly $1.1 billion at the end of the year.
So with respect to the gray bar on page nine that Brian referenced I would think of that 1.8 to 1.1 happening generally pro rata over the course of the year.
And we’ve still got a lot of cleanup there.
If you look at one of our peers who announced yesterday you can see that they’re probably doing their mortgage servicing expenses maybe 30% to 40% of ours.
And that’s just because we’re still getting through the higher [unintelligible] content portfolio.
And it lags a little bit getting this stuff done.
And then Bruce you had said in your prepared remarks that credit quality continues to improve into this year.
Should we read into that that there’s still meaningful credit leverage left to be realized in terms of reserve releases? Or are we closer to the end here in magnitude? I think you’re closer to the end on magnitude from a reserve release perspective.
It’s always a little bit hard to predict obviously because the reserve releases are a function of what’s happening in the underlying credit.
But generally I would say that you would expect to see chargeoffs continue to decline and you’re obviously going to see the reserve releases given the magnitude they’ve been you’re going to see those slow down as well with the one delta just being what’s the overall loan growth that you’re seeing.
And then just lastly just to wrap up some of the Q&amp;A on the CCAR capital deployment just to be clear it seems like one should not use the $10 billion combined preferred and common last year as a base.
It really needs to be a $5 million at the baseline on common that you’ve got to prove for last year and hopefully we’ll make our own assumption but it seems fair to assume you could move upward in terms of deployment this year off that kind of base.
Is that fair? We agree with your characterization of the $10 billion number.
[laughter] That was our last question.
So once again thanks everyone for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s program.
(Operator instructions) It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for joining us on the web as well as the phone this morning.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Brian Moynihan and CFO Bruce Thompson let me just say that we may make some forward-looking statements.
For details on those I will refer you to our Page 24 and 25 in our earnings deck material either the website or our SEC filings.
With that I’ll turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Lee.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review the first quarter results.
As you can see from our numbers we report a loss this quarter.
That loss reflects the cost of resolving more of our legacy mortgage issues as well as adding reserves primarily for previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters.
As disappointed as we are in the bottom-line results; we’re pleased to report that the businesses reported earnings at a level that will allow us to substantially offset these losses.
And also at the same time we were able to sell grow and improve our Basel III standardized regulatory capital ratio during the quarter.
Bruce will take you through the particulars of our results.
But first I want to spend a couple of minutes looking at the progress we continue to make across the customer groups that we serve.
In particular we added some slides to the appendix on pages 17 and 18 which highlight multi-year trends across our customer groups.
Let me just touch on a few of those and connect them to our results.
When you think about broad consumer franchise for mass-market consumers affluent and wealthy consumers as we think about the mass-market group the strategy in our retail segment has been to lower the cost of service so we could improve our customer experience.
We do that by continuing to optimize our delivery networks of all types in response to customer behavior changes.
Banking centers and basic teller transactions continue to decline as customers move their business to mobile and online transactions.
Yet we still have many millions of visits each week to our branches.
But in the aggregate our self-service channels of ATM online and mobile transactions continue to grow.
This quarter more than 10% of all of the deposit transactions that consumers make in our Company are now done through mobile devices as people effectively carry a branch in their pocket.
This coupled with other measures allowed us to reduce our cost in our consumer banking business 4% from last year’s first quarter.
It allows us to continue to invest in other areas to further improve customer satisfaction and grow sales.
On the preferred side of our consumer business where we serve mass-affluent clients we continue investing in this group by adding sales specialists.
We now have more than 6500 sales specialists concentrated in the top banking centers.
We have also increased service associates to drive satisfaction of these clients as well.
The end result when you put all consumer business together is a segment -- is organic deposit growth of $23 billion from last year to a total of $535 billion in deposits.
On investment side of this general consumer client base our Merrill Edge assets grew 21% from last year.
When we put the segment together the earnings in our consumer and business banking business improved 50% year-over-year to nearly $1.7 billion this quarter.
As we move to the wealthy part of our consumer client base in our wealth management business with U.S.
Trust of Merrill Lynch client balances again grew this quarter and now total over $2.4 trillion.
This has driven record asset management fees in the segment and we are seeing growing demand from these customers for other banking products as loans and deposits continue to increase.
This business made over $700 million after tax this quarter and had a pre-tax margin of more than 25% for the fifth consecutive quarter.
We will move to our Company side of our house our commercial and corporate client base.
We continue to retain our leadership position investment banking fees with $1.5 billion in fees received this quarter.
We also saw solid loan and deposit flows this quarter from our commercial customers.
These activities drove a 6% increase in revenue in our global banking business from last year.
In a global markets business which serves investing clients we are at $1.3 billion after tax as our top tier sales and trading platforms generated over $4 billion in revenue this quarter.
So we put it all together we have leadership positions that we continue to work on in each area and continue to see good momentum across the year quarter.
We’re pleased also to be in a position of returning capital to shareholders as we increased dividends in addition to our newly authorized share purchase program.
As usual as we say each quarter we remain focused on executing the strategy to connect the capabilities of this company with its customers and shareholders for your benefit.
With that I want to turn it over to Bruce to cover the earnings results.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I’m going to start on Slide 2 and work through the first quarter results.
We did record a loss of $276 million or $0.05 per diluted share this quarter.
Driving the loss during the quarter was litigation expense of $6 billion which cost us roughly $0.40 a share during the quarter.
We recorded $3.6 billion in litigation expense for the previously announced FHFA settlement and we recorded another $2.4 billion primarily associated with the increase in reserves for previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters.
Revenue during the quarter on an FTE basis was $22.8 billion which was $1.1 billion higher than the fourth quarter of ’13 but below the $23.4 billion we saw in the first quarter of 2013.
On a linked quarter basis our revenues benefitted from improved sales and trading results in asset management fees and were offset by lower net interest income as well as lower mortgage banking revenue.
Compared to the prior year period revenue was down slightly on lower net interest income mortgage revenue in sales and trading but did benefit from higher asset management fees.
Total non-interest expense during the quarter was $22.2 billion but did include $6 billion of litigation expense as well as $1 billion of retirement eligible incentive cost that we recognized during the first quarter of each year.
If we exclude these items from both the first quarter periods for comparability of the underlying trends that we saw within the Company expenses did improve by $1.2 billion or 7% and were driven by lower LAS non-litigation cost as well as some of the new BAC improvements that we saw.
Versus the fourth quarter of ’13 the slight increase in non-interest expense reflects increased revenue related compensation in our markets business and was partially offset by the decline that we saw in our LAS non-litigation expense reductions.
Provision for credit losses was $1 billion during the quarter and increased $673 million versus the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the first quarter of this year we released $379 million from our loan loss reserves and that compares to a release of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Before we move off of this slide let me mention that we had a few other items in the quarter that in the aggregate benefited EPS by above $0.04 a share as higher equity and debt security gains net DVA and the resolution of tax matters were positives and they were offset in part by the cost of retirement eligible incentives as well as the negative market related impacts on our net interest income.
One last point on FBO and DVA.
This quarter and moving forward we report the net impact of these two items as one net DVA valuation number for derivatives and structured liabilities within our global markets business.
On Slide 3 you can see our period end balance sheet increased from the end of 2013 as we grew both cash and securities in light of increasing liquidity requirements in our primary banking subsidiaries.
Ending loans declined $12 billion led by lower residential mortgages principally within our discretionary loan portfolio as well as seasonal declines in credit cards.
Loans were up in our global banking segment which I’ll cover in a bit.
Period end deposits were up $40 billion from the fourth quarter and are up year-over-year by more than $38 billion.
Our tangible common equity ratio declined to 7% due to the increase in liquidity that I mentioned earlier.
Tangible book value did increase slightly during the quarter and we repurchased 87 million shares for $1.4 billion which completed our share repurchase program that we established at this time last year.
In following our CCAR results we announced a new $4 billion share repurchase plan as well as the intention to increase the quarterly common dividend to a nickel a share in the second quarter of 2014.
We move to Slide 4 we look at our capital ratios under Basel III.
Recall this is the first period reporting under Basel III transition which became effective January 1 of this year.
Under the transition rules our common equity Tier I capital was a $151.6 billion well risk weighted assets were $1.28 trillion which resulted in a [audio gap] we move to the advanced method our CET1 ratio was 9.9% and was impacted by the increased level of risk weighted assets related to operational risk which were largely offset by reduction in other risk weighted assets as well as the increase in capital.
We move to supplementary leverage ratios we estimate at the end of the first quarter of ’14 we exceed the recently updated U.S.
rule that apply in 2018.
Once again that would mean our bank holding company is above the 5% minimum and our primary banking subsidiary BANA and FIA are both in excess of their 6% minimums.
I also want to remind you that our tier one capital and supplemental leverage ratios will benefit by approximately $2.9 billion in the second quarter of ’14 if we receive shareholder approval to amend our series T preferred stock.
One last item I want to note regarding capital in the first quarter of ’14 it includes the adjustment the capital allocations across our business line.
We included a slide in the appendix that notes the new allocation.
As you look at that you’ll see that the primary adjustments were allocating more capital to our global banking business given the loan growth we’ve seen in that segment and to a lesser extent increases in both our global market as well as our global wealth management business.
As a result of these changes the amount of unallocated capital that tell that’s held at the parent declined from $16 billion to $5 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2014.
We move to the Slide 5 funding and liquidity.
Our global excess liquidity sources increased more than $50 billion to a record level of $427 billion as a result of seasonally strong deposit flows as well as some of the bank debt issuance that we did earlier in the quarter.
Our total long term debt of $255 billion was $5 billion higher than the fourth quarter of 2013.
These figures do not include the $7.6 billion of debt issuance that settled on April 1st and was executed at more favorable spread than our existing debt footprint.
That issuance has enabled us to maintain our strong excess liquidity position of the parent despite the cash flows required by both scheduled debt maturities as well as recent litigation settlement.
Our time to acquire funding remained very strong at 35 months with parent company liquidity unchanged at $95 billion.
Moving forward and as we consider the FHFA settlement we would expect parent issuance to be below maturity as the focus evolves towards continued yield improvement following the past several years of sizeable balance reductions within our debt footprint.
We move to Slide 6 on net interest income.
Net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.3 billion which was a decline of $700 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
That decline was driven by a swing of roughly $500 million associated with our market related adjustment or FAS 91.
FAS 91 was approximately $300 million negative in the first quarter of ’14 compared to the $200 million benefit that we saw in the fourth quarter of ’13.
The balance of the decline was largely due to two less interest accrual days in the first quarter of ’14 relative to the fourth quarter of ’13.
Our net interest income if we exclude those market related adjustments was $10.6 billion once again down a little over $200 million from the fourth quarter of ’13.
Other drivers in the quarter were lower average consumer balances in yields which were largely offset by a reduction in long term debt cost as well as continued decline in our deposit pricing.
As a result of these net interest income impacts as well as the higher earning assets the net interest yield once again adjusting for FAS 91 declined 3 basis points to 0.36% in the first quarter of ’14.
As it relates to asset sensitivity in the balance sheet we continue to remain poised to benefit from higher rates particularly when the short end of the curve moves up.
As we continue to manage our OCI sensitivity we’re also mindful of both liquidity and leverage roles.
Our first quarter 2014 increase in securities included shorter duration treasury security instead of mortgage backed securities and these treasury securities are much more LCR and OCI friendly but do have lower yields.
Given the continued growth that we’ve seen in our cash balances at central banks as we increase liquidity we have adjusted our net interest yield to reflect the impact of adding these low yielding cash deposits once again at central banks into earning assets.
This had no impact on net interest income but prior period net interest yields have been adjusted to reflect the change.
Given the added liquidity during the quarter coupled with the average balance impact of seasonally lower consumer balances we expect net interest income in the second quarter of ’14 may be slightly lower compared to this quarter’s $10.6 billion level excluding market related adjustments before moving up modestly throughout the second half of 2014.
We move to our expense highlights on Slide 7.
Non-interest expense was $22.2 billion in the first quarter of ‘14 and once again included $6 billion charge for litigation expense and $1 billion cost for retirement eligible incentives.
As previously mentioned $6 billion litigation expense did include the cost of the FHFA settlement as well as $2.4 billion in increased reserves associated with our previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters.
If we exclude the litigation in retirement eligible incentive cost our total expenses were $15.2 billion and declined $1.2 billion from the first quarter of ‘13 driven by lower LAS cost but were up roughly 200 million from the fourth quarter of ‘13 on incentives related to improved sales and trading revenue.
Legacy assets and servicing cost ex-litigation of $1.6 billion declined more than $250 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
As you look at that $1.6 billion number the savings we generated during the quarter were 40% of our targeted quarterly reductions that we’ve communicated to you previously.
We continue to make progress on cost savings and as a result our expense program targets for New BAC as well as LAS remain unchanged.
Turning to Slide 8; you can see our credit quality continue to improve again.
Net charge offs declined $194 million to $1.4 billion or a 62 basis point net loss ratio.
Delinquencies a leading indicator of charge offs showed improvement again as well.
In our first quarter of ’14 provision expense was $1.0 billion and we released approximately $400 million of reserves during the quarter.
Looking forward we would expect provision expense for the balance of the year to reflect both modest reductions in net charge-offs as well as reserve releases.
Let’s move to Slide 9 and go through the different business segments starting with consumer and business banking.
Net income of nearly $1.7 billion in the first quarter of ‘14 was up 15% from the first quarter of 2013.
Lower expenses higher service charges a portfolio divestiture gain in lower credit costs all drove that improvement in the first quarter of ‘13.
Return on allocated capital within the segment remains very strong at 23% this quarter.
As we reflect on customer activity during the quarter mobile banking customers grew 19% from the first quarter of 2013 to 15 million customers and customer deposit transactions using these devices now represent 10% of all transactions.
Average deposits of $535 billion are up organically $23 billion or 5% compared to the first quarter of ‘13 and our rates paid were reduced nearly in half to 7 basis points.
Our brokerage assets surpassed the $100 billion in the quarter and are up 21% year-over-year with the growth split fairly evenly between both increases in flows as well as valuations within the market.
Our card issuance remains strong at a million new accounts in the first quarter of 2014 but our ended period balances are down seasonally from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Importantly our risk adjusted margin remained above 9%.
Overall our credit quality within this segment remained strong as our net charge offs declined versus both the linked quarter period as well as the year ago period.
Provision expense was $812 million during the quarter.
Net charge offs improved $360 million from the year ago quarter and we released $69 million in reserves this quarter which is $220 million less than the first quarter of last year and down $426 million from the fourth quarter of ‘13.
One litigation item to note before we move off the consumer results is the resolution we reached last week with the CFPB and the OCC on issues related to the marketing sale and billing of credit cards debt cancellation ID theft protection products.
This settlement included cash payments to both regulators and provides for redress the customers and was covered by reserves that had been established in prior periods.
We move to Slide 10; consumer real estate services.
The higher loss in the quarter was driven by $5.8 billion of litigation within the segment.
Let’s first focus on the reported sub-segment of home loans where we recorded the origination of consumer real estate.
Our first mortgage retail originations of $8.9 billion were down 24% from the fourth quarter of ’13 in-line with overall market demand and drove a 32% reduction in core production revenue as margins held relatively steady compared to the fourth quarter of ’13.
We continue to reduce production staffing levels in the quarter consistent with the volumes that we’re seeing but those expenses will flow through the P&amp;L immediately.
Home equity originations of $2 billion were up from the fourth quarter of ‘13 level.
We moved the legacy assets in servicing sub-segment.
Once again the driver here is the previously mentioned litigation cost.
On litigation cost you saw the press release on March 26th regarding our settlement with FHFA which identified the $6.3 billion payment and led to the $3.6 million litigation charge this quarter.
We’re obviously pleased to have this matter put behind us.
Within our earnings release we also included information regarding a settlement with FGIC and related parties on involved securitization trust which resolves all outstanding litigation in rep and warrant claims on second lean loans for approximately $900 million to $950 million depending on the final outcome of two of the remaining trust two of the nine remaining trusts excuse me.
This settlement was covered by reserves that we had established in previous periods.
The primary revenue component within the LAS sub-segment servicing revenue declined $205 million versus the fourth quarter as the size of our servicing portfolio continues to decline as it aligns with our market share of production and we also have less favorable MSR net hedge performance during the quarter.
Also impacting revenue during the quarter was rep and warrant expense of $178 million which increased by roughly $100 million from the fourth quarter of ’13 given the settlement during the quarter with FHFA.
From a cost of servicing perspective our 60 plus day delinquent loans will reduce by 15% 277 000 units at the end of the first quarter of 2014 and once again our LAS expense ex-litigation declined $262 million to $1.6 billion.
We move to Slide 11 global wealth and investment management.
During the quarter we achieved record revenue of $4.5 billion which was up 3% from the first quarter of ‘13 and 2% from the fourth quarter of ‘13.
The improvement was driven by record asset management fees during the quarter.
Net income of $729 million was slightly higher than the first quarter of ‘13 but was down modestly from the fourth quarter of ‘13 as expense was 3% higher than both periods.
Expense increase compared to both periods and higher revenue related incentives increased volume related cost as well as certain investments in technology.
Notwithstanding those increases our pretax margin remains strong north of 25% for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Our return on allocated capital was 25% but declined from prior period as the relative earnings stability was coupled with the increased capital allocations that I mentioned previously.
Client engagement remains strong in the markets providing additional tailwind as our client balances increased $30 billion from the year-end 2013 to $2.4 trillion.
Long-term AUM flows of $17.4 billion for the quarter were the second highest in our Company’s history.
Ending client loan balances of $120 billion reached record levels and are up 9% year-over-year.
One other highlight I’d like to mention is the coordinated referral efforts that we’re seeing across wealth management and the banking groups as we funded more than 300 institutional retirement plans worth more than 2.4 billion in client assets during the quarter.
On Slide 12 global banking earnings during the quarter were $1.24 billion.
Earnings compared to the first quarter of ‘13 show a 6% improvement in revenue that were offset by higher expense.
Investment banking fees for the quarter were $1.54 billion consistent with what we saw during the first quarter of ‘13 but 11% lower than the record level that we saw during the fourth quarter of ’13.
We do believe for the second consecutive quarter this would rank us as a global leader in investment banking fees.
The remaining revenue drivers in this business treasury services and business lending show very positive trends year-over-year across both our commercial as well as our corporate client base.
You can see some of these metrics on Page 26 of the supplemental information that we provide to you.
Provision was up $160 million from the first quarter of ’13 driven by additions to our loan loss reserves.
The first quarter of ’14 included a build of $282 million versus the build of $81 million in the first quarter of ’13 and $434 million in the fourth quarter of ’13.
The expense increase in the quarter of $186 million on a year-over-year basis relates to investments in technology for our global treasury services and lending platforms additional client basing personnel and to a lesser degree some litigation that we saw during the quarter within this segment.
When you look at the balance sheet average loans are up $27.4 billion or 11% compared to the first quarter of ’13 and are up $2.6 billion compared to the fourth quarter of ’13.
The overall pace of growth that we’re seeing has slowed from the past few quarters as pricing for loans is quite competitive and we’ve chosen returns over growth in certain cases.
Return on allocated capital was 16% and is down from prior periods reflecting stable earnings that were more than offset by a 35% increase in allocated capital.
We switch to global markets on Slide 13.
Excluding net DBA we earned $1.24 billion in the first quarter which is in line with the first quarter of ’13 and up $893 million from the fourth quarter of ’13.
Ex-DBA sales and trading revenue was $4.1 billion Our rates and currencies experienced declines from market volumes and lower volatility during the quarter.
I would note that our fixed business did increase 42% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Equity sales and trading flat with the first quarter of 2013 and up 28% from the fourth quarter of ’13.
Expenses were stable compared to the first quarter of ’13 and when we compare expenses to the fourth quarter of ’13 they increased $453 million on higher revenue related expenses after excluding litigation of $655 million that we recorded in the fourth quarter of ’13 within this segment.
Our trading related assets on average remain flat at $440 billion on a linked quarter basis.
Our return on allocated capital during the quarter was 16% even after we consider a 13% increase in allocated capital.
On Slide 14 we show all other.
Revenue was down $193 million in the fourth quarter of ’13 on lower net interest income which was driven by the swing in market related adjustments that I discussed earlier and was partially offset by higher equity investment gains which were driven by the final monetization of an investment.
First quarter ’14 expense includes the retirement eligible incentive cost which are in line with last year but still drive the expense variance compared to the fourth quarter of ’13 and was partially offset by lower litigation cost.
Provision benefit in the quarter was relatively flat to the fourth quarter of ’13 but did improve $385 million from the first quarter of ’13.
Net charge-offs of $206 million improved $88 million from the fourth quarter of ’13 and $279 million in the first quarter of ’13.
Our first quarter of ’14 results in this segment included $341 million reserve release compared to a release of $482 million in the fourth quarter and $235 million in the first quarter of ’13.
During the quarter our effective tax rate was impacted by our loss position.
For the rest of 2014 we would expect an effective tax rate of approximately 31% absent any unusual items.
We’ll make a few comments before we open it up for questions.
We obviously don’t like to report a loss to shareholders but this quarter we achieved resolution of rulings around significant legacy matters.
FHFA FGIC CFPB and OCC as well as the positive court ruling on Bank of New York Mellon private label securities matters which is under appeal just to name a few.
We established additional reserves to help address previously disclosed mortgage related issues and we did that and still built our already strong Basel III standardized capital ratio.
Our supplemental leverage ratios at both parent and banks are compliant well and advanced of the 2018 implementation date under the more stringent new rule.
Our liquidity is at record levels and we’re well positioned to meet the new LTR requirements.
Asset quality is strong in improving.
Our expense program show good progress and most importantly four of our five operating segments reported revenue and earnings that were essentially flat or higher than the prior year.
In our fifth segment legacy assets and servicing we made progress on legacy issues we drove down 60 days plus delinquent loan and our cost excluding litigation declined $1 billion from last year’s first quarter.
So as we move into the second quarter of this year we feel that we’re better positioned than we were coming into 2014.
And with that we will go ahead and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go first to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Couple of questions.
One on the litigation reserve bill that you did in the quarter.
You mentioned that FGIC and the trust settlement were fully reserved for.
So that means that none of the 2.4 billion increase reserves in 1Q that you called out was for that settlement? That’s correct.
As we said substantially all of the $2.4 billion related to a bill in our litigation reserves for matters that we’ve disclosed previously.
And I guess I’m just wondering if you could give us a sense or color as to what you’re referring to there.
It doesn’t look like it went to the monolines or the PLS.
So it is something that’s broadly mortgage related or is it something else? And given that it’s such a large reserve bill does it suggest that there’s another settlement in the near term? You bring up a good point.
It does not relate to the previously announced Article 77.
It is not relate to the remaining monoline exposure given that we settled the FGIC exposure within the context of our reserve level.
So it relates to other mortgage related matters outside of those that we have disclosed previously.
Okay.
And I wouldn’t interpret or not fairly assume that the bills and reserve suggest that the settlement is limited.
Okay.
Just moving to capital on Basel III you give us some great information on transitional to the fully phased in walk there and the appendix.
I guess I’m just wondering you did narrow the gap between the standardized and advanced by 30 bps.
Could you run through how you did that in the quarter? Sure.
I think if you -- obviously the numerator in both is the same and we saw -- during the quarter we saw improvement in OCI as a numerator and we saw some significant improvement in our threshold deductions.
That numerator applies to both standardized as well as the advance approaches.
If you look at the standardized risk weighted asset the big driver down there related to the reduction in our consumer real-estate both first mortgage as well as home equity and those portfolios reduced from longer dated assets.
In addition you had the seasonal decline within the card portfolio that helped and that was moderated a little bit by the growth that we saw in commercial loan.
So I think as you look at that Basel III standardized ratio what was driving risk weighted assets were actual reduction in exposure.
There wasn’t anything related to models or assumptions that factored into that.
If you move over to the advanced approach where we reported at 9.9% which was down a touch the biggest change and we continue to work with and look to refine and take guidance that we’re getting with respect to operational risk the operational risk -- the operational risk weighted assets during the quarter as we continue to refine that we’re up about $50 billion and now represent almost 25% of our overall Basel III advanced risk weighted assets.
And I think as you look at relative to our peers it brings us and puts us in line with where our peers are with that and we’ll continue to refine it and work through that in the future.
Okay.
Just lastly on expenses you did show a nice reduction in core expenses.
Could speak to some of the things that have been hitting the headlines recently cuts in global markets 5%.
Is this accurate? Is it part of new BAC or is it more normal course expense management and then the branches are down 10% over the last two years.
How much more optimization is there? I am sorry Betsy; I missed the first part of your question.
On the global market the trimming that we did it was announced as sort of annual term that goes on.
Remember we’re -- always we’re adding and we had frankly record hiring from schools this year coming.
So we always are sort of adjusting the headcount keep the expenses in mind based on -- we have a lot new people join us here as we go into the summer that we’ve already made offers to and it’s kind of a general betting.
So I wouldn’t put that as anything other than just sort of day-to-day expense management and also just a natural turn up in the business.
The second part Bruce? Yes on branch optimization as we look at that and I think you really get a sense for the progress within branch optimization when you flip through the consumer and business banking segment.
A chunk of that relates to new BAC and you can see over the course of 12 months as we’ve taken the branches down by about 300 units that’s contributed to on a year-over-year basis a $180 million of expenses that we saw during the quarter.
Betsy so this is a long term strategy.
So whether it’s in the BAC or not we’ll continue to optimize the platform and what we show you back in the appendix slide is the mobile banking growth is pretty strong.
So at the end of day if you look at it across the last five or six years we have more customers a lot more deposits and a lot less cost structure as we reposition to meet the customers’ changing issues of first computers then phones and the enhanced effectiveness of the ATM.
So you should expect that -- those techniques to continue but be that as it may we also had -- still have 7 million 7.5 million people coming in our branches every week that are great opportunities to engage with customers that we also continue to see strong foot traffic.
So we are managing this to meet those needs from both the people coming to the branch and the people who use the automated techniques and that is the challenge as we go forward.
I think we’ve done a pretty good job of bringing them down and keeping the expenses kind of moving with the customer flow.
Great but from here this branch level you think holds or you still have more work to do on pulling it down? We will adjust it every month and keep looking at it and making adjustments as they look over multiple years in the future.
But if you remember originally we said we get around 5 000 out of new BAC.
That was kind of the number we gave you and move there.
But also remember that what you define as a branch will change.
We have these express branch formats where there is sales people plus what we call ATAs which are ATM machines that you could actually call up -- work with tellers directly.
It allows you to cash checks to penny authenticate without your -- your card is stuck in the machine with anything to do with a regular teller.
And so it’s all important to us.
So I think focusing on the numbers of course the overall cost of this structure -- all the parts is -- and that’s what I focus on.
If you look at that we continue to drive that down taking all the cost of the whole infrastructure relative to the deposit base that’s down from down there 200 basis points.
And we’ll go next to Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Looking for a quick comment on the overall loan picture.
There is always a lot of puts and takes.
So the commercial side grew by 8% year over year.
The consumer shrunk by 0.7%.
A lot of that’s run off.
So can you just give a general comment on how you’re feeling about loan growth and then we’ve been there -- your commentary on the mortgage originations pipeline being up 23% in the first quarter.
Thank you.
Sure.
The first is why don’t we start -- if you start with the within the global banking segment we saw loans relative to year end up about $2.5 billion and up more significantly on a year-over-year basis and say that we continue to see good loan demand within the commercial space.
It’s across both BNI as well as real estate.
So we feel good about that.
But as I did note that during the quarter there were certain opportunities and things that we looked at that we did not do in that we very much have a focus not just on growing the loans but the return that’s generated from those loans.
And I think going forward you should expect to see us grow loans but we’re going to be prudent and it needs to be at returns that make sense and for those customers that we have good relationships with.
If you move to the consumer side as I did note and you can see it when you look within the CSBB segment that the majority of the loan reduction we saw in consumer was really three things.
It was the pay-off of first mortgage loans that were held for investment purpose within the investment portfolio.
It was the continued reduction within the home equity business where we have about $3.5 billion of home equity loans that repay each quarter but those tend to be older vintages and get back to the home equities we’re doing when it finish and then the third was the overall card balances were down about $4 billion which on a seasonal basis is what we would expect and we would look to see those card balances stabilize as we go throughout 2014.
As it relates to new activity we did note that the pipeline is up about 23%.
What we saw was not materially different than others in that the first month two months of the quarter applications and volume were down with some of the weather but we did see a pickup in that activity which led to -- obviously off of a low base a 23% increase in the pipeline as we go into the second quarter.
The other thing I would reference is if you look back you can see that we have been able to increase and move up what we were doing on the home equity front where we had $2 billion of originations during the quarter.
And I would just note from a credit quality perspective and what we’re seeing there those loan-to-values tend to be in the 60s with FICO scores deep into the 700.
So that area is providing an opportunity for us as well.
In some -- I think I just - I don’t want to put words in your mouth but if you look at the net of just 50 basis points for total loans year-on-year it sounds like it’s better than that just because of the run-off I just want to make sure that I get that specifics comment.
Yes especially in the consumer business the runoff affects the overall numbers.
Because remember we still got the portfolios that we inherited from acquisitions.
They are still running through it.
Follow up on the legal -- you mentioned the first two were fully reserved for.
The 2.4 adds to the reserve.
Where are we now in terms of the estimated losses above and beyond what you reserved for? In other words I would think it could go down as you continue to add further reserve? Are you referring to the range of possible losses that we disclosed when we put the Q out? Correct.
Yes I think -- we're working through in refining that.
We don’t put that out with earnings.
We put it out when we file the 10-Q.
But to your point I don’t think there’s - we obviously made progress with getting FHFA put behind us as well as FGIC and some other related matters and we’re working through where exactly that range of possible loss comes out but hear your point.
Okay I appreciate it.
And then last one on slide I think it’s 14.
Just curious the equity investment income what’s driving that? It seems to have a nice steady and upward trending slope.
Yes.
As we noted in the script that we did complete the final monetization of an investment that was a decent chunk of that.
So I would not expect to see those revenues at those levels going forward.
And we’ll go next to Jonathan McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Bruce I was wondering if -- just want to understand the dynamic of the net interest income outlook.
I guess in the second quarter it’s the increase in lower yielding liquidity on an average basis and that’s going to push the NRI down a little bit.
That overwhelms the day count.
Is that what’s happening in the second quarter?   Yes.
Keep in mind you only pick up one day Q1 to Q2.
I think you have a couple of things as I mentioned.
You’ve got -- relative to first quarter you do have more card balances given the seasonal bump that you see at year-end that you carry; a fair bit of during the first quarter.
We did build up throughout the first quarter a significant amount of liquidity in anticipation of those rules.
That will contribute a little bit to the decline in the second quarter and then as we saw for that you’d expect to see that move up.
Nothing structural.
We do have some seasonal stuff in the markets business that we do that depresses things and touch in the second quarter.
So as we said it’s obviously early in the quarter but we’re expecting a slight decline but then we’d expect the trajectory to get back to the levels that we’ve previously talked about.
Okay and what’s helping it grind higher beyond the second quarter Bruce just as a reminder? What helps it grow in the third and fourth quarter and beyond? Sure.
I think as you would look at it one of the things that we continue to work through is that the debt footprint will come down although more modestly but what we are seeing is as we look at the levels at which we raise debt going forward the cost of that has come down significantly.
So you have some pickup there.
You obviously have some pickup with some of the loan growth that we’re seeing within the commercial space and we continue to take deposit pricing down as well although we’re down to levels that are harder to get much lower.
And I do just want to remind you Jon and I know you know this that as we give this guidance it’s backed up and it excludes market related impacts that come out of FAS 91.
Okay and then on litigation expense Bruce with the big reserve build and the settlements this quarter what’s the outlook there? I know it’s tough to forecast.
But should we assume that a few hundred million of litigation expense will process through the next several quarters? I think you have to look between -- we've continued and I just reminded -- as you look at the litigation pipeline and you look at where we are; we’ve obviously gotten through the base rep and warrant with respect to the GSEs.
We were able to get through and reach an agreement with FGIC which is the fourth monoline settlement that we have.
And then we are working through in the Article 77 case that is going through the judicial process.
So as we continue to reduce the number of outstanding litigation items that we have that should obviously bode well for what I would characterize as the kind of base litigation expense.
That being said I think we need to be realistic and you saw it this quarter that as it relates to the remaining couple of matters that we disclosed it can be lumpy in that it’s just very hard to predict.
But as we talked about it in the presentation during the quarter we did have a pretty significant build as we continue to evaluate those positions as well as the discussions that we have that our parties do the litigation.
Jon I think the simple way.
If you think about things that -- litigation matters that sort of arise after ‘08 ’09 the cost of those are very modest anything new exist.
These all cost really relates to the stuff before the price [indiscernible] cleanup.
So your point about what would be ongoing litigation trust me much much lower but the question is the lumpiness refers to the transition we got left on a few of these matters.
Okay and then Bruce just to clarify the provision commentary that you made.
Your outlook is for net charge offs to kind of grind lower modestly but -- and reserve release to continue but probably at a smaller level than the 380 we saw this quarter?  Yes I think that’s fair Jon.
It can bounce around in any one quarter but the provision number broadly speaking is in line with what we’d expect over the next couple of quarters.
So Jon another way is if you look at the supplemental material and the pages on the charge offs by product.
You got to remember that there is - if you look at the credit card charge offs in U.S.
and domestic they’re down.
This quarter was 700 million and 3.25% charge off rate.
You are kind of hitting a place where the business is geared to have some amount of charge offs and it’s the way the business works part of the cost of doing business as a credit cost.
If you look outside that number that is -- card charge offs are like 80% of the charge offs 60% 70% of charge offs and they are going to be hard to get down a lot more.
So there is work to do on mortgage charge offs home equity charge offs.
If you look across the rest of the board they’re in pretty good shape.
And last thing from me; just wondering if trading and fixed income in particular do they have any notable sequential trends in the quarter? Did trading get better in March and early April as rate volatility started to pick up a little bit or anything like that? I wouldn’t highlight any real seasonality of note as it relates to drastic ups or downs throughout the quarter.
The one piece that I would say that I think generally rates in foreign exchange given where the market was in the back that there was not a lot of volatility in the quarter was clearly negatively affected.
And on the positive side I would say that the overall credit trading businesses whether it be loans high grade bond trading or high yield bond trading given market activity levels as well as our position from an underwriting perspective were very strong during the quarter.
And we’ll go next to Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
This is Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
Another sort of expense theme question; there has obviously been an increased amount of regulatory scrutiny on MSR transfers.
Can you touch for me a little bit whether if those transactions got delayed or pushed out if it would impact your ability to meet expense targets or just a little color there? A very good question.
What I would point out is and if you go back to the fourth quarter of 2012 that was when we announced our significant MSR transfers.
And so if you look at where we are as it relates to just pure MSR transfers or through the significant majority of what we would expect we’ve got some clean up and far smaller ones during the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarters.
We don’t have any reason to believe given they’re small and who they’re going to that there’ll be a problem with the transfer.
So we feel and as it relates to getting to the expense targets with what’s left to go that will not be an issue for us.
We’ll go next to Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask you about just operating leverage and again expense progress.
So year-over-year revenues plus or minus were down $1 billion and if I’m looking at Slide 7 I’m looking at -- the core expenses were down a few hundred million and that’s net of all the New BAC benefits.
So can you talk to us about just the push and pull between the net BFA -- the New BFA New BAC reductions and then what cost inflation you’re seeing any underneath the core.
And then as you look forward just how we should expect that core line to traject the ‘13 excluding the retirement eligible? Sure let me answer the last of your question first which is we would expect the core trajectory to trend down as we go throughout 2014.
When you look at the and if you’re looking on Slide 7 and we compare the $13.8 billion to the $13.6 billion let me just consider and give you a couple of numbers that affected that core.
During the first quarter of ’14 as we continue to reduce headcount we incurred over a $100 million of severance expense on both an absolute basis as well as a year-over-year basis within those numbers.
So you had a $100 million to the negative there.
The second thing is and as we disclosed we have been investing within corporate banking cash management sales people to a lesser extent capital markets people and some of the technology that goes along with that and we think as we look going forward we’re through a lot of that investment but as I referenced in my comments I would ask you to flip back up to page 26 because we are seeing the benefit from revenue growth from those investments and we’d obviously expect those to moderate going forward.
The other couple of things that I would note there is if you look at within the wealth management business you need to consider within that area that we did have $200 million plus increase in revenue from asset management fees.
So there’s obviously compensation that goes out with that as well as some of the technology dollars that were spent for our Merrill 1 project that we rolled out within the wealth management area.
So I would just say as you look at that 200 the benefit from New BAC was clearly on a year-over-year much more significant from that.
But we are investing in the areas where we think and where we’re seeing revenue growth and we would obviously expect those investments given that they’ve been made and are generating the revenues that you’d expect those to moderate going forward.
And just a follow-up to that then we are going to continue to see improvements to get to that 2 billion New BAC level by mid-next year.
But given what you anticipate on the revenue side do you feel that that’s enough to get you where you want to go in terms of profitability improvement or is there anything you can contemplate or need to contemplate as far as finding other incremental ways to fund those investments or drive more to the bottom line?  Obviously we continue to look at that and we continue we started after this as you know in ‘11 and so if you go back I think we had $80 odd billion expenses when we started this thing and so we’ve been driving it down year after year after year.
But that doesn’t mean it stops at New BAC.
It’s just the challenge inherent in the slow growth environment is how to manage the relative investment rate expense growth rate versus revenue growth rate.
And so that’s something we as management continue to focus on.
But if you think about the $13.6 billion and think about continue make some improvement against it sort of annualize that add back whatever $1 billion to the one time retirement cost and then some litigation you start to get into levels that we think are consistent with the earnings sort of restoring the normalized earnings pool.
The question is and you are right is that we got to make sure that the investments we make are yielding the revenue benefits and we got to keep the total expenses overall and that’s we are up to.
And I think the way to think about that is look at 3 500 more employees’ headcount reduction this quarter and you’ll continue to see that work its way down.
That is a leading indicator of what’s going to happen next quarter because those employees that the spot-to-spot number went out during the quarter but they’re still on the payroll for the quarter.
Got it.
And one last one just card income and service charges -- a lot of other banks have been seeing weakness there partially weather partially regulatory partial pricing changes.
Anything that you guys are seeing or anticipate seeing on any of those fronts looking ahead?  If you think about the longer term trend there we had a big change in terms of fee structures in the consumer business broadly going back a few years ago and you kind of came through all that and that affected.
What’s happened now as if you just look at our card activity our purchases on our cards are up by 5% or so quarter to last year this quarter -- first quarter last year to first quarter this year.
So we continue to see better than market growth in the activity levels -- general spending levels and things like that -- which helps them interchange that once we got off sort of the reduction that were due to the change in interchange rules and so I think they’ll keep driving forward based on just general activity but most of the real down draft came out in ‘11 ‘12 early ‘13 timeframe.
Yes I think the other point is if you look at within the consumer business we actually saw the service charges during the quarter were up about 3% on a year-over-year basis.
So some of the card income tends to be seasonally higher in the fourth quarter.
It dropped in the first quarter then builds back up but within the consumer space we were pleased with what we saw on the service charge line during the quarter.
So if you go back and look at 17 we got we have been producing from a sort of 700 000 to 800 000 run rate new cards to a 1 million plus and those cards are being used as a core card by the customers in such driving up -- the pay rate is still high.
So the balances aren’t moving much but the activity underneath is moving and we’re still replacing some affinity portfolios that we sold and things like that.
So our view is that the transactional behavior of our customers continues to grow and will benefit some of the fee lines too.
We’ll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
First just a couple of follow ups.
So how much of the new BAC savings were achieved by the end of the quarter? You should look at relative to the $2 billion a quarter.
We’re in the $1.7 billion area.
All right so you have $300 million left per quarter to be achieved by mid-2015? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then the LAS savings you have another $500 million a quarter to be achieved by the end of the year? That’s correct.
All right.
So $800 million total quarterly expense savings we should expect over the next year or so.
So should we expect all that to hit the bottom line? You should expect it to hit the bottom line with just the one caveat that to the extent that there are revenue related things that have cost attached to them that could moderate that reduction but ultimately that would be a positive to the pre-tax income line.
Okay.
And do you have an efficiency target for the firm? Because I’m just looking at Page 3 of the supplement and the efficiency ratio is kind of thrown off by the charges and it’s been in the 70s the last few quarters and 97.68% I don’t think you consider that your core efficiency ratio.
So what do you consider your core efficiency ratio and where should it be and where you hope to get -- when do you hope to get there? I think if you go back and look at what we talked about in the fourth quarter where we talked about where we’d like to get to from an ROA return on tangible common equity and we talked about once rate started to move up that and as we looked out we look out in a couple of years that efficiency ratio should be in the high 50s.
Okay.
So do you have a specific time frame for that or just when rates go up? I think as we look at it it’s just at a point in time that rates are up roughly 100 basis points across the curve and obviously to the extent that we don’t see rates move up we’re going to need to run harder on expenses to try to get it to the extent that the rate environment doesn’t move up.
Shifting gears the tax rate excluding the mortgage charge to the first quarter was what? I believe it was roughly I guess about 50% -- somewhere between 58% and 60%.
I’m sorry the tax rate? You said the tax rate going ahead will be 31%.
Right.
I’m just trying to figure out what was the core tax rate for this quarter excluding the charge? It would be -- I mean the core tax rate we project out and look out over the years.
Still the core would have been 31 but you always have a little bit of noise when you -- and obviously it was a pretax loss but the discrete item always kind of overwhelms things a low period.
But the base rate from which you’re starting from is 31% and it was just a little bit skewed given what we saw from a pretax loss perspective.
Okay.
You had record wealth management for the quarter and one of the online brokers recently said that the big brokerage firms are doing better.
How much do you attribute the record wealth management to the environment versus what you’re doing versus it’s better to be a big broker? I’m not sure what the context is Mike but the net flows in the wealth management business were around $11 billion -- $12 billion this quarter which was nearly 17 to 18 due to long term flows and $6 billion of short term liquidity flows out for net of around $12 billion.
If you look in the Merrill Edge platform which is more akin to the sort of the online type of thing I think we had 80 000 plus to account this quarter.
We asked continue to grow and top to 100 billion daily average trades are up I think 25% to 30% year-over-year.
And so it continues to progress and we continue to see good asset flows there too.
So big small large traditional all that sort of blended together we operate as a core consolidated franchise you’re seeing good momentum in both.
You’re allocating more capital at GWIM as well as global banking and global markets.
Is that increased capital allocation due to regulatory capital changes or a deliberate move by you guys to invest more for growth in those segments? Well let me just start -- the allocation of capital is how we think the capital that we have the Company and push it out to the businesses - I think you need to go segment by segment within that Mike.
I think the first is that as you look at the global banking segment and look at the allocation and what we’ve done the first is on a year-over-year basis you had average loans up about $30 billion.
So there were more loan balances against which you need to allocate capital.
The second thing that I would say is as you look at that segment and you consider Basel III standardized ratios they tend to risk weight almost all commercial loans at 100% regardless of what the models would suggest they should be risk weighted at.
So I think the combination of the loan growth along with some of the impacts from regulatory capital led us to increase what we did with respect to global banking.
Within global wealth management as you go back and refine operational loss models and assign operational risk capital that was topped up as well as reflecting the fact within wealth management business that we’ve seen loan growth within that segment.
So there was additional money allocated there and then as we look at and just continue to refine and look at both comparables as well as asset mix we thought it was prudent to increase modestly what we saw with a global market and as I said in my comments when you consider the aggregate and we look at where we are relative to peers we’ve got virtually all of our capital at this point pushed out to the different businesses which is the way it should be.
I agree.
So it sounds like it’s partly business growth and partly regulatory related and partly a desire simply to have less unallocated capital.
I think the last one is what you got to keep up.
Okay and then lastly the Bank of New York ruling was good.
I did not expect that but you still had a $6 billion charge this quarter and another $2.4 billion extra charge in the last 15 workdays since the FHFA amount was announced and I know you’ve had several questions in the call but what’s left as far as potential legal charges because the teams are so lumpy and if in just a few weeks you can have another $2.4 billion charge seemingly out of the blue for some of us what’s left?   I think when you look at it as I commented that I think we give fairly wholesome disclosure in the 10-K as it relates to the matters that are out there and when you look at the matters and compare where we are now to what’s out there that obviously from the case that FHFA was resolved and that was the $3.6 billion number we mentioned.
You’ve seen resolutions during the quarter from an Allstate RMBS perspective.
You saw a resolution of force-placed lace insurance.
You saw CFPB/OCC and you saw the deal that we completed and announced with FGIC today.
So as you work through and look at those matters it’s largely with what’s disclosed leaves you with respect to one monoline and then in addition to the monoline the other remaining legacy mortgage related matters that we put out in our disclosure.
We’ll go next to Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Let me just start out by saying on the litigation front I actually thought it was very good that you’ve provided now for a bunch of the issues that are actually still pretty visible out there.
So let’s just a thank you for having done that.
I have a question for you on the control environment cost.
Some of your competitors JPMorgan and Citi have spoken to you know billion dollar type numbers for increased control environment cost in the wake of CCAR issues over the last few years and obviously all of the -- the heightened scrutiny and I was wondering if you could give us a sense for what your control cost increase has been over the last year or two.
I’ll give you a number let me give you a way to think about it.
In our environment coming out of the same issues in ’08 and ’09 we built a lot of personnel and headcount to get after the stuff and we’re still finishing up to clean up and so if you look in the expense base a lot of that’s been in the expense base for a couple of years and then and so if you think about something like our audit team we doubled the size of our audit team probably in 2010 and it’s been held fairly constant against that.
Against the back drop we probably divested tons of businesses and the rest of the headcount the Company has come down you know fairly dramatically from a high of 305 000 I think.
So the amount of control environment relative to the total cost structure has gone up but the raw numbers haven’t gone up as dramatically because frankly we put a lot of men in ’10 - ‘11 timeframe.
So it is our duty to get it right.
It’s our duty to keep working on it and make sure that we get these things right to the ground but one of the key ways that we’re doing this is by focusing the scope of the Company.
So the fourth place excuse me the add on products build up this quarter we quit offering those products a while ago.
It just took a while with the OCC and the consumer bureau to finish up the negotiations and finish up the rebate.
We’ve been sending money back to customers but we quit offering the products as an example and so the idea of narrowing the products that’s narrowing the geographic scope of the Company making the Company a lot less complex.
We’ll always be big but we make ourselves less complex but against that a growing -- a strong growth in the control cost in the ‘9-‘10-‘11 timeframe and in the flattening of that but relative to smaller companies is actually an increase.
Thanks.
That’s helpful color certainly in terms of thinking about the timing.
You did allude to some increase in technology investment in GWIM and obviously the margin there contracted a little bit.
Maybe you can give us a little bit of a sense for what this - I think you alluded to Merrill One?   Well Merrill One is a new product they brought out that’s been successful and like anything else you put the product after you’ve spent all the money to put the product together and the assets come on it.
And so we are feeling good about that tens of billions of dollars of that’s been moved to the platform.
It is a good platform for customers and for the advisors.
I think more broadly I talked about technology.
If you looked at the expenses we had going back sort of at the prices we saw the Merrill transition expenses and all in we’re spending around $3 billion in technology development a year.
We now spend about 3.5 billion.
And then obviously the transition expenses are out there.
So everything we’re spending is to better the platform better the business invest in the growth.
And again some of your questions about cost that number I don’t expect to change going forward because it takes that kind of technology investment to drive the product capabilities of our company; Merrill One being one product this quarter along with a new card system a new trading platform.
Tom and his team are in the middle of putting in a new backbone for the Company in terms of our general accounting systems which has been the tailwind going in and across the board.
So across a four five year format the timeframe will replace almost every system in the Company but we would expect that to continue.
So the GWIN we swung around last we did more in other businesses cash management we started building -- rebuilt the front end mortgage process and a lot of other things.
This year we swung the GWIN and it’s really a decision of which business we invest in at which time and they ask more investment this year.
And then final one for me.
You gave the leverage ratios being above the 5% and the 6% requirements based on the most recent NPR.
Subsequent to that -- I guess Basel came out in March with some suggested changes to the netting on a standardized basis for counter party credit and I was wondering if you have any sense at this point what the impact on the leverage ratio would be of those changes if implemented.
I think the final supplementary leverage ratio rules that reflected that came out in April and so the numbers that we’ve given you where we’re above the 5% were 6% at the bank reflects the impact of those rules with respect to netting and the other changes.
The numbers we have given you reflect that April release.
That’s from the Fed right the April release from the Fed? That’s correct.
No.
What I was referring to is that Basel had come out with something in March which one would assume that eventually the Fed will adopt for the standardized approach to counter party credit and I think JPM alluded on Slide 8 to the idea that could add depending on whether you look at the whole Company whether the holding company or the bank units upwards of 20 basis points to the leverage ratio because it takes into account the net integrated expense.
I was wondering if you had done any preliminary work on that.
I think I we’ll say that our focus has been on wrapping up the work given what the April pronouncement is.
I’m not -- my understanding was that the Fed I think what came out in April is what we’re assuming that we’re going to need to operate in and there is something else that changes whether the benefit that’s great.
But our assumption is we’re going to be living on what came out on April 8th.
We’ll go next to Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
If I could just follow up on the net interest income comment I guess just bigger picture.
It seems like the outlook is a little bit lower than what you had previously thought? And I just want to think about building liquidity tends to be dilutive to NIM but not net interest income dollars.
Some of the things you point to are seasonal.
So just like big picture as we think about where you had thought NII [ph] might be a couple of quarters ago looking out -- what’s worse? Is it more run off than you thought? Less loan growth because you’re tightening up versus what some others are doing or is it just the rates haven’t moved at all or some combination of all that? I’d make a couple of points.
If you go back -- the guidance that we’ve given is that we’ve lined up from roughly $10.5 billion number and as we look out to third quarter and fourth quarter that’s what we see in our numbers.
I do think there have been relative to -- if you go back two three four quarters ago several things that have changed.
The first is that as we’ve worked hard to get in the position that we’re in from an LCR perspective we have -- LCR but with the rate environment that we’re managing the OCI risk that we have directed more of the investment portfolio to shorter daily treasuries is mortgage backed securities and as you go out over a couple of quarters that has a negative impact.
The second thing as you look at where we are and you look at the forward curve our assumptions on what yields are going to be that we can reinvest in outside of the switch and mix obviously those yields have not moved to the extent that the forward curves would have suggested at that point.
And I would say generally with respect to the loan portfolio I wouldn’t say there is much change.
I do think that the one thing to note that we’ve not talked about if you look at within our global banking segment this is the first quarter in a while where we’ve actually see the loan pricing spread stabilize and actually in certain of the portfolios move up at touch.
So that’s a positive.
So I don’t think there’s anything to your question -- that material that there are just some small things here and there and we wanted to update and share our thoughts with what we thought the second quarter would be but longer term I think we’re still in the same place as far as the 10.5 [ph] grinding up.
Okay.
And then just switching topics on the core LAS cost.
So ex all the litigation you iterated the target for year-end I think of about a $1 billion or $1.1 billion.
Still feel good about the $500 million per quarter late next year? Yes.
And is that something that we could see overshoots the downside like we’re seeing in charge-offs.
Obviously like credit is getting much better than a lot of us would have thought a couple of years ago.
Do you think those core LAS cost end up just being much lower than expected once you work through all the issues? I just said I hope so but I wouldn’t.
Let’s just get it down to that level and we’ll figure out what we can do from there.
I mean its arduous task and there’s still lot of work at it.
Okay.
And then just lastly on SLR again just care to provide any more details in terms of how much above 5% how much above 6% roughly.
So I would say that we’ve said we’re above 5%.
We’ve said that.
Assuming that Buffett preferred amendment gets done that adds up to another 10 basis points which obviously move this up.
And you can assume that the only other guidance that says that -- the bank ratio relative to the limit is stronger than where we are with the parent today but once again the Buffett amendment will help.
We will go next to Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Three questions.
One is operational risk you talked about and that represents about 25% of your risk weighted asset.
So in doing that and in the past that is very sticky and how do you think you can manage around the amount of capital just been trapped with the fact of all these past settlements that you had to kind of live through? Yes.
Your point Marty is a good one which is the operational risk model are based on a fairly long time series as we look at it.
And one of the things that we do continue to try to discuss this stress is that a lot of those operational risk losses are with respect to activity that we no longer engage and have no intention to engage.
So there are some of that dialog that continue but your point which is a fair one is that the time series are fairly long and it will remain out there and till the data runs out and I wish there was more that I can say but your point is a fair one.
Is the only true way is it almost disembarked from mortgage because there were so much in that particular area.
The only way to clean it up is to say maybe if that’s all related to those mortgage settlement -- mortgage related settlement it’s just not worth carrying that baggage going forward even though it wasn’t really your fault.
It was the country wide legacy more than it was your own operations.
I think your point Marty is the one that we’re working through and in fact we’ve done like you suggested that we’ve done and this is if you look at those activities that led to those losses we are no longer engaged in those activities.
If you look out at -- we are not doing business with monolines from a new rep perspective.
You look at private label securitization.
That activity with rep and warrant is not continuing.
So we think we’ve largely done that and I think the question just going forward is if you’ve proven and you clearly are outside of the activity is there any release to be had not the way that it worked now we’ll just have to work through and deal with it.
Got you.
Secondly you called out that mortgage servicing hedging was unfavorable this quarter.
If you kind of look at the environment it seemed like I’ve seen in others that it was actually a positive not a negative.
What was in particular happening in your mortgage servicing hedging? There was really nothing.
I think the comment that we made was that the question of the hedging performance this quarter relative to a year ago.
So the hedging was still a positive number.
It was just less so on a year-over-year basis.
Got you.
And then lastly when you think about moving from your mortgage backed securities into agencies and treasuries that have shorter durations that’s kind of throwing you to become more assets sensitive.
Are you thinking about -- because liquidity rules are making the balance sheet become more asset sensitive employing more interest rates swaps or off balance sheet hedging to rebalance and not become so much more effort sensitive vis-à-vis other pressures.
If you go back we have been pretty consistent at the -- the reason for the investment portfolio is to preserve the long-term value of the deposit and as you look at that portfolio it’s very clear there are only three things that we do within that portfolio.
There is treasury security there’s agency security and there is AA and AAA super-sovereign type activities.
And as it relates to becoming a little bit more asset sensitive we just think given the first and you’ve seen a large portion of it happen that -- just to drive and get to the point we have with LCR the shift in the portfolio helped this quarter.
It has the same benefit as I said of shrinking and reducing your OCI risk as you go through this and we’re not interested in starting to try to do things from a derivative and other perspective that somehow changed that.
The investment portfolio needs the work with how we set it up and we’re going to be prudent with respect to how we do it.
And we will go next with Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead.
Question on the mortgage business.
I think there was an article on The Wall Street Journal this morning or somewhere that the business is getting off to a slower start than we would have thought given the spring bounce back that was expected from the winter weather.
Has there been any rethinking Brian on sort of the eventual size and direction of the mortgage business there?  Nancy we kind of did that in 2011.
We got out of all but direct-to-consumer.
So basically we have focused a business on really supporting the core customer base and not trying to drive standalone market shares in the scheme of things.
And so what has happened to that is that as we sold off the non-core servicing we’ve gotten down to a significant less number of loans serviced and the originations $10 billion just quarter all direct-to-consumer which is a second highest total in the country direct-to-consumer mortgages.
So I think we are comfortable where we are.
Now the question is with the LAS aside the core business what does it look like and it will be a small business smaller business it will generate customer mortgages for our customers because it’s the core product they need but also that sales force quite frankly sells other products and does other things for us refers people for other products.
So I think that the days of being a 20% market share and suffer far behind is the days of being 4% market share direct-to-consumer and growing there.
And we will make some money in it and we will make some money servicing those four loans to delinquencies just those six and those on what we have been doing and that are far superior to even what we would have predicted and that’s how we run the business.
So effectively we’ve done what you said.
It’s just we’re still sort of down by the overhang of effectively -- the LAS portfolio is still working through the system and 300 000 delinquent mortgages of which only about -- the delinquency of the core portfolio is about 50 000 60 000.
Also could you make sort of a similar pronouncement about the card business? Where you stand in terms of chair and growth right now and are you where you want to be?  That’s different in a sense that on the card side we actually took it down unfortunately through charge-offs and might [ph] have been more than not but I think we have been relatively consistent on a domestic piece around $90 odd billion of outstanding and kind of grinding up and down from there and producing more cards that are coming out of the wall first from our customer from 700 000 we showed you two years ago first quarter to million plus this quarter and pretty consistently with a 1 million plus the third quarter of almost a 1 million in the fourth quarter another 1 million plus this quarter.
But the total we see there is actually usage of those cards.
They sold 60% plus to our primary customers but also the usage of the card because of the core three or four card product is driving it and we have some affiliate programs.
I think the card business is likewise.
It is where we want it but it’s a bit more of a payment stream business than it is a pure lending business as it was in the some of the past.
So the balances ought to be stable and ought to grow but with the high quality portfolio the payments rates in the 20s now -- I mean people pay us off because they are using the transaction card.
And just finally Bruce you have indicated that net interest income is going to decline somewhat due to liquidity issues et cetera.
Is that same going to be true of the NIM or is there anything in the mix change coming in the near term that can send the NIM up from -- the adjusted NIM up from this 236 level?  I think we said that we thought that the core NII ex-market related impact to be down slightly in the second quarter and then grow modestly through the rest of the year.
What you will see in the second quarter given that you have the full quarter -- the liquidity that’s on the book you would expect to see that the NIM in the second quarter moderate a little bit given that you’ve got the full quarter of the liquidity and then obviously as it starts to grow during the latter half of the year you’d expect the NIM to follow that.
And that’s the overall now that we have better insight as to what these rules are we don’t have to go back and go get 7% common equity ratio so we have very strong common equity ratio.
We have to go back and sort of look at Bruce and I think with the rules now in hand you can start to go work and say okay how do we optimize the next round because in terms of how we create maximum liquidity per dollar balance sheet of that size right? And we will take our last question from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research; please go ahead.
Two quick.
Just first on home equity net charge-off I guess if you exclude the TDR impact last quarter they were up.
And so we’re home equity NPLs.
You just sort of walk through what’s going on there.
Sure.
There were two things that Jim banged us up -- good question -- to the tune of about $50 million each.
And there were some home-equity stuff that we just rolled up that was going to have foreclosure cost that were greater than what it was going to be worth to try to get repaid.
So that happened during the quarter.
And then the second thing is there was some regulatory guidance that was given as it related to second lien loans that will be high and first lien that have been modified or charged-off that we saw during the quarter.
We think we got most of it in this quarter.
There maybe a little bit left in the second quarter.
But it’s a good question; that those two items banged us up to the tune of about $100 million and that was the reason for the change.
Okay that’s helpful and then just on the investment banking pipeline any commentary? I think what we see is the overall markets continue to be strong.
The pipeline and the amount of activity in discussions from an M&amp;A perspective is encouraging.
And I would say as we go forward that -- we talked about we felt the pipeline was strong at the end of the year and as we look at the pipeline it did not change materially one way or the other at the end of the first quarter versus the end of the year.
And as we said we feel very good about the quarter with revenue side being north of a $1.5 billion and the highest than any firm that has reported at this point.
Thank you very much everyone for joining and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s program.
(Operator instructions) It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning thanks everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for our second quarter results.
Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements today.
For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents our website or the other SEC filings.
So with that I’ll turn it over to Brian Moynihan our CEO for some opening comments before he goes to Bruce.
Thanks Lee and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you look at our results you can see the storyline for this quarter is much the same as it was for last quarter.
You can see that the revenue is showing stability in most of the core businesses.
You can see the good core expense control continued credit improvements and solid business activity throughout the franchise.
You can also see obviously the litigation expense from our legacy mortgage issues continued to affect our earnings this quarter.
And you can also see we’ve continued to build our strong balance sheet position and capital and liquidity.
So in a minute Bruce will take you through the details of the results.
But I thought it would be good if we spend a couple of minutes at the outset here talking about what our customer and client data is telling us about the economy and what we see in our franchise.
As we all know the economy is off to a little bit of a slow start this year but growth has picked up recently.
Most recent jobs data shows nearly 1.4 million are created in the first half of this year.
As we have strong positions leadership positions across consumer and commercial companies in the Americas we have a view into the key indicators of an improving economy which shows signs everywhere of improvement.
Even in advance with the short-term interest rate is changing which would help our rich consumer – our deposit rich consumer and business banking segments our consumer business had another good quarter.
It performed well growing earnings 29% from last year included solid origination activities across the various products.
In addition as we look at our underlying consumers they have increased their spending.
We can see in our data that the retail volumes on debit and credit cards were up 4% from last year’s second quarter but more importantly up 8% from the first quarter of this year showing increased momentum in spending among our card customers.
Consumers are growing card balances also they’re borrowing a little bit more and they continue to add to their deposit balances.
As you know home sales continue to improve across the industry and we can see on our own results as our originations and mortgages increased from first to second quarter but importantly our purchase mortgage origination continue to grow.
Our home equity originations also were up almost 30% for the quarter.
When you look at the underlying transactional activity and volume activity in our stores 7 to 8 million visitors come in each week showing continuous strong activity.
We can also see that in our online activity where 30 million online customers continue to grow their overall volumes and importantly in our mobile activity where 15.5 million mobile customers continue to increase the use of technology including depositing 10% of all the checks retail checks in our company through their mobile phones and other devices.
The health of the consumer is also evident in our asset quality.
Delinquencies continue to improve.
Our consumer card loss rate ended the quarter at less than 3%.
We see on the wealth management side the consumer the market’s growth has added to consumer wealth.
We have nearly $2.5 trillion in client balances in our global wealth and investment management business including a $100 billion in the brokerage assets for their retail and preferred customer base in our consumer business.
We also see encouraging signs throughout our commercial customers.
Commercial construction has improved and manufacturing activity in our clients has accelerated.
The borrowing by our commercial customers remains healthy across the industry and credit quality is very strong.
Encouraging is that middle-market utilization rates are moving forward again this quarter ever so slightly.
Industry sales and trading activity among our trading counterparties has been low as many of our peers have talked about in this low volatility environment.
However our business – underlying business performed well.
Tom Montag and his team had - our global markets business posted $1 billion - $1.1 billion in earnings for the quarter.
Our investment banking pipeline remains strong and the back half of 2014 looks healthy.
While the economy still faces challenges progress is being made throughout the economy but also throughout our company.
We are seeing good business activity and a strengthening as we go through 2014.
We are seeing improved financial health for our consumers our customers and our corporate customers.
But the most important thing to think about is the signs of a gradually improving economy is how our businesses is continually positioned to take advantage of the activity and deliver for you our shareholders.
With that I’ll turn it over to Bruce.
Great thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
Let’s start on slide 2 and work through the second quarter results.
We recorded earnings of $2.3 billion or $0.19 per diluted share this quarter which included pretax litigation expense of $4 billion which equated to roughly $0.22 a share after-tax.
$3.8 billion of the litigation expense is associated with the build in reserves for previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters which also included the AIG settlement that we announced this morning.
We are very pleased to have reached the definitive agreement with AIG which resolves all outstanding RMBS litigations between the parties for a settlement amount of $650 million.
This agreement is important for two primary reasons.
First we have now resolved 95% of the unpaid balance of all RMBS as to which securities litigation has either been filed or threatened for all Bank of America related entities.
It also includes AIG’s agreement to withdraw as an objector to the Bank of New York Mellon private label securities settlement referred to as the Article 77 proceeding.
Revenues this quarter on an FTE basis were $22 billion relative to the second quarter of 2013 revenue was down $990 million driven by lower net interest income and mortgage banking income.
Relative to the first quarter of 2014 it was approximately $800 million lower as higher investment banking fees higher mortgage banking revenue was more than offset by seasonally lower sales and trading revenue as well as lower equity investment income.
Total non-interest expense for the quarter was $18.5 billion but included $4 billion of litigation expense.
If we back out that litigation expense and compare it to Q2 2013’s expenses expenses improved by $1 billion or 6% which was driven by lower LAS non-litigation expenses and to a lesser extent our new BAC savings.
If we back out the $1 billion of retirement-eligible incentive comp from our first quarter results as well you can see expenses declined roughly $700 million from the first quarter as a result of lower revenue-related compensation within our global markets business lower LAS expenses ex litigation and to a lesser degree our new BAC savings.
Provision for credit losses was $411 million with net charge-offs of $1.1 billion and a reserve release of $662 million during the quarter.
Our results from the quarter also benefited from the sale of $2.1 billion in non-performing residential loans.
The income statement benefit from that sale was approximately $350 million of pre-tax or $0.02 a share after-tax and you saw roughly a $150 million of that benefit flows through other income and the balance through the recovery of net charge-offs.
And lastly the aggregate amount of a few other items including debt securities gains equity investment income net DVA as well as FAS 91 resulted in a benefit to EPS of approximately $0.04 a share.
If we move to Slide 3 and look at our balance sheet highlights you can see the balance sheet increased $21 billion from the first quarter of 2014.
Our debt securities increased as a result of valuations and increases to highly liquid securities in our primary banking subsidiaries.
Our Repo match book increased as well.
If we look at ending loans they were down $4.3 billion primarily due to lower residential mortgages principally within our discretionary portfolios and that also included the $2.1 billion bulk sale that I just mentioned.
If we exclude residential mortgage loans our consumer loans rose slightly as our US card balances grew $1.3 billion and our securities-based lending with our wealth management clients increased $1.8 billion.
This was partially offset by pay-downs within our home equity book.
If we move to the commercial side commercial loans were up modestly as C&amp;I growth was mostly offset by a few sizable loan pay-downs as well as a focus on overall relationship returns.
Period end deposits were over $1.1 trillion and reached record levels.
Our tangible common equity ratio improved 14 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 to 7.14%.
Tangible book value per share was $14.24 a 3% improvement from the first quarter and it was driven by both our earnings during the quarter as well as a $2.3 billion increase in the value of our debt securities which you saw flow through OCI.
Lastly to further enhance our Tier-1 capital structure during the second quarter we received shareholder approval and amended the Series T preferred shares which increased our Tier-1 capital by $2.9 billion and we issued $1.5 billion in preferred stock during the quarter at a favorable rate.
On Slide 4 we show our capital ratios under Basel 3.
Under the transition rules our CET1 capital was $153.6 billion risk weighted assets $1.28 trillion and that resulted in a ratio of 12%.
If we look at our Basel 3 regulatory capital ratios on a fully phased-in basis we saw very strong improvements in the first quarter of 2014.
Our CET1 capital improved $7 billion driven by earnings OCI improvement as well as well as lower threshold deductions.
The numbers in the chart reflects risk weighted assets under the standardized approach with our CET1 ratio improving from 9% to 9.5% well above our 8.5% 2019 proposed minimum requirement.
Under the advanced approach our CET 1 ratio improved from 9.6% at the end of the first quarter of 2014 to 9.9%.
That was driven by the improvement in our capital partially offset by an increase in risk-weighted assets.
If we turn to the supplementary leverage ratios we estimate that at the end of the second quarter of 2014 we exceeded the updated US rules that are applicable beginning in 2018.
Our bank holding company exceeds the 5% minimum and our primary bank subsidiaries BANA and FIA are both in excess of the 6% minimum.
If we turn to Slide 5 on funding and liquidity our long-term debt of $257 billion was up modestly during the quarter as our debt issuances were larger than maturities during the period.
As we look forward at our debt issuance during the balance of the year we’ll continue to be opportunistic but we do expect our parent issuance to be below the $13 billion of contractual maturities in the second half of 2014.
We’ll also likely to continue to issue term debt out of our primary bank subsidiaries.
Our second quarter 2014 long-term debt yields improved 12 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 2.29%.
We realized significant improvements given only two years ago this yield was over 3% and our average debt balances were nearly $75 billion higher.
Our total global excess liquidity sources during the quarter increased to a record $431 billion as bank liquidity continue to grow in the second quarter and our time to required funding remained strong at 38 months.
If we turn to Slide 6 our net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.2 billion consistent with the first quarter of 2014 is a less negative impact from market-related adjustments was offset by an anticipated decline in the core net interest income.
Negatively impacting our reported net interest income during the quarter were market-related adjustments of $175 million and that compares to $273 million negative in the first quarter of 2014 as you all know long-term rates declined again during the quarter.
Our net interest income if we exclude the market-related adjustments declined as previously expected and communicated due to seasonally lower average consumer loan balances and yields offset by an extra day of interest and all of that resulted in net interest income of $10.4 billion.
As a result of the increased liquidity in the first half of the year as well as lower loan balances and loan yields the net interest yield excluding market-related adjustments declined 10 basis points to 2.26%.
We continue to thoughtfully manage our OCI sensitivity and are very mindful of the liquidity and leverage rules as this quarter we invested more into shorter duration treasury securities.
We continue to remain positioned to benefit if interest rates move higher particularly from the shorter end of the curve.
And as we head into the back half of 2014 we still expect modest improvement off of the second quarter of 2014 level of net interest income which was $10.4 billion excluding market-related adjustments.
Non-interest expense on Slide 7 was $18.5 billion during the second quarter and once again included $4 billion of litigation expense.
As we mentioned $3.8 billion of the litigation expense relate to a build in reserves associated with previously disclosed legacy mortgage related matters including the AIG agreement.
If we exclude litigation total expenses were $14.6 billion this quarter.
If we compare those to the first quarter of 2014 and exclude retirement eligible costs that we saw during the first quarter of 2014 our expenses declined $700 million on the lower incentives related to sales and trading revenue reduced LAS non-litigation expense and to a lesser extent New BAC savings.
Our legacy assets and servicing expenses during the quarter ex litigation were $1.4 billion and declined approximately $150 million from the first quarter of 2014.
As we look forward with respect to our two expense programs New BAC as well as our LAS expenses ex litigation we have modified our expectations slightly.
Our New BAC expense program is ahead of schedule and we now expect to reach a quarterly level of $2 billion in expense savings in the fourth quarter of 2014 as opposed to mid 2015.
This means on an annualized basis we will have fully achieved the $8 billion target that we announced in 2011.
In the second quarter of 2014 our quarterly savings rate that was achieved on New BAC was $1.8 billion plus.
Moving to our LAS expenses ex litigation we continue to make very good progress but our compliance with applicable mortgage programs as well as governance guidelines may delay the expected timing of achieving our $1.1 billion goal by one quarter.
If we turn to asset quality on Slide 8 you can see credit quality once again improved on all fronts.
Net charge-offs declined $315 million from the first quarter of 2014 to $1.1 billion or a 48 basis points net loss ratio.
As I mentioned earlier this quarter did include a $2.1 billion sales of bulk non-performing loans which included recoveries of $185 million on previously recorded net charge-offs.
If we exclude the effect of the bulk sale net charge-offs they’ve declined a $130 million or 9% and the net loss ratio would have been at 56 basis points.
These are decade level loans.
Delinquencies a leading indicator of net charge-offs also showed improvement during the second quarter.
Provision expense during the quarter was $411 and we released $662 million of reserves.
We would expect net charge-offs going forward to continue to show modest improvement from the second quarter of 2014 levels of $1.3 billion which excluded the recoveries that we received on the non-performing loan sales.
We would also expect reserve releases to decline modestly through the balance of 2014.
Let’s walk through the business segment results now starting on Slide 9 with consumer and business banking.
We continue to make solid progress on the strategy in this business through deepening relationships and reducing our costs by optimizing the delivery network.
We are simplifying the product set as we reduce the number of offers offerings and focus the smaller product sets on customer feedback and offer greater rewards to customers who bring us more of their relationships.
Some of the more significant operational activity during the quarter included the rollout of an advanced platform for mobile banking that had added functionality rolling out the safe balance checking account as well as an enhanced preferred rewards program that we launched after a successful pilot program.
We are pleased with the results again this quarter as our earnings of $1.8 billion grew $29% from the second quarter of 2013 and were up 7% from the first quarter of 2014.
This business generated a 24% return on allocated capital during the quarter.
Our revenue was relatively stable across the periods as lower net interest income was partially offset by higher service charges.
Our expenses are down 4% from the second quarter of 2013 and lower operating litigation and personnel costs.
Our network delivery optimization benefit continued as we reduced another 72 banking centers through both sales as well as consolidations.
Our credit quality remains strong as net charge-offs decline versus both periods.
Our U.S.
credit card business exited the quarter with less than a 3% loss rate in June.
Second quarter provision expense was $534 million our net charge-offs improved $313 million from the second quarter of 2013 and $36 million from the first quarter of 2014.
We released $120 million more in reserves this quarter than the second quarter of 2013 and $242 million more than the first quarter of 2014.
From a customer activity perspective this quarter we saw continued growth in our mobile banking customers which reached 15.5 million customers and our customer deposit transactions using mobile devices represented 10% of all transactions.
Our average deposits of $544 billion are up organically almost $11 billion or 2% compared to the first quarter of 2014 and up 5% or nearly $25 billion compared to the second quarter of 2013 and we did that as our rates paid on our deposits reached a new low of 6 basis points.
Our brokerage assets surpassed $105 billion and are up 26% year-over-year based on both improved market valuations as well as customer flows.
Our card issuance remained strong at 1.1 million new accounts in the second quarter of 2014 with approximately two-thirds of those cards going to existing customers.
We saw growth in ending U.S.
credit card balances this period with ending balances up $1.3 billion relative to the first quarter of 2014 and our risk-adjusted margin remains strong at approximately 9%.
If you move to consumer real estate services the loss in the quarter was driven by $3.8 billion of litigation expense.
Overall we saw higher originations improved mortgage banking revenues and lower cost in both the fulfillment as well as the servicing sides of the business.
Let’s focus first on the reported sub-segments of home loans where we record the origination of consumer real estates.
Our home loans saw better leverage versus the first quarter of 2014 as both revenues and expenses improved.
Our first mortgage retail origination were $11.1 billion and were up 25% from the first quarter of 2015 leading to higher core production revenues.
As Brian mentioned our mix of originations continued to shift to purchase as we are now at 47% purchased versus 17% in the year ago quarter.
At the end of the quarter our origination pipeline was up 15% from the first quarter of 2014 but our applications per day are slowing a bit.
Our home equity originations were $2.6 billion and increased 31% from the first quarter of 2014.
We continued to reduce production staffing levels and the savings from several quarters of these reductions are beginning to show in our expense levels.
If we move to the legacy assets and servicing sub-segment the driver here was aforementioned litigation costs.
From a cost of servicing perspective our LAS expenses ex litigation did declined $141 million to $1.4 billion and our number of 60 plus day delinquent loans dropped 14 000 units to 263 000 units or down 5% from the end of the first quarter of 2014.
The primary revenue component in our LAS sub-segment servicing fees declined $40 million versus the first quarter as the size of our servicing portfolios declined.
This was offset by a better net hedge performance on our MSRs.
Also during the quarter we did benefit from lower rep and warrant provisions which was $87 million or down nearly $100 million from the first quarter of 2014.
If we turn to Slide 11 global wealth and investment management this business turned in another record revenue quarter our pre-tax margins remained strong north of 25% for the sixth consecutive quarter.
Our revenue of $4.6 billion was up 2% from the second quarter of 2013 and 1% over the first quarter of 2014.
Record asset management fees offset the softness in transactional activity.
Net income $724 million was slightly lower than both comparative periods driven by increased expenses.
Our expense levels versus the second quarter of 2013 reflect higher revenue-related incentive comps other volume-related costs as well as continued investments in technology and other areas that support the growth that we are seeing within the business.
Relative to the first quarter of 2014 expenses were driven by higher revenue-related costs litigation-related expenses as well as marketing.
Our return on allocated capital during the quarter was 24%.
The momentum we are seeing in flows continued and was quite strong during the quarter.
Client balances were up $72 billion from the end of the first quarter of 2014 to a record $2.5 trillion.
Long-term AUM flows were nearly $12 billion for the quarter marking the fifth straight year of positive quarterly AUM flows.
Our ending client loan balances were up $3.9 billion to a record $123 billion which is up 3% from the first quarter of 2014 as we saw growth in both our securities-based lending as well as our residential mortgage lending.
From a referral perspective we continued to see coordinated efforts across wealth management and the banking groups as our referrals resulted in the funding of more than 250 institutional retirement plans worth more than 2.4 billion assets this quarter and that compares to a 156 wins in the year ago quarter of 600 million assets.
If we turn to Slide 12 our global banking earnings for the quarter were $1.4 billion up 4% from the second quarter of 2013 and up 9% over the first quarter of 2014.
Our return on allocated capital was very strong at 18%.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 our revenue showed modest improvement while expenses increased and credit cost declined.
Within the revenue category our investment banking fees company-wide this quarter were $1.6 billion up 5% from the second quarter of 2013 and up 6% on a linked quarter basis.
We maintained a solid leadership position in investment banking fees and we had particularly strong equity underwriting results during the quarter.
Our provision was $132 million during the quarter and included a $156 million reserve build.
Our provision costs were favorable to both comparative periods as we added less reserves in the first quarter of 2014 and had less charge-offs compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Expenses increased $50 million versus the second quarter of 2013 on higher litigation but improved $129 million from the first quarter of 2014 on lower personnel and back-office support costs.
If we look at the balance sheet average loans were $271 billion during the quarter up 6% compared to the second quarter of 2013 but flattish compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Our loan balances relative to the first quarter of 2014 bear – I think several comments but I’d like to make the first is we saw sizable pay-downs during the quarter as our customers accessed the capital markets.
We had approximately $2 billion of such pay-downs where our customers chose access to markets and refinanced existing bank loans.
Within commercial real estate we continued to optimize the mix with several small portfolio sales that took those balances down little over $2 billion.
We are being sensitive with respect to pricing of commercial loans as we are not going to chase loans at the expense of overall client relationship profitability goals.
And lastly within the global banking segment deposit flows remained solid and were stronger at the end of the quarter.
If we move to global markets on Slide 13 we earned $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2014 that’s up 14% from the year ago period and down seasonally 16% from the seasonally strong period of the first quarter.
Net DVAs during the quarter was a gain of $69 million versus gains of $49 million in the second quarter of 2013 and a $112 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Despite the slowdown in FICC across the industry group we were pleased with the results this quarter.
Our revenue was up 9% from the second quarter of 2013 but down 9% from the seasonally high first quarter of 2014.
Our second quarter of 2014 revenue did include an equity gain of roughly $240 million on the modernization of an equity investment.
That is not reflected as part of our sales and trading revenues.
Our sales and trading revenue net of DVA was $3.4 billion which was 1% lower than the second quarter of 2013 and 17% lower than the first quarter of 2014.
Our FICC sales and trading revenue during the quarter increased 5% compared to the second quarter of 2013 and was down 20% from the seasonally higher first quarter of 2014 levels.
Driving the year-over-year improvement within fixed were results in our mortgage business our munis business as trading conditions and our performance improved in both areas.
Those improvements were partially offset by weaker financial performance in foreign exchange as well as commodities.
On the equity sales and trading side we were down 14% from the second quarter of 2013 and 11% from the first quarter of 2014 as lower market volatility depressed overall secondary market client activity.
Expenses were up from the second quarter of 2013 on higher technology and staff support investments and to a lesser degree incentives but down from the first quarter of 2014 in line with the seasonal revenue decline that we saw.
Trading-related assets on average increased $23 billion to $460 billion during the quarter and our return on allocated capital was 13% during the second quarter.
On Slide 14 we show all other; revenue was down $463 million from the first quarter of 2014 and lower equity investment gains of $618 million which were partially offset by lower negative market-related adjustments to net interest income during the quarter.
Our second quarter 2014 expense and all other is down $1.3 billion from the first quarter as it included retirement eligible incentive costs and some litigation expense.
The second quarter of 2014 provision benefit of $246 million was $111 better than the first quarter of 2014 and $67 million better than the second quarter of 2013.
Net charge-offs of $11 million improved $195 million from the first quarter of 2014 driven by the recoveries that I had mentioned associated with our bulk NPL sales.
During the quarter our effective tax rate was relatively low primarily as a result of the impact of tax preference items on a lower earnings base.
For the back half of 2014 we would expect to see an effective tax rate of approximately 31% ex any unusual items.
I am going to wrap up before we take questions with a couple closing comments.
We feel like we made very strong progress during the quarter.
We saw good business activity across the customer base.
We experienced year-over-year revenue growth in our global banking global markets and global wealth management businesses.
Our consumer business profitability grew 29% from last year and in the mortgage business we are taking cost out of the fulfillment side as well as the cost to service our delinquent loans.
We reported $0.19 of earnings and absorbed cost allowing us to resolve all outstanding RMBS issues with AIG and build substantial reserves for our remaining legacy mortgage issues.
We did this while adding to our already strong Basel 3 capital ratios and improving our liquidity measures to record levels and our asset quality improved to decade low loss ratios.
And with that we’ll go ahead and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first quarter from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey a couple questions.
One you had some callouts on some nice gains and I know a couple of other banks reporting here this cycle have done the same thing.
I’m wondering how much more in your pipeline do you think you have to extract some value from the mortgage-related portfolio here that you're in the process of selling down (inaudible)?  We took Betsy a piece of our non-performing loans out and as non-performing loans and as you know when you receive it to the extent that you receive income you write down the basis for those loans and we took those loans out and saw healthy gains.
We continue to look at the sale of non-performing loans but I would not expect anything near the magnitude from the sale of non-performing loans that we saw this quarter.
Okay separately on just litigation related stuff you highlighted the AIG agreement that – it looks like a great win for you guys.
I guess the question is does them pulling out as a dissenter do anything to speed up the timing on that Article 77 case?  I think the – the timing is going to progress on the schedule that it otherwise would have – I think you all know that from an objector perspective that they were probably the strongest and most vocal objector with respect to the case and we’ll just have to see as we move forward what the impacts from them dropping their objection to the cases.
I think the other thing that’s important is as it relates to holding of the securities or at least a basis to object but they were the largest holder that was out there from holding securities as part of the settlement.
I think they noted that in the release this morning.
Yep thanks.
Okay and then just lastly it’s been a lot of debate recently about how the Fed could potentially start to exit.
Obviously in the [inaudible] they talked about that and it sounds there were calls recently about how people are thinking about rate betas.
I know from the Q you have a relatively positive outlook for what rising rate does to your earnings stream.
Could you just remind us what percentage of your deposits are consumer and how you are thinking about rate betas in a rate rise environment relative to asset betas?  Sure couple of things if you look at asset sensitivity you’ll see that the exposure to a 100 basis point parallel shift in rate that the benefit increased this quarter from about $3.2 billion in the first quarter to $3.4 billion.
As you look at the deposit base a couple of things of note the first is north of 70% of the overall deposits that we have throughout the company are within our consumer and wealth management business and as it relates to – I would say overall asset betas that through history given the branch network and the relationships those tend to be very stable.
I think you get a sense for that as you look at the continued deposit growth that we’ve seen while at the same time taking rates paid down pretty significantly.
If you move to the institutional side and look at where we are roughly 75% of the deposits that we have within the institutional business are domiciled here in the U.S.
and the predominant mix of that is with our core corporate and commercial customers and if you look at the reason that they are holding those deposits with us is because we tend to be their core relationship bank.
We do their cash management we do their treasury service revenue and have relationships that are beyond just a place for them to put their deposits.
So as we move forward there is obviously a level of uncertainty to the extent of a Fed withdrawal but as we look at the overall deposit base the stability of it and our outlook going forward we feel like that we’re very well positioned.
I would add on the consumer side also as you look at year-over-year dynamics in terms of deposit growth of $25 billion also look at this we are still running off a CD portfolios that was more of a funding portfolios for some of the companies that we acquired.
So that I think there is a round number of $10 billion reduction in CDs over that time period and we’ve also obviously sold some deposits not a huge amount.
So that growth is over top of all that and net.
So we feel good about the consumer franchise ability to continue to grow deposits even while being very disciplined on price and as rates rise that value will be recognized and we expect those deposits now are much more core you have the checking account deposit year-over-year I think were up to 25% to 30% in terms of average balance.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll go next to Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes hey good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up quickly up on that deposit question.
I noticed that non-interest bearing was up 11%; interest-bearing up only 1%.
So that speaks to your efforts.
Do you think there is more to go there or should we start to see deposit growth more in line with your peers at this point? I think if you look at the - just on the consumer business the year-over-year growth was $25 billion and the linked quarter growth was $10 billion so obviously we are growing at a faster rate in the current environment at the spots so to speak Jim than we have been year-over-year.
And so the growth rate of 2% was nominal in a quarter which would be annualized 8% about high 5% to 6% year-over-year.
So it’s accelerating still by the good core activity.
Right okay great and then on loan growth you still have – as you mentioned a couple of asset sales still some legacy asset run-offs.
When do we start to see the inflection point in your view and maybe if you can give us a sense of underlying demand that you are seeing in your customer group?  Sure let’s go – it’s a very good question Jim and I think we need to break out and discuss – if you look at the declines that we saw in the residential mortgage area that those are largely due to whole loan repayments of loans that are held within our investment portfolio.
And so if you look at the consumer business I think there are couple of key things that I would note.
The first is on a linked quarter basis this is the first quarter in some time where we actually saw ending card balances within our domestic card balance increase and those were up as we mentioned roughly $1.3 billion from the first quarter to the second quarter.
So we saw growth there and then if you move to what we saw within the wealth management area as I mentioned we saw very strong growth both in securities based lending as well as within mortgage origination there.
Once again on the home equity front the progress that we are making on the origination front where we saw about $2.6 billion is really being masked by the run-off and the amortization of the home equity book that we have that runs off to the extent of $3 billion to $4 billion a quarter.
So within the consumer businesses if you look at kind of the core front-end we are seeing some consumer loan growth that just gets masked by the run-off of some of the consumer real estate.
On the overall commercial and corporate side I did referenced the couple pay-offs.
As we look at one of the benchmarks that we look at is the revolver draws that we have within our commercial banking business that number which had gotten as low as in the low 30s was up almost 100 basis points this quarter and it’s now in the high 30s.
So we are starting to see some greater activity on the revolver space within our commercial banking customers and overall activity with the corporate customers continues to be good but we are seeing – as I reference customers taking advantage of favorable debt capital markets which we obviously benefit from a debt underwriting perspective.
Right that's fair.
Just one last question on the LCR did you – maybe I missed it did you disclose where you are on that front?  We did not at the parent at this point we are above 100% at the parent so we are good from a 2017 compliance there.
If we look at the combined BANA and FIA LCR ratios those two companies or two banks will be put together October 1 that LCR numbers in the high 80s at this point and we’ll continue to build the LCR ratio at the banks to be at least a year ahead of where we need to be.
Will that put any further pressure on NIM if you are building more liquidity there?  It should not there – as we look at there has been a significant build at this point and as we look at the funding and the balance of that between both core consumer deposit growth as well as where we are that should not have an effect.
If you look at the build that we talked about in the first quarter and second quarter at this point I would say we’ve eaten that expense and we now need to get after it and optimize to get the expense knocked back down.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And we’ll go next to Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Matt.
On expenses it seems like most of the New BAC savings are in the run rate here yet we still read about – some various expense initiatives that you have underway in terms of branch rationalization and simplification and things like that.
So just wondering is there another New BAC or just ongoing efforts to bring down costs and how meaningful those might be?  I think in the near-term Matt the number one thing about cost is continue to work down the LAS legacy costs down to a more normalized level on a per loan basis and also keep producing the number of delinquent loans.
So that’s the real expense leverage and what Bruce talked about earlier is we get to make sure we do it the right way especially in connection with sort of finishing up some of the regulatory work there.
That’s the real large dollar amount.
You are pointing out exactly that situation on the core you run at about $13 billion a quarter on core expenses not a bad number if you annualize it and sort of think that through but the real question is how do you hold it there and keep investing in the businesses.
And so when we started the New BAC we never gave a target that said we are going to save of this money but we are going to reinvest that we gave you a sort of net target and now we are reaching that.
And so what we would challenge our teams too is how to maintain a good operating leverage going forward and so we are more about simplifying the company and continuing to take out expenses.
But a lot of that will offset the 1000 people we’ve added in the branches that we sell more products if you are seeing the benefit of the continued adds we make in the wealth management business and training programs.
We hired a 30% or 40% more people out of schools this year because we got to keep replenishing our talent base commercial bankers et cetera.
So as you look forward the inflationary type things that go on merit raises and healthcare expenses and stuff like that and investing in the business including the $3 billion plus we put in technology developments every year will need to be offset by hard expense work and so that’s the plan we have and we are putting this we keep driving those plans in place.
So there will be less bottom-line reduction on the core expense base and more how you hold it there in a relatively slow growth environment.
Okay so just to try and summarize even if there is some modest revenue growth you would hope to keep that $13 billion relatively stable on a net basis then?  Yes if we want accept them when markets kicks up you are going to have more comp related to that or wealth management comp which is good.
So you got to be careful because those things kind of come and go and you can see that just the last couple of quarters.
But if you think what David Darnell and the team have done in the retail business they are still rationalizing the branch structure which will offset putting more people in the branches that are more personal bankers and FSAs.
And they’ve done a pretty good job at offsetting that.
In addition we are repatriating some jobs to help on the consumer credit – customer delight scores and stuffs from places that legacy enterprises had in other places and bringing them in and that rationalization is going on and that’s adding to our job count in the near term but we’ll rationalize back out.
Okay.
And then on the LAS cost obviously making good progress there and I am not sure there is too much concern if it gets pushed out one quarter.
But is there still the goal of getting down to $500 million or below $500 million per quarter?  Yes and that’s going to trail and move with this.
We drive down the 60 plus day delinquent loans but clearly the $1.1 billion that we’ll either have in the fourth quarter or the first quarter of next year is still way too high given the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans that we have as well as the size of the servicing portfolio.
Okay and then just lastly if I can squeeze in on the CCAR capital resubmission process just remind us when you expect to get an update on that?  Sure.
We submitted our materials to the Fed on May 27.
They have up to 75 days to respond.
I believe the 75th day is August 10 and we continue to see where they come up.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go to next to Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Quick question on the match book was up or at least the Fed funds sold and repurchased on the asset side was up 6.5% quarter-on-quarter.
It's the opposite of what we're seeing at a lot of banks and trends in the market.
So I am just curious is there an opportunity to get closer to clients? Is this a function of the fact that your SLR is in great shape so why not use it when you can? Just curious on what is underlying that trend?  Yes I would think Glenn probably more than anything if you go back and look at both the notional size of the balance sheet as well as the match book we were probably a little bit lower at the end of 2014 - the end of the first quarter of 2014 than you would normally see.
So that number will bounce around but I wouldn’t read anything into the fact that it was up because it was much lower at both the end of 2013 as well as the first quarter of 2014.
Anything different on the client usage front? It is bucking a trend though I hear your comments on the year-end.
It's just with the changes in SLR it's changing pricing theoretically I just don't know if it's more theoretical than actual.
I think the pricing is probably more theoretical because if you look across the industry we continue to see both the banks in Europe as well as the banks in Asia provide at so I am not sure you’re seeing any meaningful movement in what you are able to charge from a match book perspective.
I get that yes thanks.
Okay switching gears in wealth management obviously everything is doing pretty darn good in wealth management.
But I’ll pick a little bit and I’ll just ask expense – negative operating leverage in a quarter when the markets are doing well meaning revenues were up or expenses are up more.
I heard and saw your comments on the additional investments in technology.
Is it comp or is it that additional investment technology? In other words when markets are growing and flows are great you would expect margins to hold their ground not give it up.
Maybe a little more color on what investments to help that business grow would be helpful?  Sure well you’ve got a couple things the first is that as you look at the expense growth during the quarter and you look at the buckets roughly half of it relates to incentive related comp that is a result of increased revenues.
We do have a couple of initiatives that you’d expect to roll off over the next couple quarters within the wealth management business.
We obviously have the rollout of Merrill One over the last couple of quarters where you saw some expense there.
There we spent some additional money spend as we invest in system related to retirement systems and retirement programs as we continue to see growth there.
And so you do have some of that activity as well as just making sure that the right investment within the various control support functions are appropriate.
So – at the same time as we look forward you need to see positive operating leverage not negative operating leverage and that’s what we’ll look to work for as we go through the next couple quarters of the year.
You point out I mean it’s an obvious point and we – the team is focused on it but we have made some near term investments including training programs and hiring people into the business working to the branches and stuff to help but it something that we got to monitor closely and we think it will come back down and more in line with what you would expect.
Great I appreciate that.
Last one is slide 20 shows that the private-label outstanding claims keep going up every quarter.
Anything new there? I am not sure what's driving that and if – I know that we have most of this stuff accounts for in the settlements but just curious?  I think that the notable think that I would call out is that when we get private-label claims that comp there are two different types of claims that come in there is the first that our claims where people have had the ability to look at loan files and submit a claim based on a loan file not being what they’ve thought it be and the second is that you can have people that at points in time do what we call or throw in what we would characterize as a bulk claim where they are just throwing it in without having done any work whatsoever on the loan file.
And what’s important when you look at what we saw during the second quarter of 2014 we saw roughly $1.9 billion of original unpaid balance on the loans not loss gross of that amount the amount of bulk claims were no file reviews and went down was $1.9 billion.
So I would not read too much into that number because it’s not for loan files where there has been any work done and I would just say generally if you look at what we’ve seen regarding some of the recent decisions where there seems to be some stickiness at this point on different statutes of limitations as well as a recent ruling that came out of California with respect to RMBS litigation that we do feel like we are moving forward and getting AIG behind us is significant in regards to putting the rest of this behind us.
Sure   Okay.
I appreciate it.
That's it for me.
Thanks.
And we’ll go next to Jon McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Bruce the increase in Tier-1 common of $7 billion was impressive relative to the net income in the quarter.
Any more color on the drivers there? You mentioned AOCI.
What were the threshold deductions that helped drive the capital expansion so much more than that income?  Sure so as we’ve said given where we are from a disallowed DTA position that we’re at a point where broadly speaking we accrete capital on a pre-tax as opposed to an after-tax basis and so as you look at the results we had roughly $3 billion of pre-tax income.
We had roughly $3.5 billion of pre-tax OCIs that gets you to above $6.5 billion and then as you look at threshold deductions of roughly 10% take 10% of that $6.5 billion it gets you roughly $700 million that gets you to roughly $7.2 billion of capital build you back out the common dividend of 100 and that gets you to your $7.1 billion build.
Okay and that building at a pre-tax due to the DTA that’s something that should continue on a steady pace right?  Clearly at least over the next – I would say probably two to four quarters it will be a function of the exact earnings but for the near term that’s correct.
Okay and can you give us the numbers on what the excluded DTA is today and what it changed in during the quarter?  I believe that the excluded DTA was roughly $15 billion and it was down over – little over $1 billion.
Okay.
On RWA are there risks that the continued legal settlements would drive up your operational risk metrics or is there a forward-looking component to the op risk calc that already anticipates more settlements coming?  Yes we are mindful of the fact of settlements there is obviously a lot of discussion and dialogues around op risk RWA.
If you look at and when we noted that the reason risk-weighted assets went up during the quarter under the advanced approach it was we are doing exactly what you referenced was reflecting an increased amount of operational risk RWA.
We don’t give the exact number but you should assume that that amount is in the 26% to 27% of our total risk-weighted assets number and is in line with our largest peer.
Okay.
On capital on the last CCAR your binding constraint was the leverage ratio more than the risk-based Tier 1 minimum.
I assume the recent preferred issuance and the Buffett conversions will help close that gap and position you better for next year's CCAR minimum.
Could you comment on that? Or are there more things you can do to close the gap and have a quantitative cushion that's bigger to that leverage ratio next year as well?  Well the first John is jut to manage the notional size of the balance sheet which we continue to do.
The second thing that I would note is when you look at the sale of the re-performing loans that we did those are the types of assets that in the CCAR at least we believe we don’t have access to the federal reserves’ models but those are types of assets that tend to get hard.
So we continue to look hard and look to drive down the non-performing consumer real estate piece of what we have and this quarter was a good example of it.
And then you are exactly right with respect to the leverage ratio that there is a benefit that that preferred stock gives with north of $4 billion this quarter that we generated will continue to look to see if more preferred makes sense and then lastly we’ll continue to look at and see if sub that makes sense from a total capital perspective as well.
The incremental cost of those is very low and we just want to make sure the balance sheet is optimized for those different buckets.
Okay thanks and on sales and trading just in terms of the dynamics of the quarter did you see a pickup in June as the other banks did? And any sense of what drove that? Have you seen any follow-through on that?  Yes our activity levels and – if you saw a P&amp;L throughout the quarter while June was marginally better I would characterize the activity that we saw within the sales and trading business during the second quarter to be fairly consistent.
And if we look out at the third quarter typically with the summer the third quarter is a little bit seasonally slower than the second quarter.
If you look at our results last year you’ll see that and as we come into the third quarter there is nothing unusual in our third quarter numbers of last year and how we compare to those numbers is going to be a function of how well we perform this quarter and that’s obviously up to us.
John if you look at page 19 you can see the second quarter second quarter second quarter across the last three years and it’s remarkably stable in terms of markets revenue lower part of that page.
And so Tom and the team did a – a few years ago we actually reduced the headcount almost 5000 people and that’s allowed us to make $1 billion in this current environment as we did this quarter.
So this ebb and flow as you and I’ve talked about in various occasions it is a core part of what we do.
But we show you the separate P&amp;L we show that from the first quarter half a good quarter this quarter had a $1 billion bucks and it may come down as activity moves around the clients but it’s a relatively stable revenue base that we can make money on because of the expense adjustments we made last year – in the last couple of years.
Okay and last thing for me Bruce on the CRES page in terms of mortgage servicing revenues is this quarter's core mortgage servicing revenue a stable base as you see it? Or is there further shrinkage in the size of the servicing book from sales that are ongoing that would impact the servicing fee?  Yes there we’ve got one more sales that we’ll look to wrap up this quarter that’s got fairly high consent of 60 plus day delinquent loans.
But beyond that that one transfer this quarter were largely at the end of servicing sales and we are at a base of what you see should be what we have going forward with the plusses and minuses being what runs off versus what we put on.
Okay.
You're still taking rep and warranty provisions.
What are those for? Is that for current originations or is it still catch-up from past stuff?  As you look at I think rep and warrant was less than $100 million this quarter.
You are going to always have that as you go forward but we are not seeing much rep and warrant at all on recent originations that’s going to be more legacy related.
Okay thank you.
Thank you John.
And we’ll go next to Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
First question I had was just a follow-up on CRES.
Is there any sort of immediate benefit in terms of the ability to accelerate LAS legacy servicing cost reductions now because of the bulk sale?  From a number of units perspective as you look at the bulk sales over the – there is a piece of it that was – that we service and the results of a piece that others service.
So in the context of the number of 60 plus day delinquent loans it was not meaningful relative to the total.
Got it.
So what we're really looking at is more what you were talking about in response to John's question a minute ago which is the potential for one more sale this quarter and then just normal run-off.
That’s correct.
Got it.
Question for you while we're on the topic of mortgage stuff.
Obviously you had the $4 billion litigation reserve build essentially this quarter.
It appears based on what you gave as an after-tax impact that you take a full tax benefit against that.
Of course what we find with a lot of these things especially with like the DOJ settlements is that a large amount is not deductible.
Do you have any flexibility with respect to being able to use a lower tax rate?  A couple things we don’t give the exact numbers but if you go back and look at the first quarter we look at and try to understand what the tax treatment is for the different settlement.
There was a piece of it in the first quarter that we would have assumed was not tax deductible and you are right the piece that – and the reserves that we took this quarter there was a presumption that it was tax deductible.
And the short answer is until you get to the end you don’t know the exact mix.
But we try to be thoughtful with that and I would just say as it relates to the total number as we said last quarter there was $2.4 billion of litigation expense over and above what was for settlement.
In this quarter you got in the high threes and I think it gives you a sense as to the magnitude of the reserves that are built over the last two quarters.
Got it.
Switching topics you did talk about pricing on commercial loans in the context of not seeing a meaningful increase in commercial loan balances this quarter and I guess alluded to some discipline that you're exercising.
Can you talk a little bit about the conditions that you're seeing in the commercial loan market and where you think there is froth?  Sure if you look at an embedded under the global banking segment we’ve got the loans that are done within our corporate investment bank that tend to be for the larger companies and as we look at spreads and yields on a linked quarter basis within our business we saw relative stability in the yields in those businesses.
And as we look out at in the marketplace given that those loans that are brought for those customers tend to be broadly syndicated and there tends to be a relationship in the yield between that and where they can access capital in the capital market that low in pricing over the last quarter has hung in there and like I said it was generally flat Q1 to Q2.
I would say we tend to see a little bit more of a competitive pressure tends to be within the base commercial bank which is for middle-market companies where that they tend to be more one two or three bank deals and we have seen that area continues to be pretty competitive and we are just being disciplined with how we approach that market and given the footprint that we have we do have the flexibility to not chase things within some of these regional markets.
And just to follow-up on that when you say banks competing for that business are you using the word bank in a traditional sense or are you actually seeing a lot of the competition for those type of mid-market loans coming from outside of what we would think of as the traditional banking sector?  No I would – for the core commercial customer that’s going to be the traditional banking customer as you think of it.
Okay and then just a housekeeping question just to make sure I understand what you were saying.
You said there were – maybe $250 million of gains in Global Markets I guess probably – not to put words in your mouth but things like market.
And you – but I think you said that you did not include those numbers in the core equities or fixed income segment revenues.
Is that right?  Yes but that’s correct so we had a position that went public during the quarter.
There was a gain and it’s reflected in the revenues of the global market segment.
But we did not think that was appropriate to include that in the core FICC and equity sales and trading.
So if you go to the table on page 13 when you look at that FICC and equity sales and trading number ex DVA that that does not include any benefit from the gain that we saw within the overall segment during the quarter.
Got it perfect.
Thanks for the clarification.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
I was wondering; you've got a little less than $250 billion of residential real estate loans and $90 billion of home equity.
How much do you think those decline before those stabilize because I think you tried to talk about in terms of the overall loan growth.
But that's really – those are really the categories that are shrinking.
I mean do you have a sense as to where those categories will level out?  Well if you start from a home equity perspective I think that the repayment and run off of those is a god thing and not a bad thing.
And so you’ll continue to see – I would expect over the next couple of years that the amortization of those is going to be greater than the new loans coming on the book.
We would not expect though as you look at net interest income given the yields on those versus what you can do with other things that the run off of that book will have a negative impact from an overall net interest income perspective.
And as it relates to the whole loans piece that we have I would expect that that over time that will continue to run down.
We continue to look as we talked about before on the home loans business to put and to originate mortgages for customers where we want to hold those loans during the quarter we put about $6 billion of home loans that were originated for our customers on our balance sheet.
Roughly 75% to 80% of those would have been of the jumbo variety.
But I think to be realistic over the next probably couple of years you are likely to see a little bit more run-off of that then you’ll see new loans coming on and we obviously have the decision at that point of do you want to reinvest those proceeds and other whole loans that you can buy out in the market or invest those in securities and I would say at this point with LCR as well as what we are focused on from a customer perspective they are much more likely to be invested in securities than new whole loans that are not for our customers.
Got it and secondly the reserve build for legal I guess could you talk about how much you have in reserves in total? Or maybe address as to how you came up with that number? Given the fact that I think if I'm reading the footnotes correctly that your possible but not accrued losses kind of have stayed flat from the first quarter?  Yes couple things the range of possible loss that you quoted of being flat from the first quarter to the second quarter relates to our representation and warranty reserves not our litigation RTL.
So you are correct that the rep and warrant piece was flat quarter-over-quarter.
We do not update and provide a range of possible loss on litigation expense until we file the 10-Q.
As it relates to overall litigation reserves we do not put out an exact or a level of our litigation reserve what I do think is notable and probably most relevant is the information that I gave you as it relates to the litigation reserve that’s been built over the last two quarters that relates to legacy mortgage related matters and I think you can see and people are aware of what the most significance of those matters are.
And obviously each quarter as it relates to the reserving we go through each quarter and assess where we are and what we think is appropriate from a reserving perspective and we did that again in this quarter just like we do in any quarter.
Okay great and just a quick follow-up to the first one.
You had mentioned kind of investing some of the run-off from the mortgages and home equity portfolio in securities.
Is that in the context of keeping those balances kind of stable or would you actually increase that portfolio?  Yes the first goal is obviously as we’ve talked about it to find and invest in loans that are for our core customers across the platform and that’s priority one to the extent that there is residual or excess which there has been given the deposit growth that we’ve seen the money does gets invested and it’s been invested primarily in the most recent several quarters in securities.
I mentioned OCI risk the notable thing is that if you look at the OCI risk that we have as a company even though the securities book has increased significantly over the course of the last twelve months the overall level of OCI risk based on the different metrics that we look at is not changed and that’s the result of us shortening the portfolio investing in shorter duration treasury securities.
Okay thanks.
And we’ll go next to Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So the first question I have pertains to capital and RWA specifically.
So over the last five quarters we have actually seen the RWAs on a flat to upward trajectory; and then effectively the growth has mirrored the balance sheet growth that we've seen over that same period.
And I just wanted to get a sense as to whether there were any additional mitigation levers that you guys could potentially pull or whether those types of opportunities have been largely exhausted and thus the growth going forward will likely continue to mirror the balance sheet?  Yes I think as it relates to the risk-weighted assets they can either bifurcate risk-weighted assets under Basel 3 standardized versus those under Basel 3 advance.
As you look at the Basel 3 standardized ratios the benefits that we have there tend to come from the roll-offs of the different consumer loan portfolios both in first mortgage as well as in home equity and we would expect as we talked about throughout the call that you will continue to see a run-off there and given that a lot of the stuff that’s running off is higher loan to value than the new stuff that’s coming on that there is incremental benefit there.
So if you look at over the last five quarters I think the way that the standardized metric is set up the standardized metric is going to tend to mere the overall loan growth that you have and I am just – as I mentioned going forward on average it will probably be a little bit lower mix coming on than what rolls off.
On the advanced approach at this point as we look forward there will continue to be opportunities and stuff that’s advanced that tends to be heavier risk-weighted that rolls off between now and 2017 it’s not going to be anywhere near material as what we’ve seen and under the advanced approach the recent increase as you’ve seen has largely been attributable to operational risk as opposed to what we are seeing within the kind of the core loan categories.
Okay thanks.
Now that's really helpful.
And switching over to GWIM for a moment and actually taking a longer-term view on the earnings power within the segment there is one area where we have struggled from a modeling perspective.
It's trying to contemplate exactly how high the operating margin can get in a rising rate scenario because the operating leverage improvement can be fairly dramatic.
But presumably there is that peak margin level where competition is going to intensify to such a degree that effectively there's going to be no more room for improvement beyond I don't know let's call it 30%.
I didn't know if that was something which you guys had evaluated at least in the context of a rising rate scenario.
I think you’ve got one of the levers in the business that people often overlook is the lever towards rising rates because in the business itself the amount of total deposits and loans are significant $250 of deposits and loans.
And I think we said on the last call and as said many times we can see this margin moving towards 30% and that dynamic yield in that environment.
But I think when you get to there you start to top out a little bit if you just understand the broad base of revenue and the amount that goes through the grid and things like that that become a govern on what you can do beyond that.
But as the mix of our business of wealth management with the private banking business and loans and deposits from a general client base and what’s been there that gets leveraged in the upside as you described.
Okay great and one final one on credit.
At your Analyst Day a number of years ago you had given some guidance on through the cycle charge-off rates.
But clearly since that update your loan mix has changed fairly dramatically and at the same time underwriting standards have tightened meaningfully.
From what I recall I believe the through-the-cycle charge-off rate at that time that was implied was somewhere in the neighborhood of 120 bps.
And clearly it's going to be lower than that going forward but I was hoping you could give us an update maybe some updated guidance on where you think that through this cycle and net charge-off rate will likely end up?  I think if you look at the charge-offs the key is that when you really think about the broad constitution of $1.3 if you remove the recoveries you got to look at the card business and what changed since that time as we have changed our position the card business fairly dramatically with the sales from international portfolios and even how we’ve approached the U.S.
is based on the dynamics of the card business.
The good news is the card business is starting to grow in terms of balances and going back to an earlier question we got rid of the non-core aspects and now you are seeing the core start to come through $1.1 to cards.
People are using the cards more and the balance is growing.
And so I think that if you just think about that that number is going to be – is today and will be the dominant part of the charge-off questions and you should think that $100-ish billion and balances as you look forward you would expect that to grow but not continue to stop dramatically it’s not for us to change dramatically in terms of positioning our balance sheet because we need to keep that book balance because there is higher charge-offs and period of unemployment level.
So I’d say if you went back and look at that that is the biggest core adjustment between the two items and then the counter to that is if you look at the appendix page as you see the charge-offs on the mortgage business in the first mortgage business again recoveries but if you look at home equity side.
You still have a charge-off rate which based on the underwriting criteria the stuff going on will be much higher and so we had a couple $100 million before the charge-offs that you can see on page 21.
So we’d expect to see improvement in that from where we are but I’d say the card business is kind of about as good is getting very strong.
If you look at home equity you can reversal from the recoveries on the first mortgage loans.
But it is a fundamentally different level because we mix the balance sheet differently on purpose.
Okay that's great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
And we’ll go next to Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Going back to your LAS costs excluding litigation where you mentioned that it's probably – to get to that $1.1 billion target it’s going to take another quarter or two.
What should we be watching and how long do you think that LAS expenses are going to move to become non-material I guess is another way to say it? Can you give us things what we should be tracking?  Sure.
The first thing I want to be clear Paul that the – getting to the $1.1 billion has moved back – maybe moved back one quarter not two.
I'm sorry.
We are looking at one quarter.
The second though that the biggest item that really relates to the trajectory of LAS expenses is your number of 60 plus day delinquent loans because the cost to service that is many multiples what the cost of servicing a current loan is.
So as you go forward we have full limitation of the national settlement effective September 30.
That will be a big benchmark and then as you go beyond then as we said one to two quarter lag you will see expenses trend down as your number of sixty plus day delinquent loans trend down and as those trend down you need less people as well as a variety of other expenses.
So that’s the key metric to watch.
And as it relates to just how long that’s going to continue I would not expect that we get down to the level of what should be a recurring number of 60 plus day delinquents until probably the end of 2015 or the first part of 2016 so as it relates to continued expense leverage we would expect to see upside in that business probably all the way through the end of 2016 as it relates to driving expense down.
And Paul we’ve got work to do in a sense if we go back I think as we look at I think at the fourth quarter of 2012 it was about $3.1 billion the fourth quarter of 2013 I think it was $2.1 billion Bruce and then we said 1.1 – originally said higher then we brought down the $1.1 billion announced.
I think it is somewhere little higher than that but that’s the broad move and the question is how do you keep going on that and that is really going to be as Bruce said a number of 60 plus delinquent loans it’s largely where these people.
But we are also getting condition as we now got the place stable and that’s behind us so we can start to invest in technology that will add a level of improvement that we haven’t been able to invest in while we just had to get the work done.
And so we expect the systems deployment in that business as we move into the middle of 2015 and to 2016 and we expect consolidations of physical plans and things like that which will add to the expense leverage but we haven’t been able to do that as much yet just because of just the mass of the amount of the work that had to take place.
So there is still lot of work ahead of the team but if you put in the context the $2 billion this first quarter and expense reduction across eight quarters that lot of work has been done too.
And just a follow-up you talked about you do have another MSR sale I don't know how material that is.
But right now there has not been a lot of transfer of MSRs due to various – well Lawsky up in New York questioning a lot of the stuff that other companies are doing.
Is that – can that interfere with the sale or you think you can sell the MSR without the headline risk of Lawsky?  The MSR sales that I referenced that will happen in the second half of the year.
In the context of what we’ve done is relatively small.
It’s just that the delinquency content associated with that sale is high.
So it’s material from that perspective but from an overall size perspective it’s not material.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go next to Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I want to ask you a couple questions.
First off you've been harvesting about $400 million worth of gains out of the debt portfolio.
Is that in the sense of trying to minimize your AOCI risk when rates do go up as you're shortening the portfolio or just wanted to think about your strategy; because that's been a pretty consistent flow through over the last year?  As we look at those gains we are committed to not – as we continue to see liquidity build not taking incremental OCI risk as I referenced.
And so over the last year even as the securities portfolios has grown we’ve managed to keep the OCI risk from an absolute dollar perspective relatively flat and as you see markets move up and down obviously selling longer duration securities as you growth in the securities portfolio as part of that strategy.
No I just want to make sure that the gains are just an outflow of that overall strategy that you had talked about.
Yes you are exactly correct.
Okay when you look at the kind of the consumer and business bank you have a considerable amount more in deposits than you really have in loans which to me seems a little bit more skewed than what you would normally expect.
How do you strategically think you can utilize that balance sheet funding over time or what are some of the initiatives that you are doing because you should be able to penetrate that customer base with more lending?  That I think – yes we should be able to penetrate on more lending.
So that if you look on page 17 you can see the – 18 excuse me you can see the growth in card originations the growth in home equity originations which go on a balance sheet as Bruce talked about early would put about I’d say half broadly stated of the originations and mortgages are going on the balance sheet.
And in the business banking segment which is a small part of our commercial banking segment here to – $50 million on the revenue companies we are actually starting to see net loan growth the first time and a lot of times as it been up for non-core portfolios and so that’s the core opportunity in the franchise as it continued to originate credit to the core customer base and there is lots of opportunities there but you can see us making progress against each quarter.
I think on a broader context you got to think about these businesses and how they mix together.
So in every company’s retail business it’s an excess deposit generator just by the very nature of it and not only as it fund alone for the consumer customers but also provides the funding for the rest of the franchise.
So I think we have to keep that broader context and that’s why we invest going to your first question on mortgages and securities to – lack of better term get the value out of those deposits for the shareholders.
The other point that I just want to mention is that historically if you look at the front-end lending in consumer real estate that we’ve done from a segment perspective that that consumer real estate lending on a first mortgage basis it shows up in the balance sheet and all other.
So you should – you can assume that those deposits that you see within page nine a lot of the loans that they do for our customers are reflected in the all other segments.
And then in the mortgage segment the CRES you are still if you take out the litigation generating about a $700 million negative loss in the sense of your just pre-tax pre-prevision of between the revenues and expenses.
You are talking about bringing down the Legacy Assets &amp; Servicing expenses.
But what is the timetable in your mind that would be reasonable to think of closing that $700 million gap?  A couple of things the first is within consumer real estate services if we look at the home loans business on the front-end we talked about how we saw during the quarter that we increased both front-end originations as well as took down expense.
So Q1 to Q2 we saw about a $100 million improvement on the front-end of the business that’s reflecting the consumer real estate services.
And as it relates to the $700 million number that you quoted we obviously relative to the guidance have $300 million of expense to get out of that business over the next 90 days and then as we’ve talked about earlier on the call we’ve got work to do to continue to drive that down significantly in both 2015 and the first part of 2016 and that’s clearly one of the highest priorities we have within the company.
And just lastly and thanks for letting me ask you a few questions.
As if you are looking at valuation of your servicing portfolio it dropped off to 82 basis points this quarter which seems relatively low as the duration of that portfolio is extending.
I know interest rates came back.
So the models force you to write it back down.
But when you're looking at the prepayment speeds and the refinancing behavior it seems like eventually that there is some value as that portfolio lasts a lot longer than the model assumes at this point.
Well I think your point the value and the fact that on a basis point basis the came down was reflective of the lower rates that we saw at the end of the second quarter relative to the end of the first quarter and you are right at a point in time when rates start to move out you would expect that MSR to extend and for there to be value there but we do not – I want to emphasize that we look to manage the MSR risk as part of the overall strategy and are mangling that to have it be a plat book.
While from an interest rate standpoint I understand that this seems like the models have assumed a lot faster prepayments than we’ve really actually experience which eventually has to true up?  At the end of the day it comes down to what the customer does here exactly right.
All right thanks.
And we’ll go next to Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
The questions have been asked and answered.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Matt.
And we’ll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi a couple follow-ups.
First on the deposit betas I appreciate you giving us the color for every 100 basis point increase it would help by $3.4 billion.
You describe the deposit base.
But what is the actual deposit beta that you use to come up with the $3.4 billion benefit?  We did not quote Mike the actual deposit data.
We obviously go back and look at historical data.
Our assumption is as it relates to pass through rates as far as how much of the first 100 basis points that has to get passes along we are in the 40% area with respect to that.
Okay 40% for the first 100?  Correct.
All right.
So I think that's in the ballpark of one of your large peers but below some others.
And is the reason that would be below others just because it's a lot of branch-based deposits?  You are exactly correct and if we go back and look at what it’s been throughout time at points where arguably we don’t have the competitive position now we look at a lot of historical data to come up with that number.
As it relates to expenses you've achieved 90% of the $8 billion New BAC savings.
I see the branches are 5023 and I think you said you wanted to be around 5 000 branches.
And so if I heard you right I think you're going from a period of rightsizing to growth.
Is that a fair characterization?  Yes we’ve been growing underlying activity.
If you look at some statistics in the back things were up Mike but you are right the – if you go back a couple years ago we started New BAC we were running $59 billion of core expenses now run at $13 billion.
And so we are largely getting there and then question then is now how do you hold at there in the economic and environment which is lower growth and traditionally expected in the United States and that’s been – this vigilance on our part.
But during the whole time period we’ve invested literally thousands and thousands of people into the sales side and start to try that growth and we’ll continue to do that.
The question is how do you balance that investment grade.
And I’d just Mike before – I assume the – achieving the balance of the $2 billion in quarterly New BAC savings in the fourth quarter is not dependent on future branch sales.
So I just want to make sure that there is not an assumed linkage there.
And are you reallocating some of the people assigned to New BAC to other areas? It seems like you could dismantle that project group so to speak?  It’s not a big project I mean this is done by the people run the businesses with just committed plans that we did this wasn’t – it’s not a huge project group to actually accomplish.
It’s done by who have to run each business each function.
Okay as it relates to loan pay-downs Bruce you mentioned that some bank loans declined as customers went to the capital markets.
In a way a type of disintermediation from the bank.
But can you elaborate on that? Are you still seeing that this quarter? Do you think that was a one-off event or is that something we should watch out for?  Our sense is from what we saw during the quarter it was more a one-off event.
There were a couple of loans that were for acquisition-related purposes that people then went out and refinanced.
So that was just a little bit of an anomaly that we saw in the second quarter and if you look at just the attractiveness that the capital markets have been you would expect that to largely be over.
But every now and then when you deal with large multinational companies where some of the loan holds are little bit higher.
You can have those one-time events where that happens and we had a little bit of that in the second quarter.
It’s not something we would expect to recur.
What I'm getting to is do you guys think this is an inflection point for loan growth? I can find one of your large peers who implied that it is; and I can find a large regional bank who says it's not.
Where do you fall out on the spectrum? You said Brian that middle-market utilization was up ever so slightly can you just give us that utilization number and where you stand?  Bruce gave it early but I have to do again.
Sure.
The middle market utilization rate was kind of 37 plus percent at the end of the first quarter and was up about almost 1% to mid 38% which I don’t think in and of itself is not material but it does seem that that people are a little bit more willing to access the revolving credits.
At the same time practically speaking you are not going to tend to see loan growth that’s dramatically higher than the rate at which the overall economy is growing.
So we clearly as Brian Alluded to in his opening comments we did see an economy that improved in the second quarter relative to the first quarter and on the commercial side our loan growth is going to tend to mere or be a little bit above what we seen in the macro economy.
So do you think this is an inflection point for loan growth? Or is that an answer you would rather not delve into?  We’ve seen – we are seeing signs of improvement I am not sure I’d go as far as saying it’s an inflection point.
Okay at the Annual Meeting the clock ran out on me before I could ask one question a very simple what are your financial targets with and without higher interest rates?  We’ve been pretty consistent if we go back I believe Mike – the third and fourth quarter earnings call that as we look out to and as we look at and embed in our models of 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve that we are looking at that point with a tangible common equity ratio of 7% and return on asset of 1% to be at a 14% return on tangible common equity.
As you get into the – you don’t see that rate environment until 2016 and if you look at those metrics and back out what we’ve said a 100 basis points is worth to us on a parallel shift you get a sense for what we need to get to ex the 100 basis point move.
I'm sorry.
So without the 100 basis point shift the target for ROA and ROTCE is what?  That’s going to be roughly $3.3 billion or $3.4 billion pre-tax and at $0.63 it’s $2 billion less which on roughly $140 billion on tangible common equity is going to be about 20 basis points less on assets at that point.
Okay.
And then last question as it relates to Citigroup's settlement with the DOJ for MBS securitizations and CDOs you had quite a bit more in MBS securitizations and CDO structuring; and so how can we think about this number and the amount of reserves that you have I read one press article that you were willing to offer $12 billion and the DOJ wanted $17 billion.
I know you can't go into too much detail on this.
But can you just give us a framework for how you view resolving this? I mean on the one hand you could argue maybe you shouldn't pay hardly anything because you bought a lot of these entities that created these deals and you are just punishing the new shareholders.
And on the other hand if you say that you had ten times the level of some of this MBS activity it could be a huge number.
So how should we think about that?  As we said Mike I think we can’t discuss that and you get a rendition of all the different criteria that people written about.
I think this quarter we are able to put away the AIG case which if you remember was back in 2011 lot of the people said it was worth a lot more money for $650 million.
So we will continue to figure out where we get behind us a reasonable cost for our shareholders.
We just can’t talk about details on this.
All right well good job with the AIG.
I was one of those people who thought it was going to be more and it wasn't.
But that's fine.
I will take any guidance I can get on the legal costs ahead.
Thanks a lot.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll take our last question from David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton please go ahead.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just on the AIG settlement I actually thought AIG was the only remaining objector are there others?  There are several other objectors that had not been as vocal and as I said we’ll have to see where it goes with that dropping out.
And AIG has agreed to dismiss all its claims or its objections I should say? Okay great.
That’s correct it’s part of the settlement agreement.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Great super.
Well I think we are through all the questions.
So thanks a lot for joining us and we look forward to talking next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to today’s program.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this call is being recorded and I will be standing by should you need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for our third quarter results.
Hopefully you’ve had a chance to review the earnings release documents available on our website.
Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements today.
For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents our website or our other SEC filings.
So with that let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan our CEO for some opening comments before Bruce goes through the details.
Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review our third quarter results.
As you know our bottom-line results were heavily impacted by previously announced settlement with Department of Justice.
But given that I’m still encouraged by what we accomplished this quarter.
Our business has generated enough earnings to absorb the $5.3 billion charge and still reported positive net income before preferred dividends.
Now the themes that we see are consistent with the past several quarters.
You can see in our numbers a prudent balance sheet management; you can see in the numbers good core expense control; you can see in the numbers continued credit improvement and you can see in the numbers solid business activity.
Before Bruce takes you through the detail of the quarter I thought I’d focus quickly on the profitability of our business segments and some of the key statistics that give rise thereto.
If you look we’ve included in the appendix the materials on pages 18 and 20 some information about net income PPNR and business statistics.
So you step back and look you can see from our release the company reported $2.9 billion in year-to-date pretax net income that includes and overcomes 15.6 billion in pretax litigation costs to resolve primarily legacy mortgage issues.
Now we’re not suggesting that we want to incur litigation cost going forward but what this demonstrates is how much progress we’ve made behind the noise of significant legal settlements.
So you step back and think about the businesses you can see on appendix slide 18 a graphic showing year-to-date net income comparative performance by the businesses.
Let’s first focus on our Consumer and Business Banking segment.
Year-to-date net income was $5.3 billion in 2014.
That compares to $4.6 billion after tax in 2013.
The return on average allocated capital in Consumer &amp; Business Banking was 24%.
It is our largest business and it’s had a good year.
Our Global Wealth and Investment Management business had net income of year-to-date of $2.3 billion in 2014 that’s up 3% from 2013.
Now this business our GWIM business has a pretax margin of 26% and has returns on allocated capital of 25%.
As we move to our Global Banking business that’s the business provides lending treasury services investment banking activities to middle markets and large corporate clients around the world.
That business earned $4 billion after tax so far this year up 8% from 2013 and generated returns on allocated capital of 17%.
Those three businesses together have great annuity streams and hold us in good state as we look forward.
Our Global Markets business which obviously is more affected by what’s going on in the market on the given quarter has earned $2.9 billion after tax this year and for the first nine months versus $2.7 billion in 2013 when you adjust for DVA and in 2013 you exclude the UK tax changes.
So in total these four businesses generated $14.5 billion net income after-tax for the first nine months of 2014.
That $14.5 billion is up 10% from last year.
You can look on slide 19 and you can see on a pretax pre-provision basis which some of you also focus on we are 4% year-over-year.
And you can see on pages 20 and 21 the business statistics over the last couple of years which give rise to these results.
We’ve made real progress in the four businesses and we continue to work on the Consumer Real Estate segment and losses therein.
But that real progress shows in the operating leverage profitability of these businesses and we expect that momentum to continue as we move the other side of the mortgage issues.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
This quarter does reflect what we believe is very solid execution and a lot of what we’ve been consistently talking with all of you about.
We maintained a strong balance sheet as a foundation to operate from.
We continued to rationalize our balance sheet for liquidity profitability as well as evolving regulatory changes.
Our revenue has shown relative stability and our non-litigation expenses continue to be reduced.
Charge-offs have continued to come down and we resolved significant legacy mortgage exposures during the quarter.
Let's start on slide two and go through the details.
We recorded a $168 million of earnings in the third quarter and after preferred dividends that resulted in a loss of a penny per share.
Earnings included the $5.3 billion pretax income -- or pretax impact excuse me of the settlement with the Department of Justice in various state attorneys general that we announced in August.
On an EPS basis the impact was $0.43 a share as a portion this charge was not tax deductable.
As you can see on the right hand side of slide two the $5.3 billion impact was split between $4.9 billion in litigation expense and $400 million in provision expense that relate to additional reserves that are associated with a consumer relief portion of this settlement.
Revenue during the quarter on an FTE basis was $21.4 billion versus $21.7 billion in the year ago quarter.
If we exclude the DVA impact from both periods as well as the $1.2 billion of equity investment income that we recorded during the third quarter of ‘13 that was driven by gains from our CCB investment adjusted revenue of $21.2 billion was up slightly from the third quarter of 2013.
On a segment view revenue was stable to modestly up in four of our five businesses from last year with CRES being the exception.
Relative to the second quarter of 2014 revenue was 3% lower driven by the lack of equity investment gains seasonally lower investment banking fees and lower mortgage banking revenue.
Total non-interest expense was $19.7 billion which included $5.6 billion in total litigation expense.
We back out litigation expense; compared to the second quarter of 2014 expenses declined roughly $400 million from both our New BAC and our ALS cost initiatives as well as lower revenue related incentives.
On the same basis looking back to the third quarter of 2013 expenses improved by $1.1 billion or 7% which were driven by reduced LAS costs and to a lesser degree our New BAC cost savings.
Provision for credit losses during the quarter was $636 million and included $400 million as I mentioned for the DoJ Settlement while our net charge-offs were $1 billion.
Our results during the quarter did benefit from roughly $200 million in DVA or about a penny per share as our debt spread widened during the end of the quarter.
There was also approximately $0.04 of benefit to earnings that relate to certain discrete tax items.
Lastly the quarter also benefited by about a penny as our weighted average share count excluded the impact of diluted shares given the financial performance.
On slide three we show you all the usual balance sheet highlights that we do each quarter but we did want to focus you specifically on our efforts to rationalize the balance sheet as our actions led to a $47 billion decrease from the second quarter of 2014.
We took prudent actions to increase liquidity as well as to reduce both credit and market risk.
We shifted the mix of some of our discretionary assets out of less liquid loans into more liquid debt securities.
For example we converted 6.5 billion of residential mortgage loans that benefited from standby insurance agreements into agency securities.
We also sold $2.5 billion of non-performing and delinquent loans during the quarter and had $4 billion of net pay downs in our legacy consumer real estate loans.
We reduced our global markets balance sheet and associated funding by $11.7 billion from the second quarter of ‘14 and that included low margin prime brokerage loans of approximately $3.3 billion.
Our decline in quarter end deposits was primarily driven by optimization efforts that included the reduction of approximately 15 billion of deposits that had little to no benefit to our LCR ratio.
From a capital perspective I'll remind you that we did issue 3.1 billion of preferred stock during the quarter that improved our Basel III Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio.
And lastly as a reminder we increased our quarterly common dividend to $0.05 a share during the quarter.
We move to slide four where we show our capital ratios under Basel III.
Under the transition rules our CET1 ratio was stable at 12%.
If we look at our Basel III regulatory capital ratios on a fully phased-in basis you can see CET1 capital declined 1.6 billion that was driven by a $1 billion decline in OCI.
Our operational risk weighted assets did increase that negatively impacted our advanced levels but not the standard levels.
Other RWA balance sheet improvements benefited both approaches and that partially offset the increase in RWA under the advanced approach.
If we look at the ratios under the standardized approach CET1 improved slightly to 9.6% during the third quarter of ‘14 and under the advanced approach the CET1 ratio was also at 9.6% both well above our 8.5% 2019 proposed minimum requirements.
If you look at our operational risk risk weighted assets under the advanced approach; they now represent approximately 30% of our overall risk weighted assets.
We move to supplementary leverage.
This is the first quarter that we've actually disclosed the actual ratios from a supplementary leverage perspective.
The bank holding company during the third quarter was at 5.5%.
And if we look at our primary banking subsidiary BANA its ratio was 6.8% which is pro forma for September 30th as we merged FIA our card services unit into BANA on October 1st.
We’re obviously very pleased with the capital and supplementary leverage ratios in the context of the resolution of the DoJ matter during the quarter.
We turn to slide five feel very good about the work that the funding team did during the quarter.
In addition to the $3.1 million of preferred stock issuance we issued 3 billion of Tier 2 subordinated debt which also adds to our total capital metrics.
Lastly we issued $4.5 billion of straight debt at the parent.
Our goal is not only to build the Basel III non-CET1 component of the capital stack that we thought or levels that were appropriate but also to build liquidity in advance of the payments that we’ll make during the month of October for the DoJ and state AG settlement.
Total long-term debt for the quarter ended at $250 billion which was down $7 billion from the end of the second quarter 2014.
We look at the cost of our debt; our long-term debt yields improved 10 basis points from the second quarter of ‘14 due primarily to maturities of higher yielding debt as well as issuances at more favorable levels.
Global access liquidity sources remained very strong at 429 billion and our time to required funding was stable at 38 months.
We turn to slide six; net interest income on a reported FTE basis was 10.4 billion up from the second quarter of ‘14 as we had a less negative impact from market related adjustments and that was coupled with modest improvement in our adjusted net interest income.
The market related adjustments during the quarter were a negative $55 million in the third quarter of ‘14 that compares to a negative $175 million in the second quarter of ‘14.
Net interest income of $10.5 billion excluding the market related adjustment improved modestly as lower long-term debt balances and yield as well as an extra day of interest accruals were partially offset by lower loan balances as well as lower loan yields.
The net interest yield improved 4 basis points on an adjusted basis and 7 basis points on an actual basis.
We continue to remain positioned to benefit as interest rates move higher particularly from the short end of the curve.
Since we’re largely done at this point with our debt footprint reductions the direction as well as the trajectory of our net interest income and net interest yield will be more dependent on rates as well as balance sheet movements going forward.
And given the volatility of the rates should the opportunity present itself we could decide to take actions to reduce OCI risk in preparation for what we will be in an eventual rising rate environment.
Those actions could have a relatively small near term impact to net interest income but reduced our duration risk as well as to provide additional liquidity to reinvest in a higher rate environment.
Non-interest expense on slide seven was $19.7 billion in the third quarter of ‘14 and included $5.6 billion of litigation expense.
As I previously mentioned $4.9 million of the expense related to the DoJ Settlement while the remainder was associated with the number of smaller pre-existing cases one of which caused us to book approximately $200 million in our Global Markets business.
We exclude litigation; total expenses were $14.2 billion this quarter which declined $400 million from the second quarter of 2014 on both our New BAC as well as our LAS initiatives as well as lower revenue related incentive cost.
Compared to the third quarter of ‘13 expenses are $1.1 billion lower driven by LAS cost savings.
Our legacy assets and servicing cost once again ex-litigation reduced by approximately a $100 million in the quarter and remained on track to hit $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2015.
In the third quarter we’ve now reached our new BAC savings initiatives with the targeted goal of $2 billion a quarter or $8 billion on an annualized basis.
So as we move forward we believe that expenses apart from litigation as well as the continued reductions in legacy assets and servicing expenses should move more directionally with the revenue streams that we see in the businesses.
Asset quality on slide eight you can see credit quality continued to improve.
Net charge-offs declined slightly from the second quarter of ‘14 to $1 million or a 46 basis-point net loss ratio a new decade low.
NPL sales which I mentioned produced modest recovery in both the second quarter of ‘14 as well as the third quarter of ‘14.
And if we normalize for those benefits net charge-offs would have been $1.3 billion in the second quarter of '14 and $1.2 billion in the third quarter of '14 with the third quarter being about 8% lower.
Delinquencies a leading indicator of net charge-offs remained very low.
Our third quarter provision expense was 636 million and we released 407 million of reserves given the continued pace of asset quality improvement.
If we exclude the reserve that was associated with the DOJ Settlement we released 807 million from our reserves.
Let's now focus on the businesses starting on slide nine with Consumer &amp; Business Banking.
Results again this quarter showed year-over-year improvement as our net income grew 4% to 1.9 billion and increased 3% from the second quarter of 2014.
This business generated 25% return on allocated capital during the third quarter.
Revenue was relatively stable at 7.5 billion compared to the third quarter of '13 and up from the second quarter of '14 led by higher card income and service charges for both comparative periods.
As you can see on the slide Q3 provision expense was lower than the third quarter of ‘13 as net charge-offs improved and we also released less reserves.
Expenses of 4 billion were stable compared to both periods as the benefits from our net book delivery optimization were offset by investments that we made in our special sales force.
With regard to the special sales force over the course of the last year we've added nearly 500 financial solutions advisors and small business bankers.
Growth in mobile as well as other self-service customer touch points has allowed us to continue to reduce our banking centers where we went below 5 000 units during the quarter while at the same time our customer satisfaction scores continued to improve and customer activity continues to build.
We look at customer activity during the quarter.
We had good deposit growth and our rates paid remained very low.
We experienced modest improvement in average loans on a linked quarter basis driven by activities that we saw within the U.S.
consumer credit card business.
Brokerage assets were up 21% year-over-year as we benefited from both improved account flows and market valuation.
Our mobile banking customers reached over 16 million during the quarter and 11% of all of our customer deposit transactions are now done through mobile devices.
Card issuance remained strong at 1.2 million new accounts in the third quarter of ‘14 with 64% of those cards going to existing customers of our company.
And lastly credit quality continued to improve as our U.S.
credit card loss rate fell below 3% and where we continue to see north of a 9% risk adjusted margin.
If we moved to consumer real estate services; as I mentioned the loss in the quarter was driven by the DOJ settlement which impacted expense provision as well as income tax.
Revenue was down about $300 million from the second quarter of 2014.
The servicing income component of revenue was driven by an approximate $100 million charge to adjust our MSR for cost of service assumptions.
And a smaller amount in our level of servicing assets did decline.
Our production revenue decline was driven by approximate $80 million increase in rep and warrant expense.
First mortgage retail origination of $11.7 billion were up 6% from the second quarter of 2014.
If we look at the pipeline at the end of the quarter our first-lien origination pipeline was down 12% from the second quarter of 2014.
On the home equity front we continue to see very good demand where originations during the quarter were $3.2 million which were up nicely on both the linked quarter and a year-over-year basis.
Expenses once again included $5.3 billion of litigation costs during the quarter versus $3.8 billion in the second quarter of 2014.
If we exclude that $1.5 billion increase in litigation cost expenses declined a $117 million.
Our LAS expense for the quarter was just over $1.3 billion and once again remains on track to hit $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2015.
Our number of 60 plus day delinquent loans of $221 000 that are serviced by LAS dropped $42 000 or 16% from the end of the second quarter of ‘14.
In addition we continue to reduce our production staffing levels in line with the market opportunity as we continue to lower our fulfillment cost.
On slide 11 global wealth and investment management delivered another strong quarter where we saw both record revenues as well as record earnings.
Pre-tax margins remained strong north of 25% for the 7th consecutive quarter.
Record asset management fees drove revenue higher but were offset by some softness in transactional activity although I do want to mention that we did see transactional activity pickup during the month of September.
Net income of $830 million was up 12% on a linked quarter basis as the business continues to focus on operating leverage and drop the revenue growth to the bottom-line.
We increased the number of financial advisors and year-to-date the retention of our more experienced advisors remains at record levels.
Client balances were nearly $2.5 trillion with negative market valuation mostly offset by positive flows that we saw during the quarter.
Long-term AUM flows were $11.2 billion during the quarter the 21st consecutive quarter of positive flows.
Ending client loan balances also increased to a record level from the second quarter of ‘14 as we see good activity in both securities-based and residential mortgage lending.
And return on allocated capital in this segment was 27% during the quarter.
If you turn to slide 12 global banking earnings were $1.4 billion which is up 24% from the third quarter of ‘13 on both on lower credit cost and to a lesser degree higher revenue.
Compared to the second quarter of ‘14 earnings were up on lower credit costs which were slightly offset by seasonally lower investment banking fees.
Return on allocated capital during the quarter was strong at 18%.
Within the revenue line item investment banking fees for the company this quarter were $1.4 billion which is up 4% from the year ago quarter but down seasonally from the second quarter of 2014.
Our overall investment banking pipeline does remained very strong but I do want to note that our fourth quarter of ‘13 was a record quarter from an investment banking fee perspective.
Provision during the quarter was a slight benefit which reflected continued low loss rates and a small reserve release.
If we look at the balance sheet average loans were $267 billion which is up 3% compared to the year ago period but which has slowed over the past couple of quarters as we continue to focus on client profitability.
We've also seen some significant prepayments from some of our larger corporate banking clients during the last couple of quarters.
Although our average deposits during the quarter did increase our end of period balances declined.
And that's due as I mentioned earlier that we intentionally managed down certain deposits which have a little LCR benefit.
If we move to Global Markets on slide 13 we earned $769 million during the third quarter of 2014.
To put the third quarter of ‘14 on a like basis to the third quarter of ‘13 you should exclude a $1.1 billion impact from the UK tax rate change that we saw in the third quarter of ‘13 as well as the impact of DVA for both periods.
Once again DVA this quarter was a benefit of $205 million versus a decrement of $444 million last year.
If we make those adjustments we saw very strong growth in earnings of 21% on a year-over-year basis.
Earnings are down from the second quarter of ‘14 as a result of the typical seasonal declines in sales and trading as well as higher litigation expense during the third quarter of ‘14 within this segment.
If we back out DVA revenue is up 7% from the year ago period driven by strong sales and trading results.
We're pleased to report both FICC and equity sales and trading revenues were up versus the year ago period.
FICC revenues were up 11%.
The improvement was driven by results and currencies given the increased volatility that we saw during the month of September as well as improved performance in both our mortgages and our commodities areas.
Equity sales and trading was up as well up 6% from the third quarter of ‘13 driven by a higher client financing revenues.
On the expense front they were up 2% year-over-year driven by higher revenue-related incentives.
Relative to the second quarter expenses were up $70 million from the second quarter due to higher litigation expense.
If we back out the $200 million litigation expense during the quarter expenses declined by about $130 million in line with the lower revenue levels on a linked quarter basis.
Average trading-related assets were down about $13 billion from the second quarter of ‘14 and our overall bar remains very low.
Return on allocated capital during the quarter was 9%.
On slide 14 we show all other.
Our non-interest revenue during the quarter was down on a year-over-year basis as we had $1.1 billion of equity investment gains in the third quarter of ‘13 and during the third quarter of ‘14 we had a $300 million charge for UK payment protection insurance.
Expenses on a year-over-year basis are down about $400 million due to lower litigation expense and all other as well as lower personnel costs.
Income tax expense is included within all other is the benefit related to discrete items that I mentioned earlier are largely reflected in this segment.
As we look at the fourth quarter of this year we'd expect the tax rate to be roughly 31% absent any unusual items during the quarter.
So before we open it up for questions I'd like to summarize the quarter.
We feel we made once again very good progress during the quarter.
We saw good business activity across the customer footprint.
This led to year-over-year earnings improvements in four out of the five businesses.
And then in our mortgage business we're taking cost out of the legacy assets and servicing side and have taken cost out of the fulfillment side as well.
We generated enough earnings during the quarter from the businesses to offset a significant charge to settle our RMBS issues with the DOJ and RMBS working group.
And at the same time maintain a very strong capital position.
Asset quality continued its trend of improvement.
And we did take some delivered balance sheet actions to improve liquidity manage OCI risk and reduce both credit and market risk.
And we'll go ahead now and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll go first to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Betsy.
So just wanted to touch on a couple of things that you mentioned during your prepared remarks here; one is on the NII actions that you were talking about you might take with the securities portfolio as a way to protect OCI.
But it might have a hit on the top-line when you do that.
Could you just talk through what kind of size you're thinking about and what the triggers for that action might be? Sure.
A couple of things Betsy I think the first thing is if you look at the balance sheet from the second quarter to the third quarter and you look at the securities portfolio you can see that group see the entire increase in the securities portfolio related to treasury securities that tend to have a maturity in the 4 to 5 year life perspective as opposed to longer dated agencies securities.
The second thing that I mentioned is just in references what we would look to do with respect to our buy ticket during the fourth quarter.
And I think at this point we’re being very cautious looking at that buy ticket given the overall rate environment that we see that’s 30 to 35 basis points lower than what we saw during the second quarter of 2014.
And there is also a little bit of relative spot risk that you have as we look out.
And I’d say if we aggregate those two items and put it in a context of NII risk for the quarter those two items could be roughly a $100 million of risk relative to what we saw during the second quarter excuse me during the third quarter.
Okay.
And then obviously a question that a lot of people have is the current rate environment and what that impact is.
So this is in addition to the typical negative impact on NII from the long end of the curve I would assume? The $100 million risk that I referenced is relative to the actual net interest income in the third quarter once we back out for market related items.
Got it got it.
Okay.
And then the other comment was on expenses where you indicated that you are obviously done with New BAC which is fantastic and LAS is on track.
So outside of the LAS expense reductions more directionally expenses would move in line with revenue.
Could you give us a sense as to what you think you could do on expenses in the event that the long end of the curve stays where it is right now hovering at like $2.01? Sure.
And I think that there is negative standpoint too Betsy if you look out what we’ve done if you look at the number of FTEs that we have which tends to drive a lot of the expense were down 7% year-over-year and down 2% on a linked quarter basis.
And you see the flow through of those benefits through a number of line items.
The most important things to look at is if you go to our supplemental materials and flip to page four we show you 9 different expense items.
And if you look at those line items and exclude the other category which include litigation expense all these lines items are down both on a linked quarter and a year-over-year basis.
So as we continue to be efficient and continue to manage down overall headcount as a result of the various programs we've talked about as well as just generally you continue to see grind down expenses across all categories across the company.
And Betsy just to put in a broader perspective how would you manage the company if the low rate environment continues is a lot like we've been managing and now continuing to be careful in every expense item every headcount but at the same time investing in the business.
And so if you think over the last year we've added small business bankers and financial service advisors the people work in the branches for Merrill Lynch and the Merrill Lynch teams.
We've added sales mortgage officers in the retail segment while we reduced the overall numbers.
And so we've been able to accomplish the reduction expenses but at the same time we're making the investments $3.5 billion in technology last year and probably 3.3 or so this year.
So we'll continue to make those investments.
So that means that the new BAC implement helps offset any kinds or sort of inflationary growth you get in and on top of that we continue to work on initiatives continue to simplify the company and eliminate non-core products et cetera to continue to keep the expenses where they are.
So just to rephrase you still have expense reduction coming through from the work that you've done so far; you're just not going to name it something new?  No we were just going to -- we were just doing a daily work that we need to do.
And remember we're offsetting all the inflation and healthcare costs and wages and everything that goes on in normal days but we even made the raw reduction and talk about now this business is usual good work.
Okay super.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much.
On slide 8 is this tiny uptick in consumer 30 day past due.
It's a small number but it's the first time I've seen it go up in a long time.
Credit outlook is great.
Just curious if that denotes like a bottoming and what you're seeing.
And then in conjunction with that how you feel about your -- what appears to be very large loan allowance as a percentage of charge-offs? Sure.
Now we went back and notice the same thing Glenn there are few item that were 10s 20s and 30s that rounded but as we go out and look at as we’ve freshened up and look forward I would say that the forward look on credit as we look forward relative to when we looked at it last quarter we do continue to see continued improvement albeit at a slower pace from a charge-off perspective once you adjust for the non-performing loan sales.
That's good; that's comforting.
You mentioned the $3 billion of sub debt that you issued during the quarter.
Just curious if there is any thought process of is that getting ahead of OLA and do you feel that there is going to be a sub debt component? Is that just you being cautious and having some diversification in the debt structure? I think as we look out and as you look to fill up the various non-CET1 bucket you can see that we obviously had the Buffet Series T in May and we've issued about $4.6 billion to get over largely filled up on the preferred bucket and the sub debt issue of $3 billion was relative to approximately $5 billion to fill up that bucket from an overall capital perspective.
And at this point I would say from an OLA perspective we continue to read what you do.
We feel like we've been very prudent in building up this significant debt stack at the parent.
And we'll just have to see where the regulation goes from here and we're obviously waiting to see exactly what that is.
Okay last one.
On mortgage just curious what percentage of current originations you're keeping on balance sheet and then related part two would be how much is the unfinished question around repurchase risk constraining any mortgage lending or is it really still a function of demand at this point? The first as it relates to the balance sheet I believe it was roughly two-thirds of the production from a first-lien perspective would have gone on the balance sheet during the quarter.
In terms of just origination quality we continue to focus as we have quite a long time here on originating high quality prime mortgages while still facilitating our duties to get customers credit for home purchases.
The originations continue to rise.
The purchase component obviously is rising too.
So we feel good about where we are and you can see that new purchase requests from the agencies have come down dramatically.
So we are not going to change the course because at the end of the day because we feel good about the credit quality we've taken.
We're taking on using for ourselves and for investor.
Okay.
Thanks both.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Two questions; first on governance can you just kind of talk through the reasoning on the Board's perspective to kind of change the chairmanship and with a lead director how you think that dynamic may change good or bad? And I guess secondly is this a vote of confidence in you Brian in terms of the leadership and current strategy? We have a strong Board team with various people of various skills and background and that diversity really helps us.
And so I think the Board’s decision that we put out few weeks ago and announcements made this is continued great governance can we make commitment to good governance Jack Bovender new director takes over from Chad Holliday who served as Chair for about 4.5 years and did great job for us and the Board is very committed to continue to have the strong governance especially in the high expectations from the regulators and enhanced supervisor prudential standards from the Fed.
And so we feel good about the governance but it’s the team effort and then how the Board works together.
And I think your points Chad maybe now in the announcement or that the Board feels very good about the option for the management team and this is part of their progression in that regard.
And does the Fed take part in reviewing this decision in anyway? It’s the Board’s decision but we console those regulations all the major decisions in the company.
But I think the key is how we operate as a Board and how we govern the company and I think it will be better for the shareholders as it has been.
Okay great.
And then second question on the balance sheet with the $47 billion reduction clearly it helps the LCR but can you give us a sense on how it benefited -- I'm sorry the SLR but can you give us a sense on how it might have improved your LCR number one and if there is any additional benefits beyond leverage that helps the stress test? A couple of questions the first thing as we focus on the deposit I wouldn't say it benefited LCR but what it enabled us to do was to continue to rationalize the balance sheet without hurting LCR.
That relates to the deposit optimization.
With respect to the mortgage loans the 6.5 billion that we’ve referenced where we converted mortgage loans into agency securities that's basically taking $6.5 billion of non-LCR benefit asset and converting them to $6.5 billion of LCR benefit.
So that would have been the one pick up of the activities that we mentioned as well as just the reinvestment of repayment of legacy loan proceeds into securities once again helps LCR.
So the actions with respect to build one under the key balance sheet benefited LCR the 15 billion of deposits just enable us to rationalize the overall size of balance sheet.
As it relates to CCAR and the actions that then are taken as we look to manage the company we continue to look to manage out the higher risk categories of loans.
And if you look at what we did in the second quarter with just over 2 billion of non-performing loan sales and $2.5 billion this quarter we would clearly expect that as you look at those from a CCAR perspective they would be higher loss content loans relative to the rest of the portfolio but the rational and the goal to move those out was to reduce the risk in a market environment that was very favorable.
And we feel good about those actions that we took.
So is it fair to assume that you guys are near at the 100% LCR threshold? And I guess secondarily should we expect balance sheet growth start -- loan deposit growth balance sheet start to pick up from here or you’ll have more to do?  So from an overall LCR perspective at the parent we’re at approximately 110% at the parent so we're well in excess of where we need to ultimately be in 2017.Within the bank levels we’re well above the 80% level and would look to drive that to be north of 100% during the first half of 2015 well in advance of the 2017 implementation.
And as it goes as we move forward and we look at the balance sheet the goal as we go forward and you saw a little bit it's interesting if you compare the loans in the three principal businesses where we make loans in the segments that we’ve laid out here and that would be in our consumer business in our wealth management business as well as in our global banking business that loans average loans within those segments are up about 2% on a year-over-year basis.
And we’re clearly very focused on looking to drive out and push out and grow loans.
We’re obviously focused on growing deposits with our core customers which will benefit LCR as well.
And I think as it relates to the overall size of the balance sheet we want to continue to be more efficient but I don't think you're going to see the magnitude to move in the balance sheet going forward that you saw during this quarter.
Okay great.
That's helpful thanks.
And we’ll go next to Jon McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bruce I wanted to follow-up on the NII outlook and the potential strategic actions.
Is the potential 100 million headwind on the core NII does that reflect the possible strategic actions or is that just reflecting the fact that reinvestment rates or the maturing capitals are lower today than they were in the second quarter? It would reflect two things Jon.
It's both the role to spot risk as well as the buy ticket during the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And this buy ticket or these kind of actions that you might take how might they impact your projections of rate sensitivity to rising short and long rates? Well to the extent that we don't reinvest in buildup cash it will increase our asset sensitivity and the benefit to rising rates when that occurs.
Okay.
So you're not talking about a major restructuring of the bond portfolio; it's just being patient in terms of investing I think I might have misunderstood the actions? Yes.
It should -- this is much more Jon I think just realizing what we've seen during the quarter and being cautious on buy ticket during the fourth quarter to manage net interest income risk with OCI risk.
But we're not talking about any kind of material shift; we're just flagging something for you to get into magnitude of the rate move that we've seen so far this quarter.
Got it.
Okay totally understood.
Thank you.
And Bruce just in terms of the FAS 91 or the premium amortization charges that move around with the 10 year is that pretty proportional to how the 10 year moves up and down or are there levels where it stops kind of being a straight-line impact? I would say that the -- it tends to move the FAS 91 moves most and it's most correlated to the 10 year.
And I would say that if you look at OCI risk it tends to be more correlated to long-term mortgage rates.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the provision just wondering how we should think about kind of jumping off point for the provision relative to the kind of $600 million reported or the $200 million ex-DOJ this quarter? How should we think about where to start off with that? Yes.
I think Jon I would look at the charge-offs adjusted for the portfolio sales that we said came down from 1.3 to 1.2 and assuming the overall economic environment doesn’t change.
We have continued to see improvements in the credit portfolios.
And I think practically speaking if you look at the reserve release during the quarter once you adjust for the DOJ amount of 400 that you’re not going to see reserve releases.
I think clearly they will be a fair bit below the $800 million that we would have seen this quarter on an adjusted basis.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on capital builds Bruce it seems like you're still able to grow the Tier 1 common at a multiple of the GAAP earnings.
Is that primarily as DTA and could you remind us what the status of the DTA balance is and how much is disallowed currently?  Sure.
The disallowed amount continues to be in the $15 billion to $16 billion criteria.
And as we look out between now and the end of 2015 we would expect to that the CET1 should build generally consistent with pre-tax earnings all the way through the end of 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Jon.
And we’ll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Were there any gains from the $2.5 billion of NPA sales? I believe between what came through in the charge-off line and the net I think the NPAs were roughly $150 million Mike.
$150 million gain? Correct.
Okay.
And as far as the outlook for rates have you changed your rate assumption for the next year given what the 10 year has done? We look at rate assumptions what we do is when we go through our internal forecasting process we snap and manage the business just based on the forward curve of what the market is telling us.
And clearly I think if we look out at and look at the rate movement that we've seen over the course of the last couple of weeks people are obviously more cautious if rates may not be moving up at the level that they had had but it's clearly been very volatile over the last 30 days.
And is that changing the way you're managing the portfolio or the company? In other words at what point do you look at the low rate environment and say our prior assumptions might have been off a little bit; we need to revise the approach? Well I think that as we look forward Mike and I think it's a little bit of why we said what we did about a little bit of caution during the fourth quarter that at this point as we look out and given the impact that OCI has the capital until we see where rates settle out if they continue to move around we continue to be very cautious with the buy ticket and when we do it we're investing clearly a little bit shorter than longer at this point given the risk that OCI has the capital and being mindful of that.
Sure.
No it's tough figuring out the rate environment right now.
I'm just revisiting the comment you made.
You said expenses should move more directionally with revenues.
And if I look at the first 9 months I guess revenues are down but expenses are down more.
Do you mean that instead of having positive operating leverage it might be flat operating leverage looking ahead?  I think there is couple of things Mike.
The first is that I want to make sure that we emphasize is that we still have a couple of $100 million of expenses to get out in the LAS area between now and the first quarter of 2015.
And clearly $1.1 million of LAS expenses that we’ve set to get too in the first quarter of '15 is not where we would expect to operate on a longer term basis and there is additional work that we need to do there.
The second area just broadly speaking that we highlighted that clearly we'd expect given what litigation expense that over time is going to come down.
And then the third thing and when I said directionally expenses moving with revenues is just if we look at some of the areas particularly within the wealth management area that we've seen there is a component of compensation and incentive it’s very clearly tied to revenues not unlike what you see within the global banking and the global market space.
Okay.
And then two questions for Brian or perhaps for you Bruce; and I know I asked this before.
But if rates do not go higher in 2015 what is Bank of America’s ROE target? I think if rates don’t go higher what you see in terms of earnings is what we're -- what we’ve got to drive to this quarter.
So Mike when you look at the charts Bruce showed you and I showed you can see that the core businesses burned several billion dollars after-tax this quarter and CRES business took it away; and as that comes down you'll see those earnings flow through.
We don't -- and so you can compute the ROE based on that.
But basically we're -- you can see on page 18 the net income levels across the businesses each quarter.
And our job is to take commercial real estate business which is you see for the year-to-date if you take to commercial real estate business which is loss money get that back to breakeven.
And that’s the work we will do in absence of rate rising; it’s not a lot different than it is right now.
And then lastly just following up from the other question relating to the separation of the CEO and the Chairman role when you can consult with regulators do they care one way or another if the CEO and Chair position is split? And there is several corporate governance experts who say that it's better to have those two roles split and others say it doesn't matter.
Do you know what the regulator view is on that because you're going from what some consider a preferred corporate governance approach putting the CEO and Chair role to now combining them? I think that what they have been cleared about in the published documents published by the OCC and their heightened standards their enhanced standards but recently in the Fed they care about the engagement of the board and the diversity of the board and the experience of the board and we have a good board and it's experienced and has all the diversity and credible challenge and all the words that are used to describe that.
And I'd see that's the core of the governance point that they make.
Alright.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
If I could just follow up on some of the capital commentary provided especially on the deck; it seems like there is a number of adjustments that were made this quarter or just quite after the quarter you consolidated the bank subs there is some increase in operational risk RWA.
You comment on OCI managing for that.
Just think kind of big picture on managing capital what's left and is there opportunity to bring down some of the off balance sheet exposures now that you have kind of more final roles on the SLR? Sure.
I think I would start and just reiterate as we look at capital on a go forward basis you basically have three items that are going to affect things.
The first is your level of profitability and I just want to reiterate that we would expect once again on a go forward basis to accrete capital on a pre-tax basis.
And the second is the impact that OCI has to those capital ratios we obviously saw during the quarter rates went up on the mortgage side I believe it was about 5 basis points during the quarter.
And there were some security gains as well and that was what was led to the change in the overall OCI.
And as I said before given the environment we’re in where rates are down about 30 basis points so far quarter-to-date that will have a benefit today to capital and we’re just mindful of reinvesting so that we don’t take on any greater OCI risk on a go forward basis.
As it relates to what we’re looking through and as you look at the overall risk-weighted asset work that’s been done I would say that clearly as we continue to work through the legacy home equity as well as the first mortgage portfolios that do not benefit from the stand-by agreement as we continue to work those assets down that should enable us to grow the core and still keep risk-weighted assets generally constant.
And I think more specific to your point the other two things are that we continue to look to work through and we have the run-off of some of the structured credit and other portfolios that we’re trying to accelerate that come off between now and 2017.
And then the last piece that we continue to work hard on and you saw it in the up risk that as we updated the models for the time series you do have the increase to risk-weighted assets.
And we’re working hard to get to where we need to be from that model perspective as we would hope in 2015 if we’re successful to go ahead and exit parallel run at that point.
Okay.
And then as you think about -- I guess the adjustment on the operational risk RWA side do you think that's about done or is it an ongoing process until you hopefully exit the parallel run? Yes.
I think it's obviously as others have noted it's an ongoing process.
I think the important thing is if you compare our operational risk number relative to our peers we're roughly 30%.
And if you do the math against the risk-weighted assets we're at the if not the top the upper-end of where others are from that.
But we obviously have work to do to get that finalized to be in a position to exit.
Okay.
And then just separately within the C&amp;I lending book you talked about pricing pressure as well as some pay downs but I guess specifically on the pricing pressure what are you seeing now versus a quarter or two ago when you were still trying to grow or growing the book in terms of not just the magnitude of pricing but what types of products? Sure.
I would say that the most competitive area that we continue to see is within the commercial banking space of our Global Banking segment which are those middle market type companies that tend to be loans that have one or two banks provide all of the credit.
And clearly the remaining services that go along with servicing those customers tends to go to those that provide the credit.
And that's where you've seen the most competition.
I think it's interesting if you look at and go back to our table on the international side as we've continued to shape the balance sheet and look for a return you've actually seen a step-up in the yield in our international lending activity.
And within the large corporate space of our Global Banking space we have seen some stability in yields within that.
So and really focused most importantly it's within the commercial the middle market commercial space where we're seeing the most pressure on yields.
So just to add a little color there our view was along two dimensions.
One on the international side we had strong loan growth a couple of years ago in the last year.
And now we have to materialize our structured management and other revenue streams under increasing our credit exposure and Tom and the team growing the business.
So there is sort of -- with growth of loans that there has to be a fall through of growth of transaction revenue et cetera.
And on the middle market I think the team went for optimization and we are going to continue to stress if they needed to be able to manage both the optimization and the growth of the portfolio.
So we're pushing on them they get the balance probably back a little bit more in SKUs than they had in the last couple of quarters.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning this is Guy.
A question on first of all the optimization that you talked about with respect to commercial deposits around $15 billion and the -- I think roughly $12 billion in securities financing transactions.
Should we look at those two things as directly related to each other? I think they’re related to each other that we think it's prudent balance sheet management.
But there are independent actions that are part of prudent balance sheet management.
So Guy it's dramatically but not necessary directly.
Okay.
So the $15 billion isn't all essentially prime brokerage-related as well like the asset reduction that you are talking about? No it's not.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Another question is with respect to the provision related to the DOJ settlement.
Should we look at this $400 million which as you said offset what would have been an $800 million reserve release? Should we look at that as essentially now a one-time true up and going forward you now feel that you have the provision that you’ll need for multiple years to fulfill the settlement terms or is the settlement going essentially be a pay as you go through the provision? So to be clear when we set out the $5 billion reserve or the $5.3 billion hit this quarter that was to cover cash payments as well as all expected cost associated with implementing our $7 billion of consumer release.
And the part of it that flows into the provision line item is $400 million that is a reserve to take care of the -- what would have been the P&amp;L impact from the modifications that would happen within the different loans that we're modifying.
So on a go forward basis assuming that we’ve got to set up the way that we do there should not be any future P&amp;L impact from DoJ.
The only impact that will be on the balance sheet is you see the reserve number come down as we implement the consumer relief programs.
Got it.
That's a very helpful explanation.
Thanks.
And finally cyber security issues obviously you were not the bank that’s been in the crosshairs here and yet I would imagine that this is something that has caused some consternation internally and some spending.
JP Morgan has talked about a $250 million budget for cyber security issues which is expected to double.
Can you give us a sense for what you are spending there and how you'd expected to increase? Obviously it’s the matter that we take very seriously from the Board engagement the talent that we have in the Board to help us with this all the way through management Cathy Bessant her team in tech and ops.
And we spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a year and it’s been growing.
And we expect to continue to grow; it’s the key to keep our customers and our teammates secure.
And we continue to work on it.
So this is nothing but hard work and we continue to work with both the law enforcement authorities various government agencies and among our industry through very straight moves and formal engagements to try to drive our competencies in industry up.
So we’re spending a lot of money on it several hundreds of millions of dollars and we expect that to continue to increase.
Thanks.
I actually do have one more if that’s all right and it’s with respect to the rep and warranty RPL which in the footnote you said it’s the same as it was last quarter at about $4 billion.
Can you update us on where you are with any lawsuits related to the non-country wide originations which are which add up to around $420 billion of UPB? So if you recall Guy what we’ve done and what we continue to refine each quarter is that as we continue to see rep and warrant claims there was a reserve setup back in the second quarter of 2011 a piece of it was for Gibbs &amp; Bruns.
There was a piece of it that was for bank issued rep and warrant and then there was a piece that was for third party.
And we obviously look at those reserves each quarter and adjust those reserves for the activity in those cases where we have enough activity to have our reserve.
We obviously have those into those areas that are still uncertain; we provide the range of possible laws.
And as you reference the range of possible loss with respect to rep and warrant activity continues to be up to $4 billion.
Okay so no movement there obviously this quarter?  That's correct.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to with Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys a quick one on loan growth.
So at first glance it looked kind of weak.
It seemed to be driven by consumer.
I just want to make sure I've got sort of the right adjustments here that I think you guys have laid out.
In mortgage $12.5 billion decline sequentially but should we be backing out the $2.5 billion of NPL sales and then the $6.5 billion of agency conversion from that decline so you know you get kind of like a normalized decline rate sequentially of more like $3.5 billion on the mortgage side?  Yes.
I think it's a good question.
So the decision to move the 6.5 loan to security forum was based on LCR.
It doesn't change the fact that when you move out but you still have the asset on the balance sheet.
So I think that $6.5 billion is a fair adjustment to make.
And I would agree that the $2.5 billion where we still have the non-performing loans and quite frankly there is not much left there to attack.
It's a fair adjustment which gets you to the $9 billion.
The other thing when you look at the loans that I do think is important is that from -- on the home equity side with those legacy home equity portfolios which we want to get repaid that repayments within those were roughly $3.5 billion which were greater than the funded amount that came on from a new home equity origination perspective.
So I come back to that within those more discretionary portfolios what's happening there is what we want to happen there that they’re repaying and we're converting them to more liquid instruments.
And as we look at actual business activity and how we're doing we'd focus you back within the segment.
And as we talked about within the consumer business where average loans were up a little bit linked quarter on a card basis where we saw very strong continued growth within the home equity space go back to the wealth management area where loans reached a record level.
And then I think we've already addressed the work that we need to do on the commercial front.
Sure sure.
And maybe if you could is it possible to give us an idea about the run-off portfolio what's left in that at this stage and what your guys’ expectations are for like a run-off headwind just so we can think about it for modeling purposes? Sure.
I think I would look at as you go forward given that we're not buying home loans from third-parties that you’re probably looking at a high single-digit continued reduction for the next couple of quarters with respect to home loans that we hold for others.
The second thing I'd say that you have is you've got roughly $3 billion a quarter in home equity pay-offs a portion of which will be mitigated by new originations but you are looking at roughly three there.
And then you have some other kind of less than a billion dollar type items.
But I think it's fair to say that as you go forward outside of what we think is core you’re probably looking at in the consumer businesses in the zip code of $10 billion to $12 billion that will go away and we’ll either have the ability to reinvest and make new loans or otherwise reinvest.
Okay.
And that's on a quarterly headwind basis? Correct.
Okay terrific.
And then thinking about wealth management could you breakdown the expansion in the margins there this quarter? How much of it came from reduced spending? I know you guys have been investing there and so maybe could you help us understand how much of a contributing factor that was here this quarter and how much investment is left to wind down here? I'm sorry when you reference margin margin in what area? Sorry wealth management and pre-tax? Yes.
If you look at it and you go through the different areas you tend to have 40% type payouts with respect to the revenue piece.
So when you look at the margin improvement of a couple of 100 basis points I would put it more in the context of just good core expense management.
I do think there was a little bit less litigation within the quarter that benefited us.
But it tends to be just across the board whether it be a little bit lower support cost a little bit lower licensing fee number or a little bit less litigation.
There was no one number that was particularly dominated in driving the margin.
And last quarter we had some start up cost for the Merrill one product that you can see has had strong success in terms of that AUM.
So that was sort of in the second quarter and now those expenses have to roll that out that comes back after.
Yes.
So that technology spent also rolled off too which probably helped right? Exactly.
If you remember last quarter we talked about it they had a decline it was because some of the stuff was going in in this quarter you saw it revert back to more where they have pretty consistently been over the last many quarters.
Cool cool.
All right I seem to remember that being somewhere in the ballpark of like $50 million to $100 million is that right? I think it was all in that much but whether it was all in that one quarter or not I don’t remember.
Okay.
So the decline from that might be less so? Yes.
Cool.
And then last one I know you guys have talked about here the repositioning that you guys want to take as far as AOCI risk and such.
When we think about the AOCI hit that you guys lay out versus other money centers in the interest rate shock it’s a little bit higher than where some of the other folks are.
And so hoping to maybe get a little bit of color on where the current duration is where you expect the duration to go based upon the actions that you take.
And then maybe help us also square the circle of understanding the larger AOCI hit and whether that’s a result of a barbelling with the portfolio or what? Sure.
First I just want to clear up that there is in the quarter the only comment with respect to the quarter we’re referencing is just to caution on the buy ticket given where interest rates are at this point during the quarter.
I think if you go back and you look at over the last couple of quarters it’s been a very consistent message and that we’ve said that we’re going to direct more of the buy ticket to shorter date and treasury.
And you can see that there has been a buildup of those treasuries over the course of the last three to four quarters.
So this quarter was a continuation to that and we were just calling out a note of caution given the rate environment.
I think as it relates to overall OCI sensitivity if you look at what we’ve typically said is in 100 basis points parallel move up in rates how long does it take back or take to earn back that OCI we’ve said consistently it’s been around three years it peaked at about three and half years and at the end of September it would have been less than three years.
So we have kind of on a consistent trend line continued to look to move down the overall OCI risk as it presents itself to capital.
Okay.
So is it right then to assume that duration on the AFS portfolio is a little under three years or is that not a correct interest?  No that's the period of time that it takes to earn it back.
You're looking at the overall -- I think the overall duration is going to be in the plus five years.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to with Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Just a question just on the trading business obviously you guys and the other companies did well amidst the volatility in September.
And I’m just wondering with regard to the balance sheet changes you guys have been making and the optimization of RWAs and given what’s happening in the environment right now any changes in terms of how Tom’s running that business as far as being able to capture the revenue opportunity out there or any inhibition given by your views around risk taking and these capital balance sheet changes that you guys have talked about today?  I’d refer you to page 21 in the appendix in the lower left hand corner.
And you can see this is the third quarter ‘12 ‘13 and ‘14 laid out side-by-side.
And so I don't think this is a change in position and if you look at the average trading weighted assets of 460 to 440 the bars 55 million and 56 million 50 million and you can see the revenue.
So we've probably done a good job of building a relatively stable -- business is going to fluctuate in the market but a relatively stable core amount of activity comes through this.
And if you look at it over several quarters with the exception of seasonality in the first quarter that typically occurs each year but we’ve laid this out for you second quarter throughout ‘13 ‘14 last quarter and third quarter.
You see it's a relatively consistent $3 billion revenue type of number and we've maintain that.
So adjustments we've made in the business on expenses the scope of activities and stuff we actually made in ‘10 and ‘11 to bring that business inline.
So we're very comfortable where they are now.
They are always moving around impairing risks and continue to manage carefully the overall returns of the business.
Its relative size to our company we think we got in a good place we simplified it.
And so there is no change in strategy here.
And in fact you can see there is a fairly consistent results from that activity.
What's different this quarter versus last quarter obviously without the UK taxing you're seeing the bottom-line comes through the third quarter.
But we've made $700 million after-tax and that's a good performance.
Thanks Brian.
And to follow just on the mortgage business the servicing line has continued to just trickle out.
I'm just wondering have we seen the bottoming of the former sales and the related revenues moving away from that.
I think if you look at the servicing revenue as I said the biggest reason for the decline was an adjustment in the cost to serve.
If you saw the actual servicing fee line that came through linked quarter it was only down about $25 million on a linked quarter basis.
And so what you're going to see on a go forward basis is not so much the impact on the sale of MSRs but just the servicing revenue that's derived based on the size of the MSR assets.
So given that there aren’t any more large scale sales of that MSR you're going to see that more very on a core basis as opposed to a step function.
And the pre-tax? What we'll see is that the number 60 plus delinquents continues to normalize now we have to continue to push that that's where we think that we’re going to get the additional expense leverage in LAS going forward.
And so it's $100 million this quarter and couple of $100 million.
It’s just grinding through and working those loans for the customers and modifying or short selling and going through foreclosure.
So that number is still elevated as a percentage you can see it.
And if you look at our delinquency off of the things we produced really since after the crisis the numbers are much smaller and imply delinquency level ultimately half that amount that you see now.
So that's where the real work will come in unit reduction.
The overall 3.9 million units is fluctuating around a little bit but we're kind of getting to equilibrium where our production is nearly what runs off had some sales and the 60 plus bucket.
And my last follow-up just on that point you had talked about $1.1 billion by 1Q 2015.
You had previously talked about getting it down to about $500 million a year out from that.
Is that still a reasonable expectation given that backdrop you just laid out? The first thing that we're focused on is getting it done through a billion one and then longer term I think if you look at any metric with where we would see from a number of loan service as well as the number of delinquent loans in the portfolio.
We still have some significant work to do to drive billion one down because given the size of the portfolio it's way too high.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And we'll go next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes I just wanted to follow up on that.
You talk about 60 day delinquent loans down 42 000 to 221 000.
I don't think there is any sale of that.
Is that just working through the portfolio and that seems like a very high pace? Can we expect that type of pace or what type of pace of loans do you think you can work out on a quarterly or annualized basis? Yes.
There were some servicing transfers during the quarter.
My recollection is that was between 20 000 and 25 000 units that were actually transferred during the quarter.
So it was a very good quarter for us as far as MSR sales and driving that number down.
But I think you’re right that on a go forward basis it’s not going to be at that level although we do think we’ll make some significant progress between now and the end of ‘15.
Outside of the servicing trends it was 20 000 to 25 000 so it was down roughly about 15 000 give or take give or take 1 000 loans.
Is that a pace that we could model going forward? There are obviously a lot of factors that can go into that that are going to happen but I don’t think -- if you believe that with what we’re saying from the quality of the portfolio and you believe the foreclosure process continues along the same trends.
You’re probably looking at plus minus 20 000 units a quarter on an organic basis on a net basis.
Okay.
And then relative to the big Department of Justice settlement where do you think you are on legal costs? I know it's hard to sit there and say but we've seen a couple other competitors get the Department of Justice behind them but there still tends to be this nagging $1 billion here and there in legal costs that just won't go away.
Where do you think we are -- is Bank of America since they've paid probably the most out than anybody are you more through that than most other people? Well Some of that stuff that people experience are pieces that we have already taken care of in prior quarters and some of it relates to completely different – as it relates to mortgage matters some relates to other matters.
We will always have litigation expense in this company.
But in terms of the mortgage we have talked to you in many quarters but if you think just last three quarters three major pieces still behind and we’re still waiting for the ultimate approval of the Gibbs &amp; Bruns settlement 95% of the RMBS by principal amount.
We had settlements and settlements at this point are awaiting final approval.
So yes a lot of pieces we have settled up FHA and things like that along the way.
So we’ve got in the monolines four out of the five are settled.
So we've been picking a way.
And so without knowing all the ins and outs of the other competitors from our standpoint a lot of the smaller stuff was getting done as a lot of you focused on largest things a lot of the smaller stuff is coming in and out every quarter underneath that and we should see less of that going forward.
Okay.
Hey guys thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Matthew Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey Matt.
Hi Brian thanks for taking my question.
I guess just a question in terms of the investment banking product rankings on page 32.
Obviously most of the numbers are in the top three particularly in the more important categories.
I guess just looking at the global rankings in terms of some of the numbers that aren’t in the top three are there further investments you all plan to make in that business that would have any effect on the operating expense ratios in Global Banking or is that pretty much steady state in terms of the investments you all are putting into those businesses?  I think as a broad construct and I think you're asking the more strategic level.
Christian Meissner and the team with Tom have done good job of adding people in the markets where we needed to build our capabilities and we’re always looking to add more and more talent more and more capabilities.
I don't think there is any huge change in expenses or numbers.
It's more of a continuously upgrading our talent and adding incremental talent.
But in the grand scheme of things it's a pretty small expense base in the context for our company with the level of expenses.
But your point is exactly right.
The global the U.S.
competitors our franchise is obviously demonstrably stronger as you can see in the U.S.
rankings versus the global.
The global bas picked up honestly.
And as activity picks up in Europe and Asia we continue to drive forward.
But we still are working hard to improve our positioning in it across the board but we’ve made a lot of investments already.
And then if I could just ask a follow-up on the commercial -- non-U.S.
commercial loans couple of competitors have mentioned that there has been some weakness in trade finance lending.
And I am just curious how much if any that has affected the loan growth within the non-U.S.
commercial side of the balance sheet? It has affected us in two ways.
So when you look at the decline that we saw within the loans outside of the U.S.
a chunk of that decline was a decline in trade finance.
So I think what's also notable is the trade finance test to have the lowest spreads.
So when you look at the yields within the international loan portfolio they’re up.
And that's because you've got more corporate type loans that have higher spreads than trade finance which tends to have lower spreads.
Thanks very much Bruce.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Mine were asked and answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
And we'll go next to Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Bruce the first question regards capital and profitability targets.
I know at a recent investor conference you alluded to the fact that you believe that CCAR currently represents the binding capital constrain for the bank which is just that presumably you'll need to manage to a higher core Tier 1 which I guess from my perspective could put at risk the 14% [ROTE] goal that you guys had established in the early part of this year.
And I suppose it's really a two-part.
First what core Tier 1 target do you believe you'll need to manage over the cycle and then as a follow-up to that how does that inform your outlook for meeting that goal?  Sure.
Well a couple of things.
I go back to the first comment which is that you have to break out a little bit what’s going to happen for our company over the next five quarters between the growth in tangible common equity versus the growth in regulatory capital that flows into the capital ratio because as I said before over the next five quarters we'll accrete capital on a pre-tax basis absent any other changes.
But it’s the first thing I keep in mind.
The second thing is that as we look out we do believe at this point that CCAR is the governor and we’re obviously getting ready to go into the 2015 CCAR process and without instructions or any assumptions or scenarios that I think it's premature to look at that.
The third thing is you look at return targets and Mike touched on this a little bit in his earlier question.
I think the thing that as we look to get into those 12% 14% type targets the thing I would encourage you to do because I do think that you start to get a bridge to that is if you take the earnings that we announced today in normalize and for the things that I touched on in my comments you tend to be starting at a point that's in the 10% plus type return during the quarter from a tangible common equity perspective.
And you've got really four things that are going to change that on a go forward basis.
The continued reduction within our LAS expenses we would expect obviously longer term litigation expenses to go down.
You have the benefit of rate.
And then you've got what we do within the core businesses.
So those are the four things that we're focused on.
And the last point I would say is it relates to just CCAR we feel like getting ready for CCAR during this quarter and quite frankly throughout the year that we've made a lot of work between moving out of the company those assets that tend to have low or high loss contents.
In stress we’ve augmented our CET1 ratios as we’ve gone forward.
And we think we’ve taken a lot of tail risk out.
So long-winded way of saying you can kind of look at the bridge to more normalized returns when you adjust what we saw this quarter.
We feel very good about the progress that we’ve made as we prepare for CCAR.
We’ll look to see what the instructions are and we’ll have to see if our assumption about that being the governor given the evolving regulatory landscape continues to be the case or if we need to update that assessment.
All right.
Thanks for that Bruce.
That's really helpful.
And then just switching gears to the liquidity side of the equation one measure which hasn't garnered very much attention is the net stable funding ratio.
And my understanding is that Basel's at least intended goal was to have the NSFR calibration completed by the end of this year.
And I was hoping you could disclose where you currently stand on this metric? So we do not have an exact number to disclose at this point.
What I would say is we worked through and we’ve done the work to get to where we needed to be from an LCR perspective that at this point there is not anything that gives us any concern that we’re going to have to change it any material way and what we’re doing to satisfy NSFR.
All right thanks.
And maybe just one more quick modeling question.
I was hoping you could clarify given all the preferred issuance that's been done assuming nothing incremental is completed going forward in terms of issuance what the preferred coupon should be on an annualized basis next year? I’ve got an exact number for you.
Bear with me one second.
You should see during next year a preferred number of 1262.
All right perfect.
That's it for me.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thank you everyone.
Look forward to seeing you next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Bank of America Earnings Announcement Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode but later you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this call is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks to everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the fourth quarter results.
Hopefully you guys have had a chance to review the earnings release documents available on the Web site.
Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make forward-looking statements.
For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents our Web site or our other SEC filings.
So with that let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan our CEO for some opening comments before Bruce Thompson the CFO goes through the details.
Thank you.
Thank you Lee and good morning and thank all of you for joining us to review our fourth quarter results for 2014.
As we think about the year we’ve accomplished a lot including resolving many significant legacy issues that were overshadowing the underlying progress in our financials.
Solving these issues obviously came at a cost and drove a decline in year-over-year net income.
But importantly it settles through the uncertainty for all of us for investors regulators rating agencies and others allowed us to focus on the core business and operation of the company going forward.
As we move to Slide 2 you could see that we have a simplified and stronger company.
Today we reported earnings of $3.1 billion after tax.
The company is simpler and more straightforward with improved risk profile.
Everything we do now is focused on driving the company forward and delivering for our customers and clients.
On this slide you can see some of the important results this year we completed probably the industry’s largest ever cost savings program which achieved $8 billion of annualized savings.
Let’s think about that we started that program in 2011 when we had around 290 000 FTE and over the last three years since then driving it the right way we completed 2014 ending the year with around 220 000 FTEs.
Non-interest expense excluding litigation declined 4.4 billion compared from 2013 to 2014 and is down more than $8 billion the last couple of years and yet we have more work to do ahead of us.
We further strengthened an already strong liquid balance sheet and increased our common stock dividend during 2014 for the first time since 2007.
As you can see on this page our credit costs are at a decade low level.
So notwithstanding the headwinds our industry faces with rates on an ongoing global economic sluggishness we’ve built a platform for growth especially in the context of continuous improving of U.S.
economy.
We have built a company with leading market positions across every core customer base.
And our task now is continue to build on that foundation and the progress we’ve made.
As you look at our results you’d see that year-over-year earnings in our primary businesses with exceptions with the consumer real-estate business made progress that shows stability in a volatile rate geopolitical environment.
Importantly as you think about our company we have been investing growth while taking out expense.
We reduced our overall headcount during 2014 by around 8% but at the same time we invested.
We invested by reallocating resources to sales capacity from those savings increasing in all our core businesses.
We invested by reallocating expense reductions to product capabilities and both capabilities our cash management capabilities and other capabilities around the world.
We’ve invested some of the savings in our technology spending over $3 billion in 2014 to improve and protect our company.
Now you can see the results in the appendix pages and Bruce will touch on them in the line of business presentations.
We expect to continue this effort going forward.
We have teams working on it every day.
They are working to be allocating non-productive expense to drive towards growth.
The line management obtained a good expense management come to expect from our company.
At the same time we are laser focused on money market sharing growth with our customers the economy continues to improve and we look forward to reporting that progress during the year ahead.
With that I’ll turn it over to Bruce to take you through the quarter’s numbers.
Great.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
Let’s start on Slide 3 and I am going to go through the details.
During the fourth quarter we recorded $3.1 billion of earnings or $0.25 per diluted share.
Let me give you a few thoughts on revenues.
There were two significant adjustments to revenue as well as negative DVA charges that in the aggregate reduced reported revenues this quarter by $1.2 billion pretax or roughly $0.07 a share after tax.
Of the components of the $1.2 billion impact we recorded roughly $578 million negative market related adjustments which as you all know we refer to as FAS 91 and net interest income for the acceleration of bond premium amortization on our debt securities that was driven by lower long-term rates otherwise our core net interest income which excludes this market related adjustment was pretty stable with the fourth quarter coming in a little bit better than we signaled to you all during our third quarter earnings call.
In addition this quarter we adopted FVA which is for Funding Valuation Adjustment and incurred a $497 million charge against our sales and trading results as a result of that adoption.
And as we normally provide to you a credit spreads tightened and this tightening caused the negative charge for DVA in the trading account of approximately $130 million during the quarter.
Expenses during the quarter were well managed.
Our total non-interest expense in the fourth quarter was $14.2 billion which included approximately $400 million in litigation expense during the quarter.
This level of expense is the lowest level of expense that we’ve seen since the Merrill Lynch merger.
And credit cost during the quarter improved as our provision for credit losses was $219 million and included 660 million in the release of reserves.
On Slide 4 reduced asset levels in our global markets business drove our balance sheet levels lower coming down $19 billion from the third quarter of '14 and we finished at just over 2.1 trillion in assets.
We continued our focus on balance sheet optimization for liquidity as we continue to shift our discretionary portfolio into HQLA eligible securities from non-HQLA loans and also improved our deposit composition.
As we have signaled to you in the third quarter earnings call discretionary portfolio first lien loans declined from the third quarter of '14 levels but we were very pleased with the loan growth we saw in our core businesses during the quarter.
If we look in those core businesses global banking loans increased $4 billion during the quarter.
Within wealth management loan balances grew $3 billion.
And our U.S.
consumer credit card receivables increased $2.9 billion during the quarter.
We did have a $2.7 billion decline in our direct and indirect portfolio as we transferred a portfolio of student loans to held-for-sale.
Our deposits grew from the end of the third quarter while short-term funding declined.
We executed another successful issuance of 1.4 billion of preferred stock early in the third quarter and that benefited regulatory capital.
Shareholders’ equity improved with both the earnings growth as well as the improvements in AOCI.
As a result of that our tangible book value increased to $14.43 per share and our tangible common equity ratio improved to 7.47%.
We move to regulatory capital on Slide 5 under the transition rules our CET1 ratio was 12.3% we look at our Basel III regulatory capital metrics on a fully phased-in basis CET1 capital improved $6.2 billion during the quarter that was driven by earnings deferred tax utilization as well as the improvement in AOCI.
Our operational risk weighted assets during the quarter increased again they now represent 34% of total risk weighted assets but not withstanding that increase we were able to keep our Basel III advance ratio at level of consistence with what we saw at the end of third quarter.
Under the standardized approach our CET1 ratio improved from 9.5% in the third quarter of '14 to 10% at the end of the year.
We look at our supplementary leverage ratios.
We’ve done a lot of work over the past year to improve those obviously the fully phased-in kick-in in 2018.
We look at where we ended the quarter in our bank holding company our SLR ratio was a 5.9% and primary banking subsidiary BANA we were at approximately 7%.
We turn to Slide 6 funding and liquidity long-term debt ended the quarter at 243 billion down 7 billion from the third quarter of '14.
We have done a lot of work over the past couple of years to smooth out our parent company maturity profile and as you can see we have $22 billion scheduled to mature in 2015 and comparable amounts over the next 4 to 5 years.
Our global excess liquidity sources reached a record level during the quarter and closed at $439 billion and within those global excess liquidity sources our parent company liquidity improved 5 billion from the end of the third quarter to $98 billion at the end of the year.
Time to required funding increased to 39 months during the fourth quarter and during the quarter if we continued to increase our estimated liquidity coverage ratios at both the consolidated as well as at the bank levels.
At the end of the year we’re well ahead of the 100% fully phased-in 2017 requirements at the consolidated level and at more than 90% at the bank level which is well ahead of the 80% phased-in 2015 requirement and are well positioned to achieve the 2017 requirement.
We turn to Slide 7 on net interest income our net interest income on an FTE basis was $9.9 billion down from the third quarter of '14 as a result of the more negative market related adjustment I mentioned a moment ago which also drove a reported net interest yield decline of 11 basis points.
Lower long-term rates coupled with the flattened yield curves resulted in adjustments to our assumptions to our bond premium amortizations which drove the $578 million of market related adjustments in the fourth quarter versus the negative $55 million we saw during the third quarter of '14.
We adjust this market related adjustment NII was $10.4 billion and declined less than $100 million from the third quarter of '14 despite the challenging rate environment we saw during the fourth quarter.
The adjusted NII decline was driven by the impacts of the lower discretionary loan balances within the consumer real estate portfolio.
If we look at net interest yield on an adjusted basis it was up a touch from the third quarter of 2014 to 2.3%.
Given the movement lowering rates that we saw during the quarter we did become more asset-sensitive touched at 100 basis point parallel increase in rates from what we saw at the end of the year we’d be expected to contribute roughly $3.7 billion in NII benefits over the course of the next 12 months.
And given the boom in rates the sensitivity is now more evenly weighted to both long-term as well as short-term rate moves.
Before we leave this slide I do want to remind you that during the first quarter of '15 we have two fewer interest accrual days than the fourth quarter of '14 which will negatively impact NII by a couple of $100 million.
Non-interest expense and then moving to Slide 8 was 14.2 billion in the fourth quarter of '14 and included approximately $400 million in litigation expense.
As I said earlier this is the lowest quarterly expense amount that we have reported since the Merrill Lynch merger.
We exclude litigation total expenses were 13.8 billion which declined 300 million from the third quarter of '14 and was driven by our LAS initiative cost savings as well as lower revenue related incentive costs within our global markets business.
We compare these expenses to the fourth quarter of 2013 we were down $1.2 billion driven by LAS cost savings new BAC benefits and to a lesser degree the lower revenue related incentives.
Legacy assets and servicing costs ex-litigation were 1.1 billion in the quarter 200 million lower than the third quarter and 700 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2013.
As we continue to work through these delinquent loans we expect these quarterly costs will come down a few $100 million more by the end of 2015.
Headcount was down 5 800 during the quarter and as we look at expense a reminder that we will record our normal annual retirement eligible incentive cost in the first quarter of 2015 and we expect that number to be roughly $1 billion consistent with what we’ve seen in the past couple of years.
We turn to asset quality on Slide 9 that quality continue to improve during the quarter Q4 provision expense was $219 million and we relived the net 660 million of reserves given the continued pace of asset quality improvement particularly within our consumer real estate portfolio.
Reported charge-offs were 879 million and declined from the third quarter of 2014.
I would remind you both periods of net charge-offs included NPL sales and not their recoveries and the fourth quarter included approximately 150 million of cost related to actions that were taking in relation to our DOJ settlement which we’re previously reserved for.
If we exclude the recoveries in the DOJ component charge-offs in the fourth quarter were just over $1 billion versus a similarly adjusted net charge-off amount of 1.2 billion in the third quarter of '14.
Loss rate on the same adjusted basis were 47 basis points in the fourth quarter of '14 versus 52 basis points that we saw in the third quarter of '14.
Let’s now move to the business segment results which we start on Slide 10 with consumer and business banking.
Our results within consumer and business banking shows solid bottom-line performance with earnings of $1.8 billion those were down from the fourth quarter of '13 due largely to lower release of loan loss reserves and to a lesser degree higher tax rates.
Business generated a solid 24% return on allocated capital during the quarter.
Revenue was up slightly on a year-over-year basis despite net interest income being down as our non-interest income grew more than 5% with a strong improvement in card income.
We look at customer activity during the quarter we had solid deposit growth and our rates paid is now at 5 basis points.
Loans on a linked quarter basis increased seasonally driven by U.S.
consumer credit card our card issuance remains very strong at 1.2 million new cards in the fourth quarter of '14 of which approximately 67% of those were issued to existing customers.
We look at all of 2014 we issued 15% more cards in '14 than '13 and increased the percentage of the issuance to our existing customers which is consistent with the overall strategy.
Credit quality improved again as our U.S.
credit card loss rate fell to 2.7% and continues to have a very strong risk adjusted margin at just below 10%.
Our Merrill Edge brokerage assets grew $114 billion which is up 18% year-over-year on new accounts strong accounts flows as well as higher market levels.
Our mobile banking customers reached 16.5 million in the fourth quarter and now 12% of all customer deposit transactions are done through mobile devices.
We adjust for portfolio divestitures combined debit and credit purchase volume was up 4% relative to the fourth quarter of '13 and if we back fuel up it was up 5%.
Move to consumer real estate services on the Slide 11 the improvement in the results compared to the third quarter of '14 was driven by the third quarter of '14 DOJ settlements which impacted expense provision as well as income tax.
Revenues did increase slightly over the third quarter of '14 while expense even after we exclude litigation declined from the third quarter as both the former cost on the production side and cost on the delinquent loan servicing side were down from the third quarter.
Core production revenue and servicing fees were both stable compared to the third quarter of '14 while servicing income did benefit from better MSR hedging results.
On the production front first mortgage retail originations were stable with the third quarter of '14 at 11.6 billion and the pipeline was consistent with the third quarter of '14 as well albeit up on a year-over-year basis.
On home equity we’re the number one lender in line originations during the quarter with 3.4 billion in line with the third quarter of '14 and up north of 70% on a year-over-year basis.
The credit quality of those second-lien originations remains very strong with average cycle scores over 790 in combined loan-to-value ratios at less than 60%.
Expenses in the segment did include 262 million if litigation cost in the fourth quarter versus 5.3 billion that we saw in the third quarter of '14.
We continue to work through and resolve RMBS securities litigation matters including this quarter the FHLB of San Francisco matter.
With the resolution of that we now estimate that we’ve resolved approximately 98% of the unpaid principal balance of all RMBS as to which RMBS securities litigation has been filed or threatened against all Bank of America related entities.
LAS expense ex-litigation this quarter was just over 1.1 billion as we achieved our first quarter of 2015 goal a quarter ahead of schedule.
Importantly the number of 60 plus days delinquent loans that we have dropped to 189 000 units which is down 32 000 or 14% from the third quarter of 2014.
We turn to Slide 12 global wealth and investment management delivered another strong quarter.
Pre-tax was strong net income was just over 700 million but was down from the fourth quarter of '13 and solid fee-based growth was offset by lower net interest income and higher expense.
Record asset management fees offsets the weakness we saw in transactional activity and still drove a 7% increase in non-interest revenue relative to the fourth quarter of '13.
Our asset management fees now represents 45% of revenue within the segment up from 40% a year ago.
Non-interest expense did increase from the fourth quarter of '13 as a result of higher performance-based incentives as well as increased support cost.
We increased the number of financial advisors in year-to-date retention of our experienced financial advisors remains at record levels.
Return on allocated capital was 23%.
Client balances were nearly 2.5 trillion up 36 billion from the third quarter of '14 and were driven by strong client balance inflows.
Long-term AUM flows were $9 billion for the quarter and represented the 22nd consecutive quarter of positive flows.
Our record loan flows during the quarter reflect 3 billion in growth over the third quarter of '14 in securities space as well as residential mortgage lending.
And our period end deposits were up 7 billion or 3% from the third quarter of 2014.
If we turn to Slide 13 global banking earnings for the quarter were 1.4 billion up from the fourth quarter of '13 on lower credit cost and to a lesser degree reduced expenses.
Results were partially -- the net income was partially offset during the quarter on a year-over-year basis by lower investment banking fees off of what was a record level in the fourth quarter of '13.
Return on allocated capital was strong at 18%.
We look at the investment banking revenues of north of $1.5 billion we feel very good about the results they were up on a linked quarter basis and our investment banking team executed very well in a tough distribution environment given the volatility of rates as well as energy prices.
Provision was a slight benefit in the quarter and reflected continued low loss rates in a small reserve release compared to the year ago period which included a reserve addition of $434 million.
If we look at the balance sheet would point to two average loans were 271 billion up 3.7 billion from the third quarter of 2014 levels.
If we switch to global markets on Slide 14 the business reported a modest loss in the quarter but that did include a $497 million charge to implement FVA.
For those unfamiliar with FVA funding valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the fair value of uncollateralized derivative trades to account for the present value of funding cost.
This is an accounting practice many of our peers have also adopted and as you all know this is a one-time transition cost for implementation.
Separately net DVA for the quarter was a loss of 130 million versus a loss of 617 million during the fourth quarter of '13.
Earnings are down from the fourth quarter of '13 as a result of a decline in sales and trading revenue that was mostly offset by decline in expense.
If you recall on our fourth quarter '13 call fixed sales and trading during that quarter included 220 million in recoveries on legacy positions in the fourth quarter of '13.
Sales and trading adjusting for net DVA and FVA were $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter of '14 versus 2.8 billion in the fourth quarter of '13 after we adjust for the recoveries.
On the same adjustment basis fixed sales and trading revenues of $1.5 billion compare to $1.9 billion in the year ago period.
December results were particularly challenging during the quarter with the toughest areas of performance being the credit sensitive businesses within FICC most notably mortgages and credit trading which are generally our largest trading revenue related businesses.
On the positive side we saw increases in both FX in rates revenues versus the prior year that were driven by increased volatility given global deflationary expectations leading to the U.S.
dollar strengthening.
Equity sales and trading was up modestly from the fourth quarter of '13 as increased volatility was a positive for secondary flows across both our cash and derivative trading businesses.
On the expense front the decline reflects litigation expense of 655 million in the fourth quarter of '13.
If we take that litigation expense out expenses still declined 5% from the fourth quarter of '13 as the incentives were reduced to align with the revenue performance that we saw.
On Slide 15 all other the results in the fourth quarter of '13 reflect lower revenue from NII largely associated with the market related adjustments that we’ve discussed as well as lower securities gained and equity investment income partially offset by gains on the sale of certain loans with long-term standby agreements that were converted to securities.
Significant equity investment income is largely a thing of the past for us as we’ve reduced the size of the principle investing positions in the business as well as strategic positions and should be modeled accordingly.
You’ll also notice we took additional reserves to the payment protection insurance but at a lower level than we saw during the third quarter of 2014.
Our fourth quarter 2014 expense is down year-over-year on less non-mortgage litigation expense and lower infrastructure costs.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29% and I would expect the tax rate for the company in 2015 to be in the low 30s absent any unusual items.
One other thing I want to mention before wrapping up is some movement in our business lines that you’ll see as we report them to you in 2015.
In the first quarter of '15 we expect to align business banking into our global banking business which takes this more commercial business out of our core consumer and business banking unit.
In addition we expect to move the home loans portion of our consumer real estate services business to consumer banking as this product remains integral to their relationships with us.
So to conclude my comments as we look at both 2014 and the fourth quarter of '14 capital and liquidity reached record levels which provides a solid base to support our businesses that hold leading or top-tier positions in the industry.
We continue our focus on expense and operating leverage after reaching significant milestones this year on both new BAC as well as LAS cost saving initiatives.
We reported a quarter of much lower legacy assets and servicing operating and litigation costs which have been burdening our reported results.
Asset quality continues its trend of improvement against the slowly improving U.S.
macroeconomic backdrop and we continue to remain well positioned to benefit in an environment where rates starts to increase.
And with that we’ll go ahead and open it up for questions.
I just want to talk a little bit about the asset sensitivity and how we should be thinking about that from here in particular as long end of the curve has come down since the end of this quarter so just wanted to understand is that FAS 91 effect to the day given what the long end of the curve has done? And then maybe just to speak to what you’re doing to trying to minimize any further pressure? A couple of things so if you follow us Betsy we’ve historically have been saying that the 100 basis points is in the $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion range and think of the increase to 3.7 more or less just representing the recapturing of the FAS 91 that we saw this quarter and that’s why we referenced that there has been more asset sensitivity on the long side the short-end side really hasn’t changed at all.
Sure and then given the fact that the tenure is now yielding like 1.8 or so should we assume like if we end the quarter in 1Q at 1.8 that the same type of 10 basis points down drives FAS 91 effect it’s the same in the first quarter as it was in the fourth quarter or is it because you’re more asset sensitive there is a little bit higher impact? That’s a good question I think when we looked at this last night that the movement that we’ve seen in so far in the first quarter of '15 is almost identical to what we saw during the fourth quarter so if you were to snap it off of what we saw last night it would be a comparable type number realizing we stopped 2.5 months ago.
Okay.
And is there any give backs in refi activities that you’re expecting? Yes it says here if we look at we referenced if refi activity increased as a percentage of overall mortgage production in the fourth quarter and as I have said in my prepared remarks if we look at the pipelines and compare the mortgage pipeline at year-end relative to the comparable period it’s up pretty significantly and we’ll just have to see how that plays out realizing that the first quarter does tend to be a little bit seasonally slow.
The other thing Betsy is that it has been in January if HSN starts moving and the amount of applications coming in have fairly started the upward move due to this last refi so as those things close through we’d expect to see some pick up in production this quarter from the refi.
Hi Bruce just wanted to follow-up on the NII on the core side of NIIX ex the FAS 91 your core NII held up well despite what you had indicated in October about kind of being conservative with the buy ticket.
I guess how does you kind of hold the core end on NII and how are you navigating that now and what feels like a even more difficult environment for kind of reinvesting cash flows today with the tenure where it is? Sure that’s a good question John there are a couple of things the first is if you look at the quarter I think we did a good job with respect to the overall debt footprint which was down $7 billion which helped us out a little bit.
Secondly if you look at we were able to get another basis point out on the deposit front and throughout the quarter we saw some loan growth that was a little bit better than what we would have seen when we spoke to you during the quarter.
The other thing that we did see during the quarter is we were able to invest and get some of the investments in the portfolio and I believe it was a mid-November when rates did back up and as we go forward we do have liquidity to invest in the second and third months of the quarter and we’ll be prudent with how we invest it relative to OCI risk.
The other thing I would say just before we leave this John that I should have referenced with Betsy’s point is that it’s easy to focus on the FAS 91 because we resetting the amortization of premium and the other thing you need to realize is that we did see in the quarter is with the rate movement up while you do have a negative on FAS 91 you’ve got a significant positive from a capital perspective where OCI in the quarter from the rate movement was north of $3 billion.
So on the core piece Bruce do you expect to be more challenging to kind of hold in to that 104 with the tenure where it is does it make it more difficult and how should we think about the rest of the 104 if rates stay low? Well I think as I said in my comments the 104 you really need to start out at about 102 because you’ve got two less days during the quarter.
And I’d say that there is a little bit of headwind to hold that on a core basis and we’re obviously doing everything we can to keep it as close to 102 as we can realizing that we’re not going to take outsized OCI risk.
Okay.
And then shipping gears on expenses you got the LAS target a quarter at a time do you have a year-end target I think you said you expect to continue to reduce the LAS to 1.1 could you just clarify that? I think as we look out and we look at the plans and actions along with the progress that we’ve made on the 60 plus day delinquency I think broadly speaking as you know this number can bounce around a little bit but we’d look to have the LAS expenses down to the $800 million type area by the end of the year and we’re obviously working through plans as we look out to 2016 to continue to drive that number south of 800 million as we go forward.
Okay.
And how should we think about kind of core rest of Bank of America expenses where you came in nicely at the 127 for the fourth quarter obviously you mentioned the stock option expense stuff in the first quarter but as we think about 2015 what are you hoping to do on the core expense space? John I think it probably is sort of about a broad level and Bruce can touch in so if you think about in the fourth quarter a couple of things happened one is you have to remember margins for the investment was down so be careful not to forget as we see it coming back this quarter and expect it to rise as it just did in the first quarter that would be a increased expense which you should want obviously.
And the rest of it is basically a continuous process of taking out expenses and bringing the bottom-line of reinvest growth so to give you a straightforward way in the fourth quarter the reduction headcount of approximately 5 000 and 1 100 or so was LAS and the rest was core activity we will just be growing down expense base at the same time we have added sales people during that quarter.
So what we’re trying to do is ideally we wouldn’t expect it to fall dramatically but I’d expect you guys to be able to see us continuing to make strong investments in sales capacity technology products while holding expenses relatively flat with a slight down or biased irrespective of you just got to be careful of the compensation related to revenue because we don’t want that to be higher.
So in FICC it seems a little bit below what certainly what I was looking for and I know you highlighted some of the difficult markets that you’re large in was there any specific positional pain given what we saw in some of the credit spreads and some of the movements there? No not at all just to go back to the core premise that we talk about which is that the banking and markets businesses are run as an integrated business and a lot of the activity that we see within the markets area is in market making and other things that are done off of the new issue platform from an underwriting perspective and I think what we saw during the quarter particularly in December was that there was a significant slowdown as we saw overall volatility in the markets from both a new issue as well as a secondary market perspective that flow through but there were not any if you look here there were no losses or particular pain points within the global markets piece of the equation during the quarter.
And then can you guys add any comment to the press reports we have seen about you’re rationalizing the PB business and cutting ties to 150(h)(1) class? Well I think this is a customer profitability exercise.
As we look at driving the franchise Tom and Syed Mateen have done a good job repositioning the equities business.
We had the constrain of prime brokerage a bit due to size because of the flow of balance sheet return as you’d be aware of but importantly it’s the customer profitability we are looking for customers who will use this with multiple products and services what is fixed income equities all that there is a fixed income and so as we take this cash resource which is the GAAP balance sheet and the RWA balance sheet and allocate it across customers we’ve got extra rate returns and this was the natural question.
Should we expect to think about some revenue headwinds in your equities business as we model out 2015 as a result of some of those efforts? No it’s all pretty much through it right now and as you look at the revenue sort of quarter-to-quarter run plus or minus $1 billion and Syed Mateen has done a good job of increasing the yields from the other clients at the same time.
So that I would absent market forces are just I wouldn’t expect that much an effect.
Then helpful to hear about the target of around $800 million for LAS by year-end and then driving it lower in 2016.
Can you help us think about how you think about that number to zero? Because I mean ultimately that's -- given the title the L in the LAS right? That's got to go to zero eventually.
How should we think about that? Well we have got several and in there and so there is all the servicing expense in the company is in that unit well good loans and bad loans so it doesn’t go to zero but it’s got to get a lot better at this.
If you start to move on to 4 million or so units we have in first mortgage servicing and think about the annualized cost we have got to get us down significantly may be servicing and mortgages make sense to us and so but that’s a project that we’re working against doing it the right way for the customer doing it the right way for the regulatory environment and the consent orders and all the things that have gone on as you are aware and so we just got to keep feeling out a way.
So when we say 800 or so that is the next way station on our train right here but it’s got to go a lot further than that for the 3.5 million to 4 million the good units we have so to speak.
Okay.
So no indication about where that settling-out level might ultimately be even if not a win but kind of what the number would be? Well I think the Bruce talked about a half billion but I am not sure that’s a great performance not overtime either.
So just assume that there is nothing more interesting than driving that number down to a normalized servicing cost than this company.
And then last one for me you guys hit on in the wealth management business and the margin there support cost and revenue related comp could you maybe quantify how much each of those factors impacted the margin change quarter-over-quarter? Yes I think if you look at the a couple of things the first is that from a margin perspective you had a little bit of headwind with NII being lower than what it was but I would -- as you look at the support cost during the quarter I would think about is being about 200 basis points on the margin during the quarter that we saw.
I wonder if we could get your best comment that you can give us on energy-related exposures.
In your Q you have a general comment on energy and $20 billion.
But if you could break it down a little bit more what's secured what's not secured what's investment grade what's not and just how overall you feel your position there -- it would be helpful? I think if we look at the amount of funded exposure across what we referred to as oil and gas the amount of funded exposure which includes derivative exposure was roughly $23 billion at the end of the year.
As you look at that 23 billion I would think of it generally as 60% that’s directly reflected or affected by the price of oil there are a lot of those that have not so you have got roughly $22 billion $23 billion funded 60% directly affected by oil well north of 80% of that are investment grade borrowers and for those non-investment grade borrowers there are obviously secured facilities and in most cases have formulas upon which they can borrow based on the value of the assets that were secured by.
I think if you think overall and one of the things that to give a perspective that we see is in the consumer spending in January on debit and credit cards basically we’ve seen the spend go up by 3% and if you look at these fuel side of that it’s about 5% of that total spending and it is down 28% year-over-year.
So the people are getting a benefit that our consumer customers are getting benefit but the re-spending that benefit and overall thing those are growing through it.
So they are competing -- there is a technical risk for the oil producing companies that Bruce have talked you through but the overall economy even the first week or so January we’re seeing the benefit of the consumer very historically when the year-over-year compares.
I definitely appreciate all that.
You said that was the funded to oil and gas is commitments a larger number I think than that? And do you have the ability to pull back on the commitments? Well I think on average the fundings are roughly 50% of what the commitments are as it relates to the pulling back of commitments I think what I would point to and what our teams did a very good job with is we obviously have commitments in the originate to distribute piece which if we look at we ended the year I believe with two commitments of investment grade borrowers on an originate and distribute basis one of which has had a significant positive event from a financing perspective already this year the others are single A credit that will get done in the second quarter and at outside of the investment grade originate to distribute.
I think there was a couple 100 million dollars that still needed to get done.
So you’re not pulling commitments from borrowers but as it relates to commitments that needed to be distributed the teams have done a very good job.
Okay.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but it sounds like you are semi-comfortable with the positioning.
There will be some hits along the way but this is not a major risk to the portfolio? Again I don't want to put words in your mouth? We’re comfortable with the positions you should assume as we’re making these commitments in environments where oil is higher we’re continually running and stressing those portfolios to be comfortable with the commitments.
And as Brian referenced to the extent that that were in a prolonged period where these prices persist to the extent that there are cost that run through because of difficulties that a commercial or corporate borrower may have that as we look across the overall credit platform you’d expect there to be offsets given what we’re seeing with consumers and other people that are benefiting from lower energy prices.
Okay that's helpful.
Last one from me is I didn't hear anything on TLAC.
If you could tell us where you think your ratio shook out net of the conservation buffer and the SIFI buffer that would be helpful? Yes I think if you look at where we are from a TLAC perspective we’re generally in the 21% type area and embedded in that 21% type area is the fact that that structured note we’ve assumed for that purpose that we would not benefit from structured note funding and if we refinance out those structured note to pick up another 1% to 2% based on the current size of that footprint.
Okay.
I just want to make sure: the 21% is net of the conservation buffer and your SIFI buffer or gross of? No it’s gross up that’s a gross up.
So it’s a roughly 21 call it plus another 1 to 2 for structured notes and then depending on the exact treatment of the buffers as we go through that number would be reduced by the buffers.
Just a quick question on the balance sheet and NII I appreciate the efforts to keep NIM flat; but to really get NII growing we've got to start to see I guess the balance sheet on a net basis grow.
I think your balance sheet was down close to $25 billion this quarter.
At what point do we start to see the net balance sheet -- the restructuring of the balance sheet start to give way to growth? I think what you didn’t see there as we go forward is that we look out into our forecast and models we would expect there to continue to be strong deposit growth throughout 2015 and as we referenced before obviously the goal with that deposit growth is very much a focus to grow loans within our core customer segments.
And as I referenced we saw that within the global banking space this quarter we saw it within wealth management we’re seeing pickups in overall mortgage activity.
So I think you are likely to see the balance sheet creep up as deposits come in and as we look to grow loans I just want to make sure though that we remind you that we will continue to see these discretionary portfolio that’s got whole loans in it that in this rate environment they will continue to repay so you judge how we do on loan growth you need to look at the core businesses.
As I said we would expect to start to see the balance sheet move up and at the same time we’re trying to get things that don’t have a return and our quarter what we do off but to your point I think we’re largely through that.
And I think if you think about it say two years ago I think we sighted about 100 odd billion dollars of non-core loans that’s done under 30 and a dominant part of that is still in the home equity area quite frankly.
So in the card business and the business banking area where we had some stuff that’s pronounced by the predecessor company that we’re largely through all that and that’s why you’re seeing some growth there and then so the card you saw grow its seasonal that it grew and it’s been stable for a number of quarters.
The home equity side is growing quite strongly this stuff and home equity stuff high charge off contents to better decision economics of the company to run it.
But the rest of the loan balance is we ought to see growth with the exception of the sort of discretionary residential mortgage holdings which will continue to run down based on better view of what we want to do for management going forward.
And I think to your point sort of the deleveraging around China improve the leverage ratio as the impact of that should be easing going forward? That’s correct.
Okay.
And just one last a follow-up on -- I don't know if you mentioned this: where you guys are in the NSFR? Yes we’ve done a lot of work we’ve not put anything out public on that but as we’ve looked through it and sort of we do not see that being a constrain as we go forward.
The capital ratios grew more than expected.
Obviously the decline in rates helped the positive earnings and you mentioned the DTA consumption.
As we think about 2015 and the drivers of capital is it more of the same? Or is there call it optimization overall? Not just the loan runoff that you address but as we think about -- you've had Final Rules for the last few months; there are still some adjustments to the business throughout.
How should we think about the capital build? And if you have an estimate for 2015 that would be interesting as well? Sure we’re not going to provide an estimate but what I’d say is that as you look at overall capital levels if you start with the numerator as we project out and look at the earnings stream we think that at least through '15 and possibly into the first part of '16 that on average you can have some quarterly bounces around based on timing and payments but that generally we should accrete capital over the course of at least four and up to six quarters largely based on the pre-tax earnings for the company as oppose to the after-tax earnings and that’s what you saw during the fourth quarter.
The other thing numerator as I referenced that there is if we were to snap a quarter today there would be OCI benefit from the downward movement in rates as it relates to what we’re seeing under risk weighted asset side I’d say generally we continue to benefit although it declines a little bit each period.
We continue to benefit from the run off of some of the global markets position that would have been put on in the 2005 to 2008 time frame that they tended to have tenures of seven to 10 years.
In addition to that as we continue to have payoffs and as we continue to move out some of the comfort consumer real estate assets and put higher quality real estate assets on that are better credit borrowers while the asset levels may stay comparable you do have an RWA pick up from that as well.
On RWA any numbers you can provide in terms of how much benefit you get from them I guess just priced on the credit correlation book and some of those contracts and the real estate running off just those two pieces? No I mean I think as you look forward I mean these tend to be I think outside of op-risk this quarter we had roughly $30 billion of risk weighted asset benefit under the advanced approach roughly half of that was in the consumer book half of that was in the wholesale books.
I think you will continue to see benefits but I don’t think you’ll see the quarterly benefit of that magnitude on a go forward basis.
Okay.
Then just separately the home equity charge-offs increased a fair amount versus 3Q.
Obviously 3Q is a very low level.
But remind me what's going on there.
I think there was an accounting or methodology change a year ago.
Has that fully worked through or is there seasonality or -- what's going on? Yes the biggest thing you have in home equity this quarter is that I believe it was roughly $150 million that went through charge off that was related to the DOJ settlement so realize we have of 150 charge off 150 of reserve so from a net P&amp;L perspective it was a push but you did have that during the quarter and it’s the reason that we wanted to give you the core charge off number Q3 to Q4 because as we implement the DOJ settlement you will see both charge off and reserve release come out in each of probably the first and second quarter then we should be largely through that.
Bruce I was hoping you could maybe help explain what prompted the increase in operational risk RWA? The 34% I guess makes you an outlier relative to some of your peers whereas previously you were more in line.
I know the process typically is you submit the models to the regulators and/or the Fed and then they give you feedback.
I wanted to know: was the increase prompted by the feedback from the regulators themselves as part of the annual review? Or was it what you determined based on your own internal models? Answer the question slightly differently which is that as we work through an interim process with our regulatory supervisors we do believe at this point that from an op-risk perspective that we’re adjusted and the amount of op-risk RWA that we have now is consistent with what you would need to exit parallel run.
Okay understood.
So we shouldn't expect any further increases as a percentage of RWA going forward; or is it simply too early to make that determination? We think with respect to op-risk RWA that we’re there we obviously need to get through those elements that are rest of parallel run but from an perspective we feel like we’re there.
Okay.
That's really great.
Then just one more quick one for me.
I didn't hear in the prepared remarks any color on the investment banking backlog and didn't know if you can give us an update there as well? Yes it’s interesting and we’ve to be a little bit careful I’d say as we looked at the backlog and the pipeline particularly from an M&amp;A perspective that we feel very good about where the pipeline was at year-end the part of the stronger year-end pipeline that we have the only tone of caution I would say is that we’ve obviously seen a little bit more volatility in both the fixed income and equity of new issue markets but it relate to the amount of business that we’re winning it’s getting queued up in the pipeline we feel very good about that it was a good backlog at year-end.
I just wanted to follow-up on a couple of topics that have been touched on already.
Maybe just starting with the risk-weighted asset discussion once more I just want to make sure I understand all the puts and takes of what's going into the risk-weighted asset calc.
It sounds like on the positive side obviously there is the benefit of a GAAP balance sheet reduction as well as the trade-off between lower-quality and higher-quality assets.
And it sounds like the operating-risk component is now fully baked in.
But are there any other components that could drive that up in a way that's different from what's going on on the GAAP balance sheet? I think the only thing that’s out there is that is as part of exiting parallel run we’re working through with our supervisors that the different wholesale and other credit models that you need to exit parallel run so we’re working through that but I think absent that you’re largely at the point of looking at and you’d expect that the RWA is going to largely follow the GAAP balance sheet.
The one thing I think you all know this but where you could possible diverge from that is that there is pro cyclicality to the extent that you have volatility in the markets businesses as it relates to the stress bar calculations that go into the risk weighted asset but outside of that you’d directionally expect it to follow the GAAP balance sheet.
Okay.
And with respect to the GAAP balance sheet what is your overall expectation about the net growth over '15? I think you are probably going to largely see it in the zip code and probably be most correlated to the overall deposit balances and if you look at the range that we’ve been running at over the last 12 months it’s been in the 2.1 to 2.15 2.175 type area and I’d expect that area or that range to hold for 2015.
Great.
Then just to talk about the asset quality for a moment obviously it was the lowest provision that we've seen from you in some time; and many of your peers are inflecting from the point of asset quality improvements to some modest now deterioration and the rebuilding of reserves.
I just want to get a sense from you about where you think you are in that spectrum? Sure I think if we go back and let’s start with the fact that we saw during the quarter that if we back out any impact of loan sales as well as the DOJ settlement charge-offs in the fourth quarter came down from $1.2 billion to just over $1 million I think as you look at charge-offs when you’re virtually zero from a commercial perspective it’s hard to see getting much better than that.
I do think where we’re probably a little bit different is that as we continue to work through and we had another solid improvement of a $2 billion from an NPL perspective within the consumer real estate space that we continue to work through and reduce those tougher consumer real estate credits but I think that if you look at this $1 billion charge-off type level that we’ve seen you’re probably -- probably areas where you’re going to see that flatten out and I think as we look forward there maybe a little bit reserve release on the first half of the year and you probably expect that to flatten out and go away as we get through 2015.
Great.
Then just finally on the LAS expense which I know you've touched on several times but I'm just wondering if the pace of that improvement changes at all as you are getting into the later stages of the delinquency and foreclosure inventory improvement? Yes it does that and the plus side is that you would have ability to push the numbers down faster the economy continues to improve and the market continues to improve and the opportunities for borrowers and time passes frankly.
The flip side of that though is in the states that -- in the areas where the process is slow sort of boiling the beaker and what is left is in the really slow areas and so we’ve sort of caught up in the states where our progress goes through a reasonable fashion and we’re still have the laggards in places that the process is traditionally oriented.
So I think you're absolutely right.
There is a buyer that get better at it and get lower as it starts improving but against that you get to the some of the rocks they are hard to move because the process is so slow.
Secondly if you remember we had we took up on 58 000 employees in that business and there is a lag to getting the real estate cost out and letting of buildings and all the stuff we had that is still until we got to be little careful getting ahead ourselves I think will come down first facility then come out second and so we are working hard on that so you're right that once see the improve the phase-in improvement continues almost normally or even normally better than past but there is something that where we get there in terms of that is much harder and then secondly there is like for the hard cost over and above people cost.
I just want to go back to the net interest margin discussion a little bit.
I thought that I heard you say in the prepared comments that there had been a shift in the balance of the asset sensitivity to more of a balance between long-term versus short-term rates.
I was wondering if that is strictly a function of the FAS 91 issue in a falling long-rate environment.
Or is there something more structural that you've been doing with the portfolio that has caused that to happen? It's the FAS 91 Guy you are absolutely correct.
Okay.
Then if we can just take a look at that one historically for a second obviously over time that has caused quite a lot more volatility in your NIMs than it has for a lot of the peer group.
I seem to remember that for regional banks say that have often had the same issue there is a difference I guess in the way they accrue versus doing the constant resets that you do.
And I was wondering why you do it in the way that you do which seems to create more volatility.
We probably wondered the same thing this quarter.
All we can say if you go back you are right there are two ways that you can do this that the first is the way that we do it which is you have the premium you look at the average life of the premium in each quarter you reset it and basically retroactively make that adjustment from when it started and that was determination that we have made a number of years ago.
But you're right the other way that has allowed and provided for under GAAP is that you just basically adjust as you grow and take it through the P&amp;L as you go and you can do it either of two ways and we obviously do it the way that we do.
Would you ever consider changing that? And if you were to do so would there be a significant one-time charge that would be associated with that? No I think it goes the other way the reality is that we run through the P&amp;L that amortization to catch up in effective way ended up being lower than when the premium was set on.
So I think the way that we do it is absolutely appropriate and keep in mind the other thing and I reference in my earlier comment is that as you do this from a balance sheet perspective you're always adjusting the valuation of your AFS securities to be the fair market value at the time that you publish your financials and obviously that flows through our CI.
Yes fair enough.
You also talked about changing line items or lines of business where certain things are booked as we move into 2015.
That was fairly clear except I was wondering: will this also entail moving the very large investment portfolio of your mortgages from all other into the Consumer category? It will not result in a large portion of mortgages being moved.
There may be a smaller amount or a percentage of it that we continue to evaluate because the one thing that we want to make sure that we do is to have the geography of the financial statements motivate the behavior of the people that serve the client base that they do.
So there maybe possibly a relatively small amount of home equity loans that could travel into the consumer business but it's not going to be anything that the storage things in many meaningful way.
Then final one for me you talked a little bit about the Investment Banking backlog at the turn of the year.
But more broadly for Global Markets and Global Banking taken together can you give us a sense -- now that we're a couple weeks into the year -- how the in particular say trading activity has started off? And given some of the increase in volatility especially with big moves like what happened with the Swiss franc today are you instructing the Global Markets business to pull back on risk? Or generally are you seeing that some of those volatility levels are in some way beneficial? I think there is a couple of part to that.
The first is I think if you look at overall risk levels that we ran within the global markets business and if you look at our information that we put out at year-end that even with the little bit of the pickup in volatility at year-end borrows it low levels and overall balance sheet levels where at low levels as we exited the year and I think with nine trading days into the quarter.
So I think it's a little bit early to forecast what you’d expect for the quarter for the overall sales and trading businesses.
The only thing I would say is that clearly the activity levels that we’ve seen -- that have spend more way return to normal than what we experience in the month of December.
But I wouldn’t want anyone to draw any conclusions -- nine days through 62 trading days in a quarter.
Thank you very much and most of the questions has been answered.
But on your legacy assets -- and you talked about this a little bit where your default numbers have dropped roughly to 189 000 from roughly I think 220 000.
Did you sell anything? Or is that all improvement in just credit in the quarter? In other words did you move the houses out or did you also sell? My recollection is there was roughly a third of that came from the sales of both servicing as well as the underlying loans themselves.
And then in addition to that we saw continued improvement in net new 60 pluses and then we obviously worked others through the normal foreclosure process as well as for those borrowers that cared.
One of the things that -- because I -- on your -- you made a comment about that the lower oil prices has improved some of the consumer credit consumer spending and all that.
Are you seeing any improvement in working through those 60-day defaults from that? Or those loans are just so old relatively speaking in the default bucket that the lower oil prices really doesn't help out? It’s much too early to figure out what the lower price impact would have on mortgage you’re actually seeing consumer spend the money they’re getting and you’re seeing the consumer credit quality stay strong that you project out a period of low prices.
You would see a benefit on consumer side offset by the commercial side.
So I am not sure Paul in the context 60 days bucket to impact old days.
But because people that are going to [indiscernible] first mortgage portfolio they keep coming down and that’s the problem of long-term reduction.
Brian I missed -- I was writing it down as fast as I could but you talked about how that you are seeing consumer balances increase over the last couple months I guess or last month.
Can you go over those numbers again? Consumer spending increased that is that what you are referring to Paul.
So far January of 2013 versus January of 2014 spending on credit debit cards of about 3% year-over-year and that’s overcoming a drag effect of about percentage and a half from lower fuel prices.
I wanted to drill into the Markets business a little bit.
In the sense that we've seen pressure on fixed income the last two quarters is there anything in the drivers of that weakness that would jeopardize the seasonal uptick that we usually see in the first quarter? I think if I understand your question I think that the answer to that is no if you go back and look at -- with the exception of last year the fourth quarter does tend to be the weakest quarter of the year seasonally.
It was obviously a little bit more so this quarter but structurally there is nothing that would lead you to that obviously it’s a market that adds inflows but no there is not anything structural that would lead you to believe that that should be different.
Then there is a lot of noise in the Markets business and I tried to take out as much as I could.
What I'm trying to look at is expense elasticity relative to the revenues.
From third quarter to fourth quarter it looked very effective was about 80% in relation to expenses to revenue reduction.
But over the last year when you take out the litigation expense looks like operating expenses only declined about 20% of what revenues declined.
So I was just curious what you thought maybe the right elasticity number would be there? I think largely we saw in the fourth quarter was collection of the change in incentives levels due to more revenue and you’d expect that to happen.
But let me bring that a little higher to more broader point which is about two years or three years ago Tom Montag and his team made a fundamental restructuring of that business to drop its expense phase to where as long as we get $2.5 billion more revenues more or less we start making some money and if you adjust the FVA charge which is the one-time charge they made somewhere around $300 million this quarter to give you a sense.
So it’s the worst quarter $300 million and best quarter runs over 1 billion and that largely is really marginally profitable where you see the revenues go from the high 2 billion to the 3 billion level to the 4 billion most of that comes through with the compensation of 19% 20% or something like that.
So there is elasticity base you get the lower level start to hit the floor on the fixed cost structure.
Then Brian lastly you've talked several times about the core expenses and the investments you're making.
A lot of the core businesses really all except Banking showed declines in net income sequentially and year-over-year.
Do you feel like you're investing to try to reignite some of that growth going forward? Now one of the things you got to be careful they reflect this all these charge that we talk about and pushed out all the businesses so there is some elements that really aren’t the businesses control for a lack of a better term.
And then secondly you’re still seeing as we move from a period where reserve releases were going along the business level you’re seeing provision changes across the board to have it.
But by enlarge if you look at the fees and address expenses which is two things they control the most you see a pretty good relationship going on and pretty good stability and I’d say if you look across the businesses the consumer bank continues to make good progress on sales capabilities and if actual sales look at some of the later pages you can see it I said wealth management we got to make sure the expenses in the revenues stay on line there we talked about that last quarter and John Thiel and team specially at Merrill Lynch are doing good job getting after that and innovating I think you’ve seen a pretty good relationship if you back out sort of the fundamental impacts of FAS 91 and the provision things like that which says those adjustments we make at the top of the house and push through.
You highlighted that the expenses are at the lowest levels since the Merrill merger and we estimate that they are down almost one-fourth over five years so that's certainly good.
But we also note that revenues are down quite a bit over that time frame too.
So how do you evaluate the trade-off between more aggressive restructuring and investing in the franchise? And specifically you're pretty much done I think with New BAC.
Would you have a program -- maybe Even Newer BAC or a new restructuring plan? Mike we’ve piece of that obviously credit cost you got to think about in terms of if you look back look at the higher revenue levels at the time the charge off run rate was $2 billion to $3 billion a quarter and one quarter was 10 billion approximately for cards especially so be careful about that but I’d say your point really is what you do from now forward and we see that’s we talked about in core expense space we decide the LAS litigation all that stuff it is just the core expense space basically what we continue to do is to take out non-productive expenses and the best part of that back in the franchise and bringing part of that to the ability to that core line continue to move that and that’s down.
Remember that when we’re doing this we’re absorbing housing cost increases wage and salary increases incentive comp increases so we’re heavily focused on maintaining a rational balance between the core revenue and the core expense dynamic going forward and so you should expect to assume that to the continuous program looking at this this is continued simplifier company could being take out divestures of the cost of the crises and as we have downsized the company takeout the overhead that was hard to shakeout as you’re all aware so we’re laser focused on so I think on the other hand we continue to investment sales capacity and you see that reflecting thing like card sales and home equity sales and auto loan sales direct auto loans sales are increased.
So don’t expect another new program with the expense targets is more of a day-to-day perspective now? No remember we absorb if you think 50% of our cost being people cost and you think of inflationary level of cost increase of the 3% on this.
Basically a key cost down and flattish you got to work your tail off and whether and that’s a sort of process going forward we’ve to drop a cost down again to the reasonable level we’ll continue to make improvement relative to revenues and the rules get different we’ll then have to revisit it but right now in this revenue environment the slow growth environment we can keep the cost while as revenue start to rise.
Then a separate question: what are your key financial targets for 2015? I know you've expressed some of your targets assuming interest rates increase.
But if interest rates don't increase what should investors evaluate you on at the end of 2015? All I had to go on without the higher interest rates is page 42 of the proxy that talks about the PRSUs.
It says as long as you get over a 50 basis point ROA you go in the money on the PRSUs.
So I'm not sure if I should be looking at the 50 basis point number or its 80 basis points 100% in the money or the 1% number that you've talked about before.
But again assuming rates don't go up what's your ROA and ROE target for 2015? Mike you don’t get specific projections but our goal is to continue to take [indiscernible] level this quarter and driving forward and our view is that based on everything we see as we see the impact of all the work we’re doing plus the rollover to cost base the reduction of LAS cost the litigation falling back to kinds of level you saw this quarter you do see this move towards that those long term goals of 1% ROA and 12% return of ample common equity.
One last try that 1% and 12% that assumes higher interest rates.
If your forecasts do not expect higher interest rates as soon as they do right now at what point would you take additional action with expenses? And how do you think about that? We take additional action expenses every afternoon.
In other words we had 4 000 reductions FVA in the fourth quarter of 2014 Mike that was a core franchise to keep getting efficient.
So we work on expenses every day and we’ve teams of people working to do all things that you expect us to do.
Two questions Brian I'm a little bit confused about the card growth.
I think you said you got 1.2 million new cards out in the fourth quarter.
Is that -- and didn't you mention something about it being seasonal? You've got lots of ground that you can gain in that business and I just want to clarify whether this is something extraordinary going on here and what your projections are for the future for growth there? Yes Nancy sorry if we confused you let’s talk about the production of new cards unit that’s the one 1.84 million to look at Page 19 you can see it building from the fourth quarter '12 830 million 830 000 so the first is production of units and the second was balances balances in card disrupt in the fourth quarter almost $3 billion net to $3 billion that we got to careful because Christmas people even spend on borrowing and it pay down.
So the point there is that will seasonal how to -- but if you look back in prior quarters we’ve seen a stability in our card balances which is continues on more units the people continue to use the card we don’t expect the positive growth there.
But its units 1.2 million balance is good 2.5 billion to 3 billion and the balance is [indiscernible] seasonality unit then above 1 million new production units each quarter of the last several quarters.
Is there one particular card that's proving to be very popular? I see your ads for the cash-back cards etc.
Is that the card of choice at this point? Yes in fact that is our core card offering.
We’ve simplified our offering to three or four core products and that’s the biggest one and it’s contributing to sort of card income being up year-over-year by about 7% and so it’s card selling well and the good news is we see is 67% came through basically our web online sales process and our branch sales process in the core customer so we continue to drive that.
Okay.
Secondly the 25% margin in Wealth Management I think back to the old days when you had much fatter margins in that business.
What do you see as a normalized margin in Wealth Management? Number two to what impact is the Wealth Management margin being maybe impacted by high liquidity levels that customers are maintaining? And do you see that changing? I’d say a couple of things and I think the first is that we’ve said that over the course of the couple of years that we need that wealth management margin to get to 30% I think you’ve got a couple of things going on right now in the low rate environment that business has an artificial drag because as you know you don’t tend to payout compensation which is a significant portion of the expense to those things that are net interest income related.
So we would expect we also have in 2016 some deferred comp and other programs running off.
So as we go through over the course of the next couple of years between the business growing normalization of rate environment and some other things that should be a 30% type pre-tax margin business.
I think we’re through all the questions.
So thank you very much for joining us and we’ll look forward to speak in next quarter.
This concludes today’s program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Bank of America Earnings Announcement Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode but later you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
Please note that this call is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks to everyone on the phone as well as webcast for joining us this morning for the first quarter results.
Hopefully everybody had a chance to review the earnings release documents that are available on the website.
Before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make forward-looking statements.
For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents our website or other SEC filings.
So with that let me turn it over to Brian Moynihan our CEO for some opening comments before Bruce goes through the details.
Brian? Thank you Lee.
And good morning and welcome everyone to the earnings call for our first quarter of 2015.
I am going to start on slide two.
So the highlights are there.
We earned $3.4 billion after tax in the quarter which is up both on a linked quarter and year-over-year basis.
We continue to work to drive growth in all our core businesses.
We will begin to see it overcome the runoff at non-core portfolios in many areas.
At the same time we continue to focus on managing expenses carefully.
As a result we’ve begin to see more predictable earnings with more improvement expected ahead.
Both capital and liquidity remained at record levels in our company.
We expect to return more capital to shareholders this year than we have in the past.
Revenue on adjusted bases was $21.9 billion for the quarter.
From the top of the house revenues remains challenging in an environment with below trend economic growth and rate environment which comes from that.
In addition we remained faithful to our customer’s strategy with strong risk management and risk appetite to ensure we do not repeat the outsized credit losses of the past.
With that said we are seeing our core business stabilizing across the drivers of the revenue.
This quarter we saw continued growth in our Wealth Management revenues and rebounds in the fourth quarter in trading revenues.
In our loan and deposit areas we saw continued core growth albeit subject to continued spread contraction.
Our expense management efforts continue.
Year-over-year expenses excluding litigation costs are down 6% including litigation costs year-over-year expenses are down 30%.
We continue to see our efficiency efforts drive forward beyond new BAC through our simplified and improved program.
We also continue to see progress on LAS expense.
As proof of our efforts for the quarter we ended with our headcount at 200 -- little under 220 000 full time employees a reduction of 4 000 employees for the quarter about 2% and 19 000 employees year-over-year or 8%.
For the quarter this reduction came to about 35% from LAS and about 65% from the rest of the company.
To put it in a broad context we are approaching employment levels where we were in early 2008 prior to bringing over -- in over 100 000 people from Countrywide and Merrill acquisitions.
We are doing that through the investments we are making in technology to reduce costs and they continue to take hold and we will continue to drive this effort even as economy continues to improve and rates raise helping keep balance to our operating leverage.
During the last year even though we are reducing those costs and headcount we continue to invest in the client facing growth capacity in this company.
We have added financial advisors in U.S.
Trusts and in Merrill Lynch focused on building for the future.
We have added commercial bankers in all our Global Banking areas to help fill in our franchise.
We have added new financial centers in areas of opportunity and we continue to invest in products and innovation as well as efficiency.
A simple example in our Consumer Mobile Banking space we now have 70 million mobile banking customers up over 2 million from last year.
Turning to slide three you can see what we simply need to do.
Each of the four core lines of businesses on the left hand part of the slide earned above our cost-of-capital for this quarter.
In addition the aggregate earnings for all those businesses were $4.4 billion after tax.
The LAS segment had a much smaller loss this quarter showing we are making progress.
The other area on the right hand of the slide effected this quarter by the impacts of retirement eligible incentive costs in the market related NII adjustment which affect the top of the house earnings.
They booked their distributed business over the quarters what that shows that we need to keep working LAS to get it to breakeven and the other will take care of itself in subsequent quarters.
Turning to slide four with regard to CCAR.
As previously disclosed we received a conditional non-objection to our capital plan.
We received the approval for our request to capital actions that we request in our original submission a dividend of $0.05 per share and $4 billion of stock repurchase on the relevant periods.
As you can see the cushion we have increased from about $2 billion last year under the tightest constraint to over $22 billion this year in both those cases under the tightest constraint after all capital actions.
These quantitative results bode well.
However the conditional approval is an area with which we are focusing.
We will focus our energy for the September resubmission and beyond.
Our efforts are well underway.
We are bringing additional resources to task.
We simply have to be the best at CCAR to meet our shareholder objectives and our company.
To ensure that we achieve that success I’d have asked Terry Laughlin to lead our efforts.
As many of you know Terry helped us clear up the mortgage issues over the last several years.
I can assure you that our Board management are extremely focused on our resubmission and our core process improvement for CCAR 2016 next year.
Terry has retained the team external experts increase internal staffing to ensure we are successful.
We’ve had in-depth discussion with our regulators regarding the particulars specified issues that we need to re-immediate with the resubmission and we are focused on getting that done by September.
With that I’ll turn now over to Bruce.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I am going to start on slide five.
As Brian mentioned we recorded $3.4 billion of earnings in the first quarter or $0.27 per diluted share.
That compares to $0.25 a share in the fourth quarter of 2014 and a loss of $0.05 if we go back to the first quarter of 2014.
I’d like to note a few items as you review these results.
Both first quarter periods include $1 billion in expense for the annual cost of retirement eligible incentives awarded.
This was $0.06 in EPS impact in each of the first quarter periods.
The first quarter of 2015 also includes a negative market related adjustments to net interest income of $484 million for the acceleration of bond premium amortization on our debt securities that’s driven by lower long-term rates.
That costs us $0.03 in EPS during the quarter.
The other large item that’s worth noting as you look at the comparisons is the outsized litigation amount of $6 billion in the first quarter of 2014.
I’d like to spend just a moment on total revenue comparisons our first quarter of 2015 revenue on an FTE basis.
If we exclude the market-related adjustment to NII and a small DVA adjustment was $21.9 billion during the quarter.
If we compared that to the fourth quarter of 2014 and adjust for the same items revenue is up $1.7 billion or 8% and that 8% increase is attributable to rebound in sales and trading results as well as higher Mortgage Banking income and is offset somewhat by lower net interest income mostly from two fewer days during the quarter.
If we compare back to the first quarter of ’14 and we further adjust for $800 million in equity investment gains as a result of monetizing a single strategic investment in a year ago period revenue is down a couple $100 million or 1% and that’s from lower net interest income and lower sales and trading results.
Total non-interest expense during the quarter was $15.7 billion and included the $1 billion in retirement eligible costs as well as $370 million in litigation expense.
I will go through that the comparisons from an expense perspective several slides back.
As we look at provision for credit losses during the quarter they were $765 million and included $429 million in reserve release versus $660 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Preferred dividends during the first quarter were $382 million and as you all looked to update your models given the preferred issuances that we have had the majority of which paid semiannually as you look at preferred dividends they should be roughly $330 million in the second and fourth quarters and $440 million in the first and third quarters going forward based on our existing preferred footprint.
Let’s go ahead and move to slide six on the balance sheet our balance sheet was up slightly to $2.14 trillion and that was driven almost exclusively by cash balances associated with the deposit growth that we saw during the quarter.
We continued our focus on balance sheet optimization for the liquidity as we continue to shift some of our discretionary portfolio first lien loans into HQLA eligible securities.
Loans on a period end basis were down modestly reflecting good core loan activity in both our Global Banking as well as our Wealth Management segments that was more than offset by seasonally lower cad balances in our discretionary consumer real estate area as well as runoff portfolios.
Deposits were up $34 billion or 3% from the end of the year and some of that obviously I have to do with seasonal tax activity.
We issued $3 billion of preferred stock in the quarter that benefited regulatory capital and as you look at common shareholders’ equity you can see it improved driven both by earnings growth as well as improved OCI.
As a result of those factors tangible book value increased to $14.79 7% higher than 12 months ago and our tangible common equity ratio improved to 7.5%.
The last point that I would note is that we did add a slide in the appendix as we updated our capital allocations across the segments coming into 2015 and the returns that we show you are reflective of those updated capital allocations.
Let’s go ahead and flip to slide seven and go through loans from several calls we are asked frequently about the decline in reported loans which are down modestly again from the fourth quarter levels as you can see in the upper left hand chart.
I want to make a few points though as we go through this as we have discussed many times much of the movement in loans has been driven by two pieces of non-core loans.
The first relates the shift in our discretionary mortgage loans levels that are used to manage interest rate risks and predominantly recorded in the all other units.
Many times based on the investment decisions that we make these loans are replaced with debt securities on the balance sheet.
The other component as you look at loans to consider is the runoff that we have within our LAS unit which are mostly home equity loans.
If the home equity loans go away it enables us to reduce our operating costs as we have less work to do.
As you can see over the past five quarters these non-core loans have declined approximately $59 billion.
If you adjust for that $59 billion though and I will go that upper right hand box you can see they are actually -- our loans have actually increased by $21 billion from the first quarter of 2014.
Bottom chart on this slide provides the mix of this loan growth across our primary businesses and you can see within our Wealth Management area we have experienced strong demand in both consumer real estate as well as securities base lending and that’s led to year-over-year loan growth within that segment of 10%.
Within Global Banking we saw modest growth on a year-over-year basis.
But importantly we saw a significant pickup in activity in the first quarter of ’15 relative to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Over that timeframe loans were up $6.7 billion or 8% on an annualized basis.
If we move to slide eight and take a look at regulatory capital this quarter the Standardized transition reporting includes the switch from reporting RWA under the general risks based approach to Basel 3 and the capital number includes another year of phase-in for capital deductions.
With those changes our CET1 ratio was 11.1% in 2015 under the new reporting.
If we go ahead and look at Basel 3 regulatory capital on our fully phase-in basis our CET1 capital improved $6 billion during the quarter and was driven by earnings lower DTA lower threshold deductions as well as an improvement in AOCI.
That translated under the Standardized approach to our CET1 ratio improving from 10% in the fourth quarter to 10.3% in the first quarter of ’15 while under the advanced approaches the CET1 ratio improved from 9.6% to 10.1%.
As you know from our 10-K disclosure we are working with our banking regulators to obtain approval of our models in order to exit parallel run a regulators have requested modification to certain commercial and other credit models in order to exit parallel run which we estimate will increase our advanced approaches RWA and negatively impact the CET1 ratio that we show here by approximately 100 basis points.
If we look at supplementary leverage we estimate that at the end of the first quarter of ’15 we continue to exceed the U.S.
rules applicable in 2018.
Our bank holding company SLR ratio was 6.3% and our primary banking subsidiary BANA we were at 7%.
We turn to slide 9 long-term debt.
At the end of the first quarter was $238 billion down $5 billion from the fourth quarter of 2014.
In the lower left box you can see that from a maturity profile perspective we have $16 billion of parent company debt that matures during the balance of ‘15 and will be opportunistic as it relates to refinancing that indebtedness.
Our global excess liquidity sources reached a record level of $478 billion this quarter and now represents 22% of the overall balance sheet.
The increase from the fourth quarter reflects the deposit inflows as well as the shift from discretionary loans in the HQLA securities.
Within the liquidity our parent company liquidity remains quite strong at $93 billion and our time to require funding is at 37 months.
During the quarter we did continue to increase our liquidity coverage ratios at both the parent as well as at the bank levels.
And at the end of the first quarter we estimate that our consolidated company was well above the 100% fully phased-in 2017 LCR requirement.
On slide 10 net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $9.7 billion down $200 million from the fourth quarter of ‘14 driven by two fewer interest accrual days during the quarter as well as some spread compression.
If we exclude the previously mentioned market-related adjustment NII of $10.2 billion was largely in line with our expectations and lower than the fourth quarter of ‘14 given two fewer interest accrual days.
Modest improvements net interest income mostly from lower funding cost in the quarter were offset by some of the continued pressures that we saw in loans securities yields as well as balances in new assets coming in at lower long-term rates.
This drove the adjusted net interest yield to 2.28%.
If we look at the movement down in rates during the quarter our balance sheet did become more asset sensitive compared to year end such that 100 basis point parallel increase in rates from the end of the quarter would be expected to contribute roughly $4.6 billion in net interest income benefits over the next 12 months slightly more than half of that $4.6 billion is on the long end and just under half is based on the short end.
On slide 11 if we move to expenses non-interest expense was $15.7 billion in the first quarter of ‘15 and included roughly $370 million in litigation expense.
First quarter ‘15 once again did include $1 billion in annual retirement eligible incentive cost consistent with what we saw in the first quarter of 2014.
Litigation expense during the quarter included FX in RMBS items and was significantly below what we saw a year ago which included the cost of the FHFA settlement.
While we’re in litigation I do want to make sure that you notice this quarter that we did get one step closer on our Article 77 settlement as the appellate court approved the Bank of New York Mellon settlement in all respects.
And I would also note that the deadline for further appeal at this point has passed.
If we exclude litigation and retirement-eligible cost our total expenses were $14.3 billion this quarter down nearly $1 billion from the first quarter of ‘14 driven by three factors.
Continued progress on our LAS initiatives our New BAC cost savings as well as lower revenue-related incentives within Global Markets.
Relative to the fourth quarter ‘14 the expense level on an adjusted basis is up about a $0.5 billion on higher revenue related incentives mostly through the improved sales and trading results on a linked-quarter basis.
Our legacy assets and servicing cost ex litigation were $1 billion.
They improved approximately $100 million from the fourth quarter of 2014 in more than $500 million if we go back to the first quarter of 2014.
And we remain on track to hit our Q ‘14 target that we laid out for yield of $800 million in LAS cost ex litigation once again in the fourth quarter.
Beyond the LAS business our teams continue to do very good work in optimizing our delivery network as well as our infrastructure.
And as you can see headcount is down 8% over the course of the last 12 months.
If we look at asset quality on slide 12 reported net charge-offs were $1.2 billion in the first quarter versus $900 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
I do want to note that the first quarter of ‘15 included a net impact of approximately $200 million in losses associated with the DOJ settlement that was previously reserved for and that was offset in part by recoveries from certain NPL sales.
Our Q4 ‘14 included similar items but with the net adjustment positively benefiting net charge-off to the tune of about $163 million.
If we just follow these impacts our net charge-offs during the quarter were $1 billion which is slightly lower than what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our loss rates on the same adjusted basis were at about 47 basis points in the first quarter of ‘15 consistent with what we saw in the fourth quarter of ‘14 in both our consumer delinquencies as well as our NPLs decline from fourth quarter levels.
On the commercial front we did see a slight tick up in reservable criticized exposure in the fourth quarter of ‘14 as we bounce off comparatively low levels.
The first quarter of ‘15 provision expense was $765 million.
We released $429 million in reserves most of those reserve releases were in our consumer real estate portfolio while we did see a modest increase in reserves in the commercial space that was associated with the strong loan growth that we saw during the first quarter.
We could flip to slide 13 on Consumer Banking.
Hopefully last week we all saw and had a chance to review the filing of our recasted segment results.
We mentioned to you during the last earnings call that we made changes in segment reporting where we move the home loans into our Consumer Banking segment from CRES which left our legacy assets and servicing as a standalone segment.
We also moved the majority of business banking from Consumer Banking to the Global Banking segment which is how we manage the business.
All these changes have been made retroactively.
Let’s go ahead and walk through the business segment results starting on slide 13 with Consumer Banking.
The results showed solid bottomline performance with earnings of $1.5 billion which is up slightly from the year-ago quarter and down seasonally from the fourth quarter of ‘14 which tends to be a better consumer spending quarter.
Business generated a solid 21% return on allocated capital.
Total revenue was lower compared to the first quarter of ‘14 from a decline in net interest income.
Two thirds of that decline in NII was a result of pushing out in the allocation of the portion of the market related NII adjustment to deposits business.
Our non-interest income was stable compared to last year reflecting good growth in both mortgage banking as well as higher card income but was offset by the portfolio divestiture gain last year of roughly $100 million in the first quarter.
Expenses were managed tightly.
Non-interest expense declined from the fourth quarter of ‘14 as we continue to reduce our financial centers in the associated cost driven by consumer behavior patterns shifting to more digital.
The number of mobile banking customers continues to increase.
We ended the quarter at roughly $17 million and -- the activity from these customers accounts for roughly 13% of all deposit transactions.
On page 14 we’ve added some additional slides here to give you a sense to some of the trends that we’re seeing in the business in key drivers and see we remain a leader in many aspects of our consumer bank doing business with nearly half of all U.S.
households.
We look at fees compared to the first quarter of ‘14 part income was up modestly despite some affinity portfolio divestitures over the last year.
Our card issuance remains very strong.
Our balances did decline as our customers began to pay down holiday spend balance levels and our net charge-offs remain low at 2.8% and risk-adjusted margins remain high.
We move to mortgage banking income.
It was up 60% as originations for the company ramped up during the quarter.
Year-over-year first mortgage originations were up 55% to $13.7 billion while our home equity line and loan originations increased 62% to $3.2 billion.
Revenue improvement was driven by these increased volumes as well as the mix of first-lien origination that was 76% weighted towards overall refinance activity.
And looking forward the pipeline remains strong up 50% from the end of the year.
Moving to service charges service charges were down versus the fourth quarter of ‘14.
This fee line continues to be muted as more of our customers take advantage of our work plans in our opening accounts with higher balances.
We also continue to reduce the number of less profitable account serviced and migrate customer activity to more self service channels.
As a result we are getting the same or slightly better account fees and debit interchange from fewer accounts which is allowing us to reduce our infrastructure.
Expense is declining.
And if you look at cost of deposits it’s dropped from just less than 2% in the fourth -- excuse me -- in the first quarter of ‘14 to 1.87% in the first quarter of ‘15.
And lastly as you can see while we are bringing down our overall headcount in this business I want to note that we’ve been increasing our sales specialist in the financial centers and their sales are driving client balance is higher.
For example our deposits were up 5% from the first quarter of ‘14 and our brokerage assets were up 18%.
We move to slide 15 wealth management.
It generated earnings of $651 million during the quarter.
We compared this with the fourth -- with the first quarter of 2014 with a $78 million decline.
It’s the solid fee growth that we saw during the quarter was offset by lower net interest income and higher expense.
Once again the allocation of the market related NII adjustment drove the decline in NII which more than offset the benefits that we saw from solid loan growth.
Our asset management fees continue to grow driven by strong client flows and higher market levels.
Our non-interest expense increased from the first quarter of ‘14 as a result of higher revenue related incentives as well as investments in client-facing professionals.
Our pre-tax margin was down 23% down last year largely impacted by the decline in net interest income.
Return on allocated capital remains strong at 22%.
We look at the activity in drivers within Wealth Management on slide 16.
You can see our asset management fees continue to grow and are up 10% from the first quarter of 2014.
But this is partially offset by some of the sluggishness that we’ve seen in transactional revenue within the brokerage line.
We do continue to be an employer of choice in this business increasing financial advisors by more than 850 individuals over the course of the last 12 months.
Our client balances climbed to over $2.5 trillion up $12 billion from the fourth quarter of ‘14 driven by strong client balance inflows.
Long-term AUM flows of $15 billion for the quarter were positive for the 23rd consecutive quarter.
And as I mentioned earlier when we discussed loans we continue to experience strong demand in both our securities base and residential mortgage lending areas of the business reaching a new record level in loans during the quarter.
On slide 17 our Global Banking earnings during the quarter were $1.4 billion which generated a 16% return on allocated capital.
Earnings were up 6% from the first quarter of ‘14 as the decline in net interest income was more than offset by lower expense as well as improved provision expense.
As we look at NII the year-over-year decline was driven by three things the allocation of the market related to NII adjustments which I have touched on in previous segments the push-out of the firm-wide LCR requirements a good chunk of which goes to Global Banking as well as some year-over-year compression in loan spreads.
Our provision expense was lower than the first quarter of ‘14 by $185 million as we did not build reserves to the same magnitude as we did in the first quarter of last year.
Non-interest expense was down 8% from the first quarter of ‘14 driven by three factors lower technology initiative spend lower litigation as well as lower incentive costs.
Moving to the Global Banking metrics on page 18 we chart the components of revenue which shows stability across the quarters with the exception of NII as I just mentioned.
Our investment banking fees companywide during the quarter were $1.5 billion down 4% from the first quarter of 2014.
I would highlight during the quarter we recorded the highest level of advisory fees since the Merrill merger up 50% from the first quarter of 2014.
This helped offset the drop that we saw within our leveraged finance business as a result of the regulatory guidance that was implemented during the first half of 2014.
Equity underwriting was also up nicely up 10% from the first quarter of 2014.
And as you look at the balance sheet loans on average were $290 billion up modestly on a year-over-year basis.
But if you look linked quarter as I mentioned earlier we had a fair bit of momentum ending the first quarter with balances up $7 billion on a spot basis from the fourth quarter of ’14.
$7 million improvement was broad-based.
We saw middle-market utilization rates at levels that we’ve not seen for six years at this point so we feel good about that and within commercial real estate we saw a linked quarter improvement as well.
On slide 19 Global Markets we earned $945 million on revenues and $4.6 billion in the quarter leveraging 11% return on allocated capital during the quarter.
Our earnings were up nicely from the fourth quarter of ’14 but down from the first quarter as our revenue was down 7% excluding net DVA and FVA.
The decline from the first quarter of ’14 was driven by lower fixed sales -- excuse me lower fixed sales and trading results.
On the expense front non-interest expense was modestly higher year-over-year as we had $260 million in litigation expense in the quarter.
Ex-litigation expenses were down 7% on reduced levels of revenue related incentives.
We look at the Global Markets metrics on slide 20.
Sales of trading revenue of $3.9 billion ex-DVA and FVA as I mentioned was up nicely from our fourth quarter of ’14 levels but down 5% from the first quarter of ’14.
Fixed sales and trading was down 7% on a year-over-year basis while equities was effectively flat with the year ago period.
Within the macro-related product areas like FX and rates there was a solid return in volatility in client trading activity in the quarter while the credit spreads traded products areas experienced lower activity in line with lower issuance levels during the quarter.
And as you look at and we layout a mix between macro and credit in the upper box upper right hand box and you can see that our activity tends to be more heavily weighted towards credit spread trading given the position that we occupy within the issuer market.
And the last point I would make our markets our asset levels were fairly flat while VaR was below the level that we experienced last year.
Slide 21 Legacy Assets &amp; Servicing you can see we saw improvement in revenue and expense trends compared to both periods within legacy assets and servicing.
The loss in this segment narrowed to less than $240 million.
Revenue improved as both rep and warrant was down $156 million from the year ago period and we had a more favorable MSR hedge performance.
Those two factors were partially offset by lower servicing fees as we continue to reduce the servicing portfolio.
Non-interest expense ex-litigation was a $1 billion in the quarter once again improving approximately $100 million from the fourth quarter and more than $500 million since the first quarter of ’14.
Importantly our 60 plus days delinquent loans were 153 000 units that were down 36 000 units or 19% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
We move to slide 22 All Other.
All Other reflects a loss of $841 million and that includes once again the impact of the annual retirement eligible incentive costs as well as some of the market-related NII impact.
If we compare this quarter to the first quarter of ’14 revenues lowered by about $683 million and that was driven by nearly $700 million in equity investment gains in the first quarter of ’14 compared to essentially nothing in the first quarter of ’15.
And it was partially offset as well by the absence of payment protection loss this quarter compared to about a $141 million in the prior year quarter.
From a modeling perspective the effective tax rate during the quarter was about 29% and as we look out during the balance of 2015 we would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% absent any unusual items.
So I would just wrap up the prepared part of my comments that as we end the quarter we end the quarter with record capital.
We end the quarter with record liquidity.
We’ll begin our $4 billion share repurchase program this quarter.
The team’s very focused on addressing our CCAR submission.
Expense management remains a key focus across the company.
Our businesses are showing good activity including a pick up in lending across several businesses and the company credit quality remains strong and we remain well positioned to benefit in a rising interest rate environment.
And with that we’ll go ahead and open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks very much.
So Brian very impressive commentary in the beginning of the call on headcount getting back to ’08 levels before CFC and the Merrill Lynch acquisitions.
The one question we get continually from investors is what’s left to do on the expenses and you’ve already got the core expense number coming into the $13 billion range.
So can you give us some sense as to where you go from here on expense management and is it steady as she goes or is there room to become even more efficient? Couple of things.
One is that if you parse expenses Betsy into three basic buckets the litigation expense bucket which you are seeing come down to more reasonable levels and then there is a cost of that litigation and the external legal fees and stuff which will continue to see lift in which is in the expense numbers.
Then you have the second bucket LAS worth a billion level and as Bruce said we would expect to get down to $800 million and keep moving at to lower numbers over into ’16.
And then given the baseline and I think the thought on the baseline is even as we reduce the headcount we continued to reinvest in sales capacity.
So just in our consumer business headcount is down year-over-year but we have a thousand more sales people roughly out there selling.
And so the idea is to continue to drive sales people into the businesses.
At the same time we’ve taken our wealth management et cetera.
So when you think about the broad expense base there is adjustments always in the first quarter second quarter just because of revenue and stuff in terms of the aggregate amount.
But we will continue to pare way.
You can look linked quarter -- year-over-year quarters over the last four years we continued to chip away.
This year it was 300 on the core base.
We will continue to work at that.
But I would say that a lot of it we are trying to make sure that we create the investment rate and continue to grow the franchises and their size.
This is a matter of holding these expenses relatively flat as revenues start to pick up with the expected increase in rates in economy continue to grow.
As that change we have to go aggressively and push down the core also.
And so we manage it everyday and you can see the headcounts leading indicator because that headcount reduction in the quarter really benefits us in the second quarter.
Got it.
And then just separate topic on GWIM and maybe you could give us some commentary around how you are thinking about the impact of the fiduciary language that’s been coming out of the Department of Labor? And also how you deal with the competitive threats coming from Silicon Valley including some of the robo-advisor efforts? On the first question John Thiel who runs Merrill Lynch for us where largely we are affected by the discussion on fiduciary standards.
Remember U.S.
Trust is actually a private bank and operates into the fiduciary standard and most of its activity.
So John Thiel does the lead in our business does great job for us and has been clear.
We believe that doing what’s in the best interest of the customer is absolutely the right thing to do.
And while this rule has just come out yesterday afternoon and frankly Betsy to get prepared for your questions this morning I have spent a lot of time examining into detail.
But from a basic standpoint we’ve been clear that that’s we see the industry moving and we expect lot of movement there.
On the robo-advisor I think that the clear segment match for us in that area in terms of what Schwab and other people have talked about is really in the Merrill Lynch business which is below the Merrill Lynch cut-off a lot of their return.
So John and his team drive people to $150 000 in investable assets free to invest which is net worth of a $0.5 million in the upper range of the client and Dean Athanasia and his preferred team drive the business below that.
And if you look in our information you will see that that business has got about $118 billion of both which assets are growing faster than the industry.
Year-over-year I think the assets were up 18%.
The number of accounts of the sales levels were up and so that’s really the automated rebalancing portfolios and stuff like that and we are driving that through as a core execution.
And by the way they also refer tens of thousands of customers a year up to Merrill Lynch at the same time.
So we are trying to have the best of both worlds.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’ve been a leader there so appreciate that color.
Thanks.
And we can take our next question from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Any sense of when we get a clear picture on the final impact of exiting parallel run? Should we just assume the 100 basis point hit that you mentioned a done deal or is there a potential to be less than that? Yes.
I think what we wanted to disclose Matt is that I think they were coming out of the disclosure that we had in the K.
There were a lot of questions and you are absolutely right that what we disclosed today was the requested amount from our banking regulators to exit parallel run that was the outcome.
We have discussions continue but we did want to put out there what the ask was.
Okay.
In terms of timing of -- a conclusion on that? I think those things are always hard to predict but we are obviously working hard to get through it over the next quarter or so.
Okay.
And just related I mean obviously capital build was very good this quarter of 50 basis points.
So you essentially got half of that already but assuming that 100 basis point hit goes through are there additional kind of RWA levers to pull model adjustments in the future that we can think about? Yeah.
You asked a very good question which is that -- to the extend that there is an adjustment in the RWA you obviously as you look to refine and improve your models always have the ability to work hard to get that back if there is obviously a lot of scrutiny with respect to models.
But your point is spot on is that there would be the opportunity as we work through and look to refine improve and become better with our models to get some of that back over time.
And Matt in the broader context we have flipped the binding constraint in our company to some degree with the move to advance and so therefore you continue to look at the balance sheet what makes the businesses and how you approach the businesses changes again to standardize with the constraint we are focused on.
And with our binding constraint now it’s going to flip to advance as you can see in the numbers and that bend is -- you expect us to be as aggressive and in depth at thinking through how we mix the businesses right to make sure that we are focused on that constraint now has become a binding rule.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
On your legacy asset servicing -- in your discussions you said that the loans went down from 36 000 loans in the quarter.
Did you sell any loans in the quarter? There was some servicing of loans that was moved as well as the outright sale of some non-performing loans.
So there was some inorganic activity but as you look at those reductions it was very strong from both organic as well as inorganic.
And I would say the other thing that we are seeing Paul is just less new delinquencies coming in than we what we would have expected.
So you’ve got the benefit of less coming in.
You’ve got the benefit of working through some of what you have and then we are supplementing that with moving additional out.
Yeah.
And one of the things out there is what we are seeing or hearing is that there is a strong market right now for people wanting to buy either re-performing or non-performing loans.
Are you going to use that as an advantage to start moving the stuff off your books quicker? We have been using as an advantage.
If you go back and look at the results I think we were one of the first out there that started to move those loans in the first half of 2014.
We’ve been aggressively doing that both to take the risk of the loans off as well as to move the servicing.
And I think as if you look at the impact of that and how it flows through different things you really get a good sense Paul when you look at some of the CCAR results where the loss content that we have particularly within both first mortgages as well as home equity has come down.
So we have been at that for some time at this point.
Paul I think overall remember as you get further and further remove from the crisis what’s leftover or even though at the time when we said fairly answer that some of these non-core portfolios would have been a product to service you did want to continue seven years later you are seeing the customers are left over to paid.
And so there is a good bid but also we want to make sure we measure the economics of the portfolios.
Now they are much smaller.
The risk is way down.
And so we judge that really on the basis of who the customer is and whether we want to sort of roam into core loans in our company and then also what the economics the outside are.
So I wouldn’t expect us to change our course there whether its look opportunistically we had to keep move in the right direction on both servicing and that’s that we own too because remember Paul there is also servicing side to this even though we don’t own the asset.
There is a strong bid.
Even the agencies are moving to move some portfolios.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And we can take our next question from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to follow up on the capital discussion.
You guys had pretty good progress on the advanced approach of 50 basis points quarter-over-quarter but the gap between standardized and advanced is still very large.
And I guess if you have to go through with the 400 basis points that I guess about 120 basis point gap versus your peers that are less than half that.
I guess is the big difference operational risk because of the larger litigation you faced over the last couple of years? And how do we think about that coming down and getting more in line with the peers? Is that just a time sort of as you get further away that like those op risk come down or how else do we think about the trajectory of the closing of the gap? No.
Your point is exactly right which is that as we talked about last quarter that the op risk relative to the total advanced startup was upwards of 30%.
That’s obviously higher than our peers.
It’s something that we are working hard on to be able to drive down.
And to your point the question is when you’re able to get benefit from declining litigation trend as we wrap up the legacy matters and that does take some time.
Obviously the last two quarters from litigation perspective have been much lighter than what we experienced going back several years.
So it’s up to us to continue to work that and to look to convince people that the level of op risk capital should come down given the resolution of the matters.
And I would just highlight that once again whether you look at Article 77 there was an Ocala litigation matter that was wrapped up as well as on the RMBS front with settlements that we got through this quarter were roughly 99% of all threatened or filed litigation with respect to RMBS.
So we continue to work through that and drive through that.
And ultimately the benefit from that should be lower op risk capital from an RWA perspective.
Right.
And sorry is that sort of a negotiation process on the models with regulators or is it could it be sort of a step function or is it really just time value as you move further away? I am just trying to understand the process.
I think in all these cases clearly that we work closely with our supervisors on all model related activity.
And as you look to make changes that are to the good you obviously need to work through your regulators to get those put through.
So I think as we think forward remember you saw a good capital built this quarter and we will continue to build.
But remember that we keep on the course of earnings that we expect and the issue was in CCAR last year when we asked you had to remember we came off a really low just nominal earnings environment.
And so we came with a lot of capital between now and next time.
We’ve been asked to change the capital position of the company and we have a big cushion.
So we will close this gap relatively quickly.
And then we have a longer-term question of what you are saying which is as op risk runs off how do you get that reflected all coming your capital requirements and same with the models and the other side.
Right at to your point the stress test is based on standardized not advanced? Yes.
But just one quick follow-up elsewhere on the FICC revenues just can you talk about the trajectory over the quarter did it improve in March? It sounded like some of your peers talked about a slow start to get any better in March or how do we think about the trajectory to the quarter? I am always hesitant to comment on results given that we are nine days into a new quarter.
But I think if you look at what we saw from both I would say both a sales and trading as well as an overall investment banking fee perspective the January and the margin was a little bit slower than what was expected.
And we saw activity and momentum build up throughout the quarter to where if you had to grade which is three months to the quarter.
If you feel best about it was clearly March.
And like I said we are only nine trading days into the new quarter.
But we’ve not seen anything change directionally some of the activity that we saw in March we’ve continued to see in April.
Okay.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And we can take our next question from Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
A quick question on proposal eight in the proxy I mean I don’t think the regulators wanted to happen I don’t think it should happen I assume you have been doing a lot of the work on this along the way for last couple of years.
But curious why the Board is so against shareholders voting it for and what you actually have to do if it does get the yes vote? Well I think as I think you read the response in the proxy Glenn you will see this is a core Board duty and they do look at it periodically and think about the optimal company structure capital structure.
So the idea to have a special element around it is really the whole Board looks at it and that’s you should look at it so.
And then the technical terms of the what the request is or little hard to understand when you think about how company really operates but we do look at the question of do we have the optimal business mix is it optimal from shareholders and the Board will look at it continuously and we will continue to look at.
Okay.
I appreciate the comments you made on the increased asset sensitivity.
And if I remember the numbers correctly it sounds like more of the increased sensitivity came out on the long end.
So I guess my question is it’s great you make a lot more money at the current shifts of 100 basis points but I think a lot of people are more fearful of what happens if we get into a flattener environment.
So is it as simply as you capture at least half the benefit short rates going up and if you are in the flattener that’s where then? I think couple of things Glenn.
First is that we are coming -- in many respects we were 35 36 at the end of the year we went to 45 46 this quarter.
Keep in mind a chunk of what you see as far as becoming more asset sensitive is just the FAS 91 that we lost during the quarter.
So keep that in mind.
And to your point you are exactly right if you looked out where we were at year end I think we were just over in the 21 to 22 benefit from short rates moving and that has not changed materially.
So to your point the asset sensitivity is based almost solely on long-term rates and given the deltas that we saw change from the end of the year to the end of the first quarter.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jon McDonald with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bruce.
Just to follow up on that in terms of if rates kind of stay pretty flat what kind of outlook would you have for the core NII if we take the 10.2 this quarter as a jumping off point? Do you have any room to lower the debt cost from here or how would you expect the core NII to trend if we don’t see too much move in rates? We spent a lot of time on Jon.
We got at the end of the first quarter we looked at and said during the balance of 2015 what’s the impact that we would see if in effect we rolled the spot throughout 2015 which just means that you don’t get the benefit of the curve as we go through.
And if you look at that it’s roughly a couple hundred million dollars a quarter relative to $10 billion of NII.
So we think that we’ve done between the debt footprint deposits.
And if you actually look at the clean yields during the quarter Q4 to Q1 that we have done a pretty good job of managing this exposure in what’s been a tough environment.
But to your question there is probably a couple hundred million dollars a quarter and risk if you roll the spot.
Got it.
Okay.
And that couple hundred million over a couple of quarters right? It is up 200 per quarter over the next three quarters.
Got it.
And that’s just kind of core leakage from new stuff coming on lower yields and you are not investing much in a low rate environment? That’s correct.
And continue to shorten the balance sheet every time.
Okay.
And then just switching gears for this on the credit side do you see the net charges-off kind of bouncing around a $1 billion per quarter level or is there room for those to come down or is that kind of stabilizing and how should we think about reserve releases from here relative to the 400 or so you did this quarter? Yes.
Couple of things.
And we continue to see Jon if you look at the -- within the consumer space and overall consumer credit the first quarter typically all other things being equal is the toughest consumer quarter in the first quarter.
So I think there is probably a little bit of room there if we continue to see what we see in the economy on the consumer side.
The tougher piece of it’s probably to judge commercial because outside of what we see in the small business lending there really haven’t been many charge-offs and we will just have to see how long that benign environment covers.
On the reserve release for the quarter what they want to make sure that we point out that while we release 400 plus of reserves 200 of that was from the DOJ where with the mailings you had both charge-offs and reserve release.
So as it relates to just from a -- as you look at the provision perspective realize that which impacted the provisions more like 200.
Okay.
So that should be some at least the jumping off points more like a 200 reserve release number? Yes.
And I think we said that we clearly expect reserve releases to moderate.
So a lot to see as we roll into the quarters.
But I think you are directionally right on your charge-off number and we will see if there is anything left in the reserve releases as we go through the second and third quarters.
Okay.
Last quick thing for me.
In terms of rep and warrants the slide 26 not sure if you mentioned this already because there is a pickup in the claims the new claims this quarter showed a big increase.
Just what’s the driver of that while they will show up now and any color you can provide on whether that’s a concern or not? Yes.
I think you need to go down to and we laid out in the footnote but if you start up in the new claim trends if you recall there is the case going through where the statute of limitations on rep and warrant claims in the Ace case was found the statute was six years.
And if you look at the claims that you see up in the new claim trends you can see virtually all of those claims were in the pre 2005 through 2006 area.
So absent any tolling a good chunk of those are going to be time barred.
The other part that I would -- the other point that I would mention is if you go down to the footnote you can see that the vast majority of these claims were put in with no file worked on whatsoever or no individual loan work that was done.
So I think there continues to be obviously activity on that front but there is not a lot of work being done as those claims are being filed.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So Bruce I just wanted to touch on the preferreds for a moment.
So we saw that you completed another $3 billion of issuance in the quarter but seem as you are already at the 150 basis point target contemplated under Basel III whether it’s fair to assume that you are now full on perhaps at the moment and we shouldn’t expect any additional issuance? I think you are absolutely right that we’ve got the bucket filled up this quarter.
I think the only thing that’s out there is depending on exactly where we come out from an overall RWA perspective as we exit parallel run that beyond 2015 could there be a $2 billion more preferred sometime during ‘16 that’s a possibility.
But you’re absolutely right that based on where we are from an RWA perspective the buckets filled up.
So we don’t see much of any at all in ‘15 maybe a little bit in ‘16 but not much.
Excellent.
Thanks for clarifying that Bruce.
And I suppose that you mentioned RWA one thing I just wanted to clarify I believe it was relating to your response to Jim where you noted that for CCAR it only contemplate the standardized approach.
But I just wanted to know if that determination have been finalized since some are speculating that the advanced approach could be incorporated within the CCAR exam going forward? Yeah.
No there is an open question out there that you’re absolutely right that for the different CCAR submissions that went in 2015 that those submissions are against the standard ratios.
As an industry we just don’t know the answer.
If we’ll test under just standardized in CCAR 2016 or if advanced will be brought in that’s an open question that’s out there for the industry.
And do you have a sense at least for the moment as to what the impact will be on RWAs if they were to incorporate the advanced approach versus the standardized? I think if you look at the numbers you can see the difference that we have within our numbers as to advanced.
I think the open question that’s out there as you look at moving to advanced in a CCAR scenario is that under advanced you hold the capital for up risk.
And then there is the open question if you go to stress test under advanced what do you do with respect to CCAR in those up risk litigation type item.
And like I said that’s an open question for the industry.
Right.
But would it be fair to expect that because it is the advanced calculation is more procyclical in nature that the RWA is calculated under a period of stress would be higher versus the standardized? There is no question.
There is a procyclical class that does it.
That intuitively I think you’re right but it just until you understand exactly the completeness and the entire picture of what you’re looking at I just don’t want to speculate.
No.
Fair enough.
All right.
That’s it for me.
And thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the investments in brokerage services business.
The metrics continue to look very strong as far as assets gain but the growth rate on year-over-year basis looks like it slowed considerably.
Any context you can provide around revenue generation and is there a potential catch-up that we should see or expect going forward based on either markets or just activity levels? Let me -- from a high level that team has continued to invest in growth.
So there’s a couple of things driving that.
One is they’re adding more core advisor so in the last 12 months I think we added 120 experienced advisors and we added almost 900 total.
So in that there is a carry cost to bring those up but we’ve -- that's good for the future.
The second thing is there’s a little bit of the business mix issue which is that the investment management side of business continues to grow but we’ve seen weakness in the brokers transactional side as the business get reposition and that sort of year-over-year is enough to hit you.
And then third frankly is that the NII that Bruce point out earlier just the way we allocate and we won’t let businesses take an excuse for intercompany allocations.
But the way we allocate year-over-year a big chunk of the NII losses just to the way we allocate out the impact from the market and less NII.
Okay.
And then secondly just extending that to the other -- some of the other consumer fee lines your card income flattish in service charges down a bit is this customer behavior driven or an additional repositioning in there? And can you talk about growth expectations on the consumer side as well? Yes.
I think as Bruce talked about earlier if you think about the couple of broad things.
One is as we continue to drive to be the core checking account for households we’re seeing higher sales we’re seeing higher primary sales but with that comes less fees in a sense but the average balances are higher.
And so what you’re seeing is a lower -- the flattening of the fees charge on accounts overdraft and other fees while you see an increase in the consumer balances which in this environment were something that we worth a lot more as rates rise because these are core checking account.
So yeah there is some elements that how the business has been shipped and based on our priority of getting -- making sure that we just don’t have a lot of checking accounts we have a lot of core checking account and that has caused it.
So you’re seeing a far faster growth in balances and actually slight decline in total check accounts out there.
When you put debit fees and other fees plus the interest rates together which is a core checking revenue it’s actually a better picture.
But that’s kind of the story there.
On the credit card fees it’s -- basically we have absorbed most of the compression on the interchange at this point in the rebase we give.
So really year-over-year you had a bit of loss there because we added a divestiture of a big Affinity program two big Affinity program that hurt us.
And you should expect to see that a little bit more inline with our spending growth going forward which has done about 3% 4%.
Okay.
And then last one just Bruce you mentioned on the discretionary portfolio and the switch out to HQLA.
Can you give us a sense of just how much more of that mix shift we should expect or at some point you get to appoint where the loan portfolio finally starts to bottom out? I think a couple of things so that the shift to the discretionary portfolio you probably have about $5 billion of that in each of the second quarter and the third quarter of this year and at that point that work is done.
I would say as you look at just discretionary mortgage balances and what you’re seeing from a payments for the old stuff that was put within the investment portfolio you’re probably looking at before the new is that we put on within the business that you are in $10 billion to $14 billion type run-off in each of the next couple quarters realized all that net interest income doesn’t go away because there is reinvestment of that and there is new loans coming in.
But you do have probably two more quarters where we’ll move stuff into securities and obviously that does continue to be a runoff of that portfolio as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just one quick question on the legal expense that was incurred in this period are those issues now the FX and the RMBS are those issues now settled or are they ongoing? The RMBS piece I quoted there were both amounts and litigation for things that were settled as well as accruals during the quarter.
And once again Eric I will go back to that the -- from an RMBS perspective at this point we are 98% or 99% of threatened or filed claims on original UPB that we are through.
So that’s where we are with the RMBS.
With respect to the FX piece I think if you go back and look at to where we said that we were in October that we resolved the matter with the OCC.
The top-up that we saw in the quarter related to FX with respect to other banking regulators and the results.
So the resolution and we’re working through the final documentation of the civil piece of the overall FX work and that’s all included within the litigation reserve during the quarter.
Okay.
And so just to understand that last point the civil component is that with the DoJ or some other kind of authority? No.
It’s the civil piece with respect to a class action type matter not the DoJ.
I see.
Okay.
But that was contained within the accrual in this period.
That’s correct.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for the clarity.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
What are your financial targets for 2015 and 2016? So Mike as we said our goal is to continue to drive toward the 1% return on assets and depending on where we end up with capital between 7.5% and 8% tangible common equity ratio that we translate into 13 to down to 12 return on tangible common equity.
In this quarter we move to up to where we have our return on tangible common equity was 8%.
And so return on assets was 64 basis points so we serve two-thirds of the way to that goal.
And what timeframe do you expect to get there? Well I think if you adjust our earnings this quarter for a couple of things the FAS 123 the FAS 91 and then we continue to think of LAS normalizing.
You see us get close to that goal and that should happen between now and the end of ‘16 because we just keep chunking away at LAS as we described here.
So is that your specific financial targets to -- and what’s your target for 2015 when it comes to your financial metrics? Yeah.
Mike I think the way you ask that we especially have to give you our earnings estimates for ’15 and we just don’t do that.
But our targets long-term we’ve told you each time you asked us is a 1% return on assets and a 12% 13% return on tangible common equity based on what we think our tangible common equity ratio will settle out.
Okay.
I guess when I looked back at 2014 I ask myself the question did Bank America meet its financial targets? And I’ve trouble because I’m not sure that you have specific targets just for the year 2014 as opposed to your longer term targets? We made $4 billion in change last year against the expectation by unit you and your colleagues of -- I don’t know $15 billion that clearly did meet the financial targets to litigation we took last year.
Okay.
Let me just ask a separate question then.
Glenn Schorr brought a proposal in the proxy.
And I guess my reaction is why not give more information on the tradeoffs of the business model.
One of your competitors gave three slides on this topic at their investor day.
They weren’t asked to do this and they have some higher ROE and ROA.
So more information I think would be good.
And in the proxy it says that your Board believes that the proposal would not enhance stockholder value.
If that’s the conclusion of the Board just why not share some of the insights of the Board to investors? So the insights we have and you look at the returns on page two and three of the material show that the core businesses return above our cost of capital.
And that the mix between them and the revenue synergies and the diversity we get have been there but let’s backup.
A lot of people are looking at here Mike is can you simplify your company to make it tighter.
We started that in 2010 was about $2.5 billion and we are trading that as we are down to 2.1.
We started with about $7 billion in capital or $8 billion in capital up to $140 billion and we started by getting rid of the 60 operating businesses and so we’ve done a lot of implications.
What’s really left and this is one of the reason why our market business is more constrained its growth prospects potentially than some other peoples because we keep it to about a third of the franchise in terms of size.
And that market business is really focused on driving the value of our issuer side customers going to the market and then with our investor side customers providing sources of capital for that so it’s a very synergistic basis.
So we’ll continue to provide insight but if you look at it the businesses return of other cost of capital and then if we put them out there the question would be what we be look like after and we have capital we can’t deploy and we have less earnings powers.
All right.
But you can share additional insights into that conclusion in addition to what you just gave that would be great at least in the future.
Thanks a lot.
And we can take our next question from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I have sort of one straightforward question and one that’s more existential.
I’ll ask the straight forward one first.
Brian could you just restate your position on paying or raising the dividend? I know the CCAR this year has distorted that a bit and if you could just state how you feel about dividends versus buyback? Well I think number one in terms of -- we received approval for what we asked which is a nickel a share dividend and $4 billion of stock buyback in the CCAR.
And we had to be conservative in that ask leaving aside the modeling and other questions but just had to be conservative based ask because if you think about it our run rate of earnings was such that we’re coming off of $4 billion plus earnings score.
We had to keep our head on in terms of how we’re accumulating capital and make sure we earned the capital before we paid them.
The second thing is that the [$0.2 billion] [ph] of cushion shows that based on all the works at CCAR we have a strong cushion going forward.
So the key for us to be able to increase the dividend and continue to push forward is to get that normalized earnings stream in a couple of quarters $3 million plus of earnings we’re getting.
Long-term we’ve said many times our ultimate goal is to take about 3% of our recurring earnings and pay it out in dividends and then to use the rest for capital management.
At this price we would be buying stock back and if there is a different scenario where our multiple to book and earnings multiples are higher we might pay additional dividends but the goal would be about 30% payout ratio of recurring earnings as we get there.
Okay.
Thank you.
The second one is this.
And this is maybe a little bit more difficult to answer.
You had a good trading quarter but we’ve seen one of your competitors have a much better trading quarter.
And I know that there is a mix issue there.
But also as I kind of look at the composition of your businesses there have you sort of de-risked the trading desk to the point where you can’t really take full advantage of the volatility in markets? And I’m wondering if you see that as the case.
And secondly if there will come a time when you’re able to do some re-risking there? I think the Nancy what you asked is really the core question which is if you look a few years ago when we put core capital Global Markets out as a separate reported segment to ensure that people saw that that was a less volatile earnings stream than people perceived and it was not the earnings stream of the Global Banking segment high investment banking which you could see the fees up or down and were relatively stable in clearly the loan book and treasury services.
So we tried to sort the businesses so people can see what we’re doing in the global markets.
Based on our capital and based on our view of how the franchise fit together we keep that business about a third of our total size.
This total balance sheet deployed is under $600 billion and had them for years.
That then requires Tom and the team to make a series of choices how they deploy that based on our appetite for risk expressed by VaR our appetite for size expressed by the $600 billion which other people have far bigger balance sheet to deploy the business.
And that does limit their ability to take risk and do certain things.
So there is a mix issue based on this quarter.
In other quarters we performed better relatively and that’s this issue but from a core standpoint it’s not an existential question at all.
It is an actual determination we made to have our 50 buffer lower to have our overall risk lower and demand to company which is really customer focused on the core banking middle markets franchise and the core investors.
It’s still be big enough to be very impactful number one research house in the world and have $3.5 billion to $4 billion of revenue in the giving quarter.
We had to basically optimize around size capital capital deployment business and then the risk we’re willing to put in the P&amp;L and that’s where we ended up.
And that’s resulted I think 100 basis points less SIFI buffer requirement than other people.
And we think that’s balanced because with our book of business if we increased that we’ve got to carry that 100 basis points across the whole franchise not just the market business and that extra capital in our balance would really increase the capital requirements that really not needed for our core banking business.
So basically you are happy with the trading desk as it is? Yes I mean -- no we’re always never happy because we always wanted to do better.
I mean that’s not -- but on the other hand it’s fair to say that we are not unsatisfied when we make almost $1 billion after tax in the quarter where they were -- where they had a couple of big elements this mix in the macro businesses which we are positioned in on purpose.
And then secondly remember the core part of our business we are still adjusting to which was the leverage finance transaction business which you can look at is down dramatically year-over-year as we adopted the guidance and they were -- what was acquired.
That’s through the numbers now and then we will build back based on that business doing it the way that meets the regulatory standard.
So happy we are never happy with any business.
We are always pushing them to do better but given the constraints there is an understanding I would say more than happiness of where we ended up.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
A quick follow-up on the op risk questions.
So if we still have pending settlements out there on a few of the remaining sort of large issues could that lead to op risk at least sustaining at elevated levels or/and could it even potentially cause a little bit of an uplift there? Yes.
I think at this point we walk through.
And we said in the last call that we are at the level that we need to be from a overall op risk perspective.
And to your point if you look at the last two quarters relative to when that op risk capital was set we’ve seen fairly sizeable declines in overall litigation expense.
So you obviously work through that but our belief overtime is that number should be less not more but we need to deliver that to the shareholder.
Yes.
I mean from your lips to God’s ears but if we still have some potential settlements my only point is that it might take a little while before we end up seeing that come down.
Isn’t that a similar reason? Just as we said there is a bid ask on the RWA related to commercial credit factors and models.
There was a bid ask and operating risk.
We closed that out.
And we’ve actually moved our RWA to a number of those asks.
And then from then we just look at it very simply think about the last four quarters versus last year and just taking up third and fourth quarter you have a complete change in the amount of litigation expense that’s gone through the enterprise and you see that keep going through.
It will take a while for that to average out but basically assume that we’ve agreed to with amount which was requested to bring our op risk and we put that through last quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then it seems some high level turnover in your equities business.
Can you comment maybe on what’s driving some of those departures any potential implications and what you are doing about it? Yes.
I mean we’ve had some retirements of people worked in the business for 25 years Henry and team and it’s just the ebb and flow of business I don’t think there is any major issues going on there.
I think that [Thong Nguyen] [ph] and team have done a good job and stabilized that business and brought it back.
We continue to work on the prime brokerage side to make sure that we can be positioned to sort of restart that engine of growth.
Now that -- now we had both the business back we got the operating platform in place where we wanted to be [indiscernible] not this past fall but fall before.
So I think you shouldn’t be thinking into that other than usual ebb and flow of people deciding to do other things.
Okay.
Thanks for that color.
And then the last one for me following up on Ken's question it sounds like the FA headcount add are sort of biased a little more to the junior side? So should we count on a bit of a headwind from that on your productivity metrics in GWIM and maybe could you also comment on the recruiting environment currently and if you still think that comp may moderate as some of those deals with FAs from crisis level sunset… The average deal last year I think was 100 for highest end producing FAs which there were 100 up -- 120 up.
The average deal was like 127 -- 1.27 times going to others that might that are fly to us and that’s don’t know the exact number to think conceptually.
So the rumors about these payoffs are probably far in excess.
The reality is only 120 people or so.
So take whatever number.
So let’s broaden out the productivity question the productivity per advisor in our business is extremely strong and has sort of structurally been strong for many years and continues to increase.
You wouldn’t mine eluding that to get faster long-term growth prospects of the business and broaden out the business and that’s what John and team are doing whether it goes down and not really going to be a factor.
How fast the revenue stream grows.
It’s been our growing net impact of investing in the loan business.
But we aren’t yes so I wouldn’t -- I would say it’s going to go down or up based on the added younger advisors but let’s flip that and say there is the way we think this business has to drive for our competitive advantage as franchise there is a linkage from preferred to Merrill Lynch Wealth Management and the interactions between the financial services centers and the people come in there and tens of thousands people that get referred to Merrill is a competitive advantage for Merrill.
And we will continue to drive that part of that connectivity is we are now putting Merrill team-based brokers in the branches to work with clients and ultimately move physically onto the team in the offices.
So we’ve got a lot of program going.
They seem to be working very well.
It could dilute the productivity a little bit but it would immaterial because of the strength of the core franchise is so strong.
Thanks for the color.
And we can take our final question from Jeff Harte with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning guys.
A couple from me first of all you mentioned the commercial utilization rate being up a lot.
Can you give me some or give us some idea of how much of that is energy complex driven versus maybe coming from other less stressed industries? Yeah.
Most of all that given that the number I quoted was within the Commercial Bank that’s almost exclusively outside of the energy space.
So it has nothing to do with anything to stress.
It just core commercial plans driving more those numbers bottom down in the low 30s and they are now up in the high 30s.
Yeah think of that when we say Commercial that’s middle market general middle market for us.
Not the Corporate Bank where the energy exposures would be so.
It’s back to basically where it was not the highest point because it’s ran up right before the crisis.
But if you look back it’s higher than it wasn’t say 4 and 5 at this point right on.
So you just start to see the normalization of that borrowing which is good news because that means the people borrowing the money to do something.
Okay.
And looking at the balance sheet I mean can you talk a little bit about the plans the kind of the level of excess cash I mean 22% of assets in cash a 7% plus SLR ratio? It would seem awfully tough to generate ROE or ROA with that much of the balance sheet sitting in cash is there something you can do there? Yeah.
Look I think the first thing if you look that you have to consider as that.
As we went through with the different regulatory metrics we needed to get to that that the last metric that we needed to solve for and we wanted to get behind us was the satisfaction of where we needed to be from the LCR perspective in 2017 at both the bank level as well as the parent and work to the point where we’ve gotten to that point.
So from an overall liquidity HQLA perspective we feel very good about that progress.
As you look at on a go-forward bases obviously the big focus and the reason as a company that we are looking to drive the loan growth that we have is to basically take the access deposits today that are within the investment portfolio and release them from the investment portfolio into two core loan activity to do more with our clients.
So as you look at the changes and mix in the balance sheet as far as the built that you’ve seen with cash.
I think we are at the point where from an overall balance and where we need to be with the different metrics that we’ve satisfied that at this point and it will be more of a normal course on a go-forward basis.
Yeah.
I think generally thematically if you think about as we see rules come up we try to get in full compliances as fast as possible even though there is delay dates.
And then you can then work back on how to continuously improve the way you get there but first thing you guys do is get over the humps because it affects every other aspect of the franchise.
And so I think the LCR and case set we got over the hump 17 is two years away still and we are in compliance and then the idea is that you keep to figure out how that work to dies to make it more and more shareholder friendly overtime but the first we want to make sure we can do.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think that’s a -- I think that was the last question.
Thanks for joining today and we’ll talk to you in the next quarter.
This concludes the program for today.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a nice day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this call may be recorded.
I'll be standing by should you need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
You may begin sir.
Good morning.
Thanks to everybody on the phone as well as the webcast for joining us this morning for the second quarter results.
Hopefully everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release documents that are available on the website.
So before I turn the call over to Brian and Bruce let me just remind you we may make some forward-looking statements and for further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents our website or our SEC filings.
So with that I'm pleased to turn it over to Brian Moynihan our CEO for some opening comments before Bruce Thompson the CFO goes through the details.
Brian? Thank you Lee and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter results.
As you can see from our release we reported $5.3 billion in after tax earnings this quarter which is up from last quarter as well as more than double what we made last year.
Not only were we pleased with the bottom line but revenue was up and expenses were down comparably against both periods.
Lots of things came together to achieve these results and we continue to work on all these also.
On the expense side we told you that we achieved this new BAC cost savings back in the third quarter of last year.
However we didn't give up on our focus on expenses and you can see those in the results.
It's the lowest non-litigation expense base since 2008.
At the same time we continue to invest in the future of this company.
Just to mention a few of these investments we added sales specialists in our financial centers up 3% versus last year.
We added 3% to our financial advisers since last year 4% to our commercial and business bankers.
We've opened new financial centers in new markets that we previously didn't have coverage and we continue to upgrade those in other markets.
In addition we continue to invest in young new talent in our company.
We hired a record number of teammates from college over 1 200 and we have our intern program to over 1 800 this summer.
And we continue to invest as we have said in technology so that was $3 billion we spent this year to continue to improve and drive our products and our capabilities in the company.
As we are doing that we continue to focus on our process improvement our simplified and improved effort continues to take hold and you saw that to have some affect that this quarter.
The goal of that program is to hold the costs manage them well as the economy continues to recover and our revenues continue to recover.
Away from expenses a few other highlights for the quarter.
We saw overall loan growth and balances from the first quarter.
We saw continued improvement in our net charge-offs and credit quality; our deposits in our consumer continue to grow even faster this quarter than prior quarters.
We also built capital and tangible book value despite the OCI impact of higher rates.
We’ve returned over $1.3 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and common dividends and looking at the results this quarter you can also see that we're making progress on our path to our long-term targets of return on assets and return on tangible common equity.
Bruce will take you through the business activity in the various pages in the slides with some highlights.
This quarter again we averaged about 5 000 new customers a day to our mobile banking platform but importantly the team continues to make progress in bringing that platform into the company in multiple ways.
Example of that is this quarter our digital channel sales were up 30% from last year in the second quarter.
In addition to that we continue to focus on our mortgage area our direct to consumer mortgage and home equity originations improved 40% from a year ago.
In the mass affluent space our Merrill Lynch product it continues to have record assets and they were up 15% to over $122 billion and that’s on top of our investment brokerage services revenue teammates in U.S.
Trusts and Merrill Lynch that continues to grow.
We also continue to drive our 401(k) business and this year we’ve added some of the industry’s largest companies to our platform.
So this is the trends in the business and Bruce will cover more later.
From a broad economic standpoint what do we see out there notwithstanding uncertain economies outside United States we see the U.S.
economy continues to steadily improve.
In our middle market business our commercial businesses our company’s balance sheets are strong and they continue to drive loans at a higher rate than they did last quarter.
Our consumers continue to spend on our debit and credit cards this quarter spending about $127 billion this quarter up 3% from last year even with the down draft in gas prices in the year-over-year comparison.
Our industry leading research team under Candace's leadership and Bank of America research expects U.S.
GDP growth for the second half of the year to be 3% for each of those quarters and we see that in our statistics.
Our company is well-positioned to benefit from that continued health in the economy and we continue to manage this company to deliver for our customers and clients and for you our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Bruce.
Thanks Brian and good morning everyone.
I am going to start on slide three and let’s go through the results.
We recorded $5.3 billion of earnings in the second quarter or $0.45 per diluted share.
This compares to $0.27 a share in the first quarter of 2015 and $0.19 in the second quarter of last year.
A few items to note as you review the results.
In the second quarter we had $669 million of positive market related adjustments in net interest income primarily driven by premium amortization on our debt securities from higher long-term rates.
This provided a $0.04 benefit to EPS.
The quarter also included $373 million in benefits from consumer real estate loans which added $0.02 a share.
One other item worth noting is the rep and warrant provision which is a net $205 million benefit this period.
This was mostly associated with positive developments in legacy mortgage related matters which I'll discuss later in the presentation.
This added a $0.01 to EPS.
Revenue on an FTE basis was $22.3 billion in the second quarter and included the items that I just mentioned.
Total non-interest expense in the quarter was $13.8 billion and reflects lower litigation costs lower LAS costs and good core expense controls compared to both the first quarter of ‘15 and the second quarter of 2014.
Provision for credit losses this quarter was $780 million and included improved net charge-offs on an adjusted basis as well as less reserve release compared to the first quarter of 2015.
Return on tangible common equity this quarter was 12.8% return on assets was 99 basis points and the efficiency ratio was 62%.
If we adjust for those metrics for the few items I mentioned earlier return on tangible common equity was 10.9% return on assets was 85 basis points and the efficiency ratio was 65%.
On slide four the balance sheet was up less than 1% versus the first quarter of '15 as loan growth and higher securities balances were offset by a decline in the ending balances within our global markets business.
Loans on a period end basis were up reflecting good core loan activity.
All of our loan categories showed growth from the first quarter of '15 with the exception of consumer real estate which declined from both discretionary activity as well as other one-offs.
Common shareholders’ equity improved the solid earnings growth was partially offset by a $2.2 billion decline in OCI and $1.3 billion in capital return to common shareholders.
We repurchased 49 million shares for $775 million and paid approximately $500 million in common dividends this quarter.
Tangible book value increased to $15.02 and tangible common equity improved to 7.6%.
If we look at lending activity on slide five our reported loans on an end of period basis increased for the first time since the third quarter of 2013 growing $8.5 billion from the first quarter or 4% on an annualized basis.
Activity in our discretionary portfolio which is reflected in the LAS and all other box where we used consumer real estate loans to manage interest rate risk in the LAS unit where we have home equity run-off portfolio together showed a decline from the first quarter of '15 of $15 billion.
The loan sales I mentioned earlier accounted for roughly half that amount and included certain loans with long-term standby arrangements that were converted into securities.
After we exclude this activity our core loans increased $23.5 billion or 4% from the first quarter of '15.
Commercial lending was strong.
Among other initiatives the management team challenged our corporate and commercial lenders for the past several quarters to more fully utilize the credit limits to drive responsible growth.
In that light global banking showed a continuation of loan growth from the end of the first quarter of '15 growing $11.4 billion or 4% during the quarter from a mix of C&amp;I across large corporate and middle market as well as growth in commercial real estate.
Our wealth management business continues to experience strong demand in both securities based lending as well as consumer real estate.
And our consumer banking area grew both card and auto loans.
We move to regulatory capital on slide six.
Under the transition rules our CET1 ratio improved to 11.2% in the second quarter.
If we look at our Basel III regulatory capital on a fully phased-in basis CET1 capital improved $1.1 billion driven by earnings partially offset by the OCI decline share repurchases and dividends.
Under the standardized approach our CET1 ratio was steady at 10.3% as RWA was stable with the first quarter of '15.
Under the advanced approaches CET1 ratio increased from 10.1% to 10.4% as RWA improved by approximately $34 billion.
Lower counterparty RWA drove this decline and was equally split between three factors.
The first lower derivative exposures mainly driven by movements in both rates as well as FX.
Second optimization through better collateral management and reductions in certain positions.
And third an increase in the population of trades eligible for model treatment.
The balance of the improvement was driven by lower levels of market risk.
In regards to the Fed's requested modifications to models in order to exit the parallel run that we have previously communicated to you at the end of the quarter we estimate if we made the requested modifications that our advanced approaches CET1 ratio would be approximately 9.3% at June 30th.
Moving to our supplementary leverage ratios we estimate that at the end of the second quarter we continue to exceed the U.S.
rules that are applicable in 2018.
Our bank holding company SLR ratio was approximately 6.3% while the primary bank subsidiary BANA was approximately 7%.
If we turn to slide seven on funding and liquidity long-term debt of $243 billion was up $6 billion from the first quarter as issuances outpaced maturities.
As you can see from the maturity profile we have $10 billion of parent company debt scheduled to mature in the rest of 2015 and we'll continue to be opportunistic in regards to issuance.
Our global excess liquidity sources reached a record level during the quarter at $484 billion and now represents 23% of the overall balance sheet.
The increase from the first quarter of GELS reflects a continued shift from discretionary loans into HQLA securities as well as the increased debt balances.
Our parent company liquidity increased to $96 billion and our time to required funding improved to 40 months.
And at the end of the second quarter we estimate that the consolidated company was well above the 100% fully phased-in 2017 requirement for the liquidity ratio.
If we turn to slide eight our net interest income on a reported FTE basis was $10.7 billion an increase of $1 billion from the first quarter of ’15.
Volatility of long end rates over the past few quarters has clearly caused some variability in our reported NII.
The market related adjustment from our bond premium amortization this quarter was a benefit of $669 million as rates rose 40 basis points in the quarter while in the first quarter of ’15 we reported a negative $484 million adjustment from a decline in rates in the period.
If we adjust for those items our NII declined approximately a $100 million from the first quarter of ’15 to just over $10 billion as the impact of lower discretionary balances in consumer loan yields more than offset the impact of one more day of interest.
At the end of the second quarter an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel shift and increase in rates would be expected to contribute roughly $3.9 billion in NII benefits over the following 12 months and that split roughly 60% to short-end rates and 40% to long-end rates.
Given the movement higher in long-end rates our balance sheet did become less sensitive to long-end rates compared to March 31st as we realized some of that sensitivity through FAS 91 in the second quarter.
As you can see on slide nine non-interest expense was $13.8 billion in the second quarter and included a $175 million in litigation expense.
Litigation expense did decline significantly from the second quarter of ’14 levels.
If we exclude litigation expenses were $13.6 billion in the quarter a decline of $900 million or 6% from the second quarter of 2014.
On balance we’re quite pleased with our year-over-year expense improvement even while we continue to invest in the franchise.
In the third quarter of ’14 we wrapped up the new BAC cost savings initiatives and several quarters later we continue to see good progress on operating cost reductions in LAS as well as in other areas.
Our headcount is down 7% compared to the second quarter of ’14 and as a reminder we do expect to incur some cost associated with our CCAR resubmission through the balance of the year.
If we go ahead and switch to asset quality on slide 10 reported net charge-offs were $1.1 billion versus $1.2 billion in the first quarter of ’15.
Both periods include charge-offs associated with the August 2014 DOJ settlement which we had previously reserved for.
If we exclude these impacts and a small impact from recoveries on NPL sales our core net charge-offs declined $75 million from the first quarter of ’15 to $929 million.
Loss rates on the same adjusted basis improved to 43 basis points in the second quarter of ’15.
U.S.
consumer credit card delinquencies improved as well and on the commercial front we saw an uptick in NPLs and reservable criticized exposure from the first quarter driven by downgrades in oil and gas exposures.
Despite these downgrades we feel good about our exposure in this area as they are well collateralized and most of these credits only had a one level migration on a risk rating scale.
The second quarter provision expense was $780 million and we released a net $288 million in reserves which includes the utilization of previously accrued DOJ reserves.
Releases in consumer card and consumer real estate were partially offset by reserve bills within the commercial loan growth area.
Let’s go ahead and move to the businesses on slide 11 Consumer banking had earnings of $1.7 billion which was 4% greater than the second quarter of 2014 and 16% above the first quarter of ’15 level.
This in turn generated a strong 24% return on allocated capital.
Within revenue fees were up 2% from last year driven by higher card and higher mortgage banking revenue but this growth was more than offset by a decline in net interest income.
The decline in net interest income is a result of the allocated impact of our ALM activities as well as some compression in card loan yields.
Provision decreased $44 million from the second quarter of '14 driven by the continued improvement that we saw in both the credit card as well as the auto portfolios.
Our non-interest expense was down 4% from the second quarter of '14 as we reduced the number of financial centers and associated costs and personnel.
The cost of average deposits ratio is now less than a 175 basis points and we have a 57% efficiency ratio within this segment.
This business is a good representation of how the company is doing more business while we continue to reduce expenses.
We also continue to experience a shift in consumer behavior patterns away from branches and towards more self-service.
For example the number of mobile banking customers continues to grow and increased to more than $17.6 million customers this quarter and these customers look to mobile devices for approximately 13% of all transactions -- all deposit transactions.
If we look at some of the key drivers and trends within the consumer area on slide 12 we remain a leader in many aspects of consumer banking doing business with roughly half of all U.S.
households.
Let's look at card activity.
Card income increased 5% from the second quarter of '14 on strong sales and solid spend levels.
Card issuance reached almost $1.3 million units in the quarter on increased sales efforts while the average book FICO score was also strong.
Average loan balances were down slightly from the second quarter of '14 as we do see customers paying down more of the balances.
Net charge-offs declined from very low levels and were 2.7% in the second quarter and risk adjusted margins remained high at roughly 9%.
Mortgage banking income in this segment was up 8% from last year as originations had nice follow through from the elevated pipeline at the end of the first quarter as well as the higher productions margins.
First mortgage originations for the total company were $16 billion up 44% year-over-year and up 16% from the first quarter of '15.
Home equity line and loan originations increased 23% to $3.2 billion from the year ago quarter and were stable with the first quarter.
Revenue improvement versus the second quarter of '14 was driven by improved margins.
Although the mortgage pipeline remained solid it is down 15% from the end of the first quarter driven in part by higher rates.
Service charges were down modestly versus the second quarter of '14.
This fee line item does continue to be somewhat muted as we continue to open higher quality accounts and those accounts are carrying higher balances.
Compared to the second quarter of '14 our average deposits of $545 billion are up $31 billion or 6% even as we lowered the rates paid which now stands at five basis points.
Lastly while we are bringing down our overall headcount in this business we continue to invest in the growth opportunity of our preferred client base and we've been increasing sales specialists in the financial centers and that's resulted in increased activity.
If we turn to slide 13 Global wealth and investment management produced earnings of $690 million which was up 6% from the first quarter of '15 level but down 5% from the second quarter of '14.
Compared to the second quarter of '14 solid fee growth was offset by lower net interest income higher credit cost and modestly higher expenses which resulted in a decline in year-over-year results.
The allocation of the impact of our company's ALM activities more than offset the NII benefits that we had from solid loan growth within the space.
Year-over-year non-interest income was up 4% on strong asset management results.
Non-interest expense was modestly higher in the second quarter on the strength of our asset management fees as well as the continuing investment in client facing professionals.
The year-over-year increase in provision reflects larger reserve release in the prior periods.
Pretax margin was 24% and the return on allocated capital remained strong at 23%.
If we look at activity and drivers on slide 14 asset management fees continue to grow and are up 9% from the second quarter of '14.
This was partially offset by sluggishness of transactional revenue in the brokerage business.
We did increase our financial advisers by 6% over the last 12 months and we feel good about the number of advisers that are joining us from competitors.
Client balances are above $2.5 trillion up almost $12 billion from the first quarter of '15 driven by solid client balance inflows as well as improved market valuations.
Long-term AUM flows were $9 billion for the quarter and that's the 24th consecutive quarter where we've seem positive flows.
As I mentioned earlier we continue to experience strong demand in both our securities based and residential mortgage lending areas and we reached a new record for loans within the space during the quarter.
We turn to slide 15; global banking earnings were $1.3 billion which is 14% on allocated capital.
Earnings did decline 13% from the second quarter of '14 as lower non-interest expense was more than offset by lower net interest income lower investment banking revenues and higher provision expense that was associated with the strong loan growth that we saw during the quarter.
The year-over-year decline in net interest income reflects the allocation of our ALM activity and liquidity costs as well as some compression in loan spreads.
Non-interest expense did decline 3% from the second quarter of '14 as lower litigation and other technology initiative costs were partially offset by investment in client-facing personnel.
If we look at the trends on slide 16 we chart the components of revenue.
Investment banking fees for the company were $1.5 billion down 6% from the near record levels that we experienced during the second quarter of '14.
Advisory fees were up 5% during the quarter debt underwriting was relatively stable as increased activity in the investment grade and other products offset the declines that we saw within our leverage finance area.
Equity underwriting was down 19% from what was a record level for our company in the second quarter of 2014.
Outside of investment banking fees other banking revenue declined from leasing gains partially offset by modestly higher treasury fees and card income.
If we look at the balance sheet loans on average were $301 billion up 4% from both the year-over-year and linked-quarter periods.
The growth was broad-based across both corporate and commercial borrowers.
Although average deposits were relatively stable versus the second quarter of '14 we did see a favorable shift in mix with our non-interest bearing deposits up over $20 billion and our interest bearing deposits down $17 billion versus the second quarter of '14.
This growth in non-interest bearing balances was driven by a continuing focus on the growth within operating balances.
The decline in interest bearing balances was driven by targeted reductions in these low liquidity value deposits.
Switching to global markets on slide 17 in the second quarter earnings were $1 billion on revenues of $4.3 billion.
We generated 11% return on capital in this business during the quarter.
Earnings were up modestly from the first quarter of '15 levels which included higher litigation but down from the second quarter of '14 as revenue declined.
Total revenue excluding net DVA declined from the second quarter driven by lower equity investment gains lower sales and trading results and lower investment banking fees.
If we exclude a $188 million difference between periods on the sale of an equity investment revenue was down 4% in the second quarter.
Non-interest expense was reduced 5% from that same period in line with the revenue reductions.
We focused on the sales and trading performance components on slide 18.
Sales and trading revenue of $3.3 billion ex-net DVA is down 2% from the second quarter of '14 levels.
Compared with the same period a year ago fixed sales and trading was down 9% and not unlike what we saw in the first quarter of '15 strength within the macro-related products like FX rates and commodities was offset by lower levels of activity within the credit product space.
And to remind you our mix does remain more heavily weighted to credit products based on the size of our new issue business.
Equity's trading was up 13% year-over-year driven largely by increased client activity within the Asia Pacific region as well as a strong performance within the derivative area.
Slide 19 shows our legacy assets and servicing business where we were profitable during the quarter given the net benefit in our rep and warrant provision.
Revenue excluding this benefit did decline from the first quarter of '15 on less favorable MSR hedge performance as well as lower servicing revenue.
Litigation expense declined significantly from the second quarter of '14.
Non-interest expense ex-litigation was roughly $900 million this quarter improving $122 million from the first quarter of ‘15 and $526 million going back to the second quarter of '14.
We remain on track to hit our fourth quarter goal of approximately $800 million in LAS cost ex-litigation.
We were also pleased that during the quarter our number of 60 plus day delinquent loans decreased to 132 000 units.
That's down 14% from the first quarter and almost 50% from the prior period of last year.
Before I move away from the mortgage space let me mention an important development in our legacy mortgage exposures.
This quarter there was a closely watched case in New York's highest court which confirmed that the New York's six year statute of limitation on filing rep and warrant claims begins to run at the time the reps and warranties are made and not at some later point in time.
Based on our review of the relevant documents we believe the vast majority of the bank's remaining PRs representation on warranty obligations are governed by New York law.
As a result of the case ruling you can see on slide 20 a significant $7.6 billion reduction in our gross outstanding private label claims as a result of certain claims now being time barred.
This ruling also had positive implications on our rep and warrant provision as I mentioned as well as the range of possible loss above those reserves.
You’ll recall the RPL had been a range of up to $4 billion for several years and so that the top end of that range has now been reduced to up to $2 billion.
On slide 21 we show all other.
The $637 million of earnings this quarter resulted in a swing in profitability is a result of the improvement in the NII market related adjustment from quarter-to-quarter as well as the prior period inclusion of the annual retirement eligible incentive cost.
The loan sales I mentioned earlier are also included in revenue.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29% and I would expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% for the rest of 2015 absent unusual items like the recent UK tax reform proposals.
Among the UK proposals where a reduction in the corporate tax rate a surcharge tax on bank earnings and a reduction in the bank levy rate.
Our preliminary read is that we could have a one-time charge of several hundred million dollars later in this year to re-price our UK deferred tax assets upon enactment.
At this time on an ongoing basis we expect the recurring tax impact to be modest.
Before wrapping up on this slide let me remind you that our preferred dividends in the third quarter should be $440 million and $330 million in the fourth quarter of this year.
So to wrap up as Brian started the presentation with many things that our teams have been focused on for some time came together nicely this quarter and that enabled us to report more than $5 billion in earnings and move closer to our long-term targets.
Revenue reflected relative stability.
We lowered cost we grew loans nicely credit quality remains very good and we're focused on operating leverage within the business.
The foundation of the company's balance sheet has never been stronger with record capital and record liquidity levels and we remain well-positioned to benefit from a rising rate environment.
With that let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The question I am getting from people this morning is around the expenses.
You showed some very nice improvement in core expenses coming down meaningfully Q - on-Q and year-over-year and the question is have we reached the end stage here or is there any further opportunity to bring down expenses from here? I think that’s in the broadest context we continue to work expenses and if we talk to about each quarter 18 straight quarter reduction in core operating expenses outside litigation 15 straight quarters 3 000 people or more reduction each quarter.
So we just continue to apply technology to continue to long-term reduce expenses.
So the goal we have in some is to keep the expenses flat as revenue increases and if the world economic situation changes different what we were expecting we would have to look at it differently but as you can see this quarter that will result in a constant downward pressure given where we are in the economy.
Okay and then on the reps and warranty side you had what looks like a little bit of a true up based on this litigation decision.
Is that the right way of reading it or is there potentially even more to come in the future as you go through each case? No clearly what the case is significant is this Betsy we look to add and as do every quarter look at the rep and warrant provision and you are right it was a net benefit of $200 million this quarter.
I think the important thing; I think more than the $200 million is that if you look back on our slide 20 in the earnings materials the effect of the decision led to two things that do reduce tail risk on a go forward basis.
The first is you can see the number of new claims that came was just over $200 million which is a dramatic improvement from what we’ve seen historically.
And second as a result of the time barring of certain claims that the outstanding claims that we have and keep in mind these outstanding claims are based on original UPB came down fairly significantly to just below $19 billion.
So while it was nice to have the modest benefit that we did in the quarter I think importantly on a go forward basis it does reduce the tail risk that’s out there and we saw some of the benefits from that in the activity level this quarter.
Okay thanks.
And then just one last question you indicated the upside that you have in the event of rate rise $3.9 billion if the parallel shift is 100 basis points the question is how you are thinking about dropping that to the bottom line? Is there reinvestments that would take up some of that or are you at sufficient run rate in investment spends that you would be able to drop more to the bottom line? I think there is no question Betsy as we look at and I just remind people that we were at $3.9 billion for 100 basis point move.
If you look at that roughly 60% of it’s on the short end now 40% of it’s on the long end and there is no question that we would expect to drop a significant portion of that to the bottom line if and when we see that 100 basis point move.
Okay.
And then just back to the expense side the expense run rate that you’ve got right now is something you think you can hold at least if not improve from here is that fair? Yeah.
That’s really in your last question we’ve been investing in headcount to open up our customer facing capacity so I replicated some of statistics earlier.
So we are comfortable from a technology spend rate from an investment client facing capacity marketing and everything we had a good run rate so there will be downward pressure as headcount continues to come down through the application of technology across the platform of customers and internally.
So we’re comfortable that we can continue to drive it and make no bones about it this is what we work on every day and we are yet to put out a dollar target because frankly that tells the team we’ve made a goal and stop as opposed to just get better at it every day.
So we just want that we are constantly working to improve the dynamics of revenue versus expense in this company.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll take our next question from Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
If you look at the core net interest income ex the market related marks it was down little bit versus last quarter but you are starting to see loans inflect as you mentioned earlier.
Do we start seeing stability in the core net interest income looking at the next quarter or two or do we really need higher short-term rates for that? No thanks for the question.
It’s a good question.
I think if you look at we typically have a little bit of seasonal pressure in the second quarter and as we sit here today based on the curve we would expect to see the core net interest income which obviously excludes FAS 91 move up from Q2 to Q3 and we’d expect further growth from Q3 to Q4.
Okay and that’s without any benefit from rates? It’s just based on the realization of what the existing curve is which quite frankly we don’t look at and our models don’t show fed funds going up until January of 2016.
So there’s not a lot of great benefit in that at all.
Okay and then on the discretionary book you mentioned it came down a little bit when you look on a combined securities mortgages basis and I guess as we saw long term rates go up and some banks have been increasing the discretionary book with higher reinvestment rates or higher investment rates herein what’s your thought on bringing that book down as rates have gone up? Okay two comments I think.
The first is that when we talk about the discretionary balances coming down that’s basically the whole loan portfolio as well as certain pieces of the home equity portfolio.
So we referenced that those came down about $15 billion quarter-over-quarter; half due to the sales and half due to pay downs.
We probably have one more quarter where you will see some of the conversion of those loans to securities.
But if you actually look at the amount of securities from a balance perspective they went up a little bit Q1 to Q2 based on the conversion of those loans to securities and as we continue to see the deposit footprint grow we will continue to invest and we’re obviously mindful of the balance between increasing net income interest like I spoke about as well as being sensitive to OCI risk.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jim Mitchell from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick follow up on the NIM outlook I think first Bruce last quarter you mentioned that the yield curve stayed where it was you talked about $600 million of drag in NII over the next few quarters.
Are you saying that that’s pretty much changed with this deepening of the curve since April when you spoke last and not only NII is growing but NIM should stabilize or is it just sort of offsetting each other or you are getting a boost from that how do we think about the yield curve versus your prior comment? Yeah I think again as we look and step forward that there are a lot of things that influence that number one is obviously the ability and how much we’ve put up the increase in deposits to work through growing loans and clearly we’ve seen during the second quarter we saw that loan growth move up which is obviously a good thing which lessens some of that sensitivity.
And as we look at the amount and what we’re doing from an investment portfolio that there is less to do during the second half of the year.
So all-in-all as we look at those different factors it’s why we’re comfortable saying that we’d expect the quarter increase both Q2 to Q3 as well as from Q3 to Q4.
That’s fair enough.
And just on the capital side when do you think the modifications become official and you exit the parallel run how long do we think we have to wait for that and is there anything that could change in terms of your expectation around I guess the 90 basis point hit to your CT1? I think I’d say that we can’t say too much about regulatory matters.
I think given the updated disclosure we have given you can assume that we’re getting closer to having that result.
You never know until you’re ultimately done.
But we feel very comfortable with the guidance of 9.3% factoring in the adjustments based on where we were at the end of the second quarter and we’ll look to get that wrapped up sooner than later.
Okay that’s helpful and just one last quick one on the $3.9 billion of sensitivity to higher rates how much is FAS 91 related versus for the core? Sure as I mentioned roughly 40% of its long end which is a $1.5 billion of the amount and roughly half of that’s FAS 91 and half of it’s non-FAS 91 related.
Okay thanks a lot.
Our next question is from John E.
McDonald from Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Bruce just one more question on the rate sensitivity the $3.9 billion move for a 100 basis point parallel move I assume that illustration is to a 100 basis points move that’s a shock or an instantaneous move in rates.
Can you give us any feel for how that number would change if the move in rates is more gradual as the Fed is kind of saying if I go gradually how does that change if it's not instantaneous? Well I mean ultimately overtime if you get to the 100 basis point number you have that.
I think your point is is that if they move 25 basis points is it 25% or is it more than 25%.
And I think that the thing you have you to keep in mind and we've talked about it a lot with what we would expect from a deposit re-pricing perspective is that that clearly you'd expect the first 25 to 50 basis points move up that we would not have to do much from a deposit perspective.
So net-net on a relative basis that should be a positive as you look at the numbers.
Okay and then a clarification where is the gain on consumer real-estate loans is that in the mortgage banking line? No it's in other income.
And it's reflected in the all other segment.
Okay.
The mortgage banking income was very strong and the fee income line obviously had the rep and warrant in there.
Was there anything else in there that helped on the mortgage banking line? I would say that generally that the hedge results on the MSR were fairly decent in the quarter and then you can see like we said there just wasn’t much litigation during the quarter as well.
So all of those things led to the results being where they are.
But you're right that we've typically had 100 to 200 of rep and warrant provision and we had 200 benefits that you get a sense of the magnitude of the swing on a comparable period basis.
Got it got it okay.
And then last question from me on the credit do you see the net charge offs kind of dancing around the current level the $929 million.
And how you see it playing out in terms of provision reserve release relative to what you just did this quarter? Yeah I think this quarter I think you're seeing kind of a continuation of what we've been talking about.
And I want to be careful that we're -- particularly we need to exclude DOJ book both on the top as you did in your 929 number as well as in the reserve release.
So if you back out what we had for DOJ the reserve release was about 150.
The charge-offs of $929 million were down roughly $75 million.
And while this can bounce around a little bit I think what you're likely to see over the next couple of quarters is probably a convergence where the charge-offs and the provision number become more closely aligned.
And I would just say that particularly on the consumer side we continue to like what we see on credit.
And on the commercial side you can see that the charge-offs are virtually nil within the large corporate space.
And there is nothing that we see out there that's going to change that materially.
Okay and on top of that will the DOJ still be a factor for next couple of quarters? As it relates to that I want to think John that it will be in the $100 million type area as it relates to both charge-off and reserve release.
And then by the time we get to the fourth quarter it should virtually go away.
It can bounce around a little bit but it should largely be gone by the end of the third quarter.
But it's pares off John.
So the way you expect this quarter to continue.
So you know it’s a number that’s offset by our previously established reserve.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Glenn Schorr from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Two quick ones on the average balance sheet.
When you look at the debt securities line the yields went up some [indiscernible] lot from 2% to 3.2%.
I'm assuming some of that is LAS loans converting.
But could you give a little color on what drives that because the overall size of those book didn’t change that much.
Yeah it's interesting if you look year-over-year and you adjust for FAS 91 which shows up in the NII when you're looking back at the table that the yields were almost identical from the second quarter of '14 to the second quarter of '15 once you make that 91 adjustment.
Okay similar but different question.
Inside the C&amp;I book the used commercial book it was just a four basis point drop quarter-on-quarter but there is growth there.
So I'm just curious the trade-off between price and yield give up on the new loans you're putting on versus the responsible growth you've talked about doesn't seem that bad.
I'm just curious on what kind of yield you're putting new loans on.
Sure and I think when you look at commercial loan spreads there are two things that those numbers reflect I think that there is -- the first thing which is just from a macro perspective that has been a little bit of compression although we're seeing it slow is it relates to just the competitive landscape and where the loans are getting done.
As it relates to your question about the new loans the responsible growth if you looked and particularly in the areas that picked up during the second quarter that on our risk rating scale they would translate to credits that tend to be in the strong triple B or single A area.
So they are largely investment grade type credits where we are extending it.
And if you look at average spreads in that area they tend to be in the LIBOR plus 150 type area on average which is a little bit lower than the average across the commercial platform but as you can see the credit’s clearly at the upper end.
So Glenn broadly stated if you think about it we are not -- on a credit structure we held our discipline.
On price there has been pressure but you then you have to look at that whole relation [ph] basis with the other fees and revenue you get from cash management stuff and we try to [ph] have our client focused discipline to it but your observation is right there is little pressure on those spreads due to that.
Okay I definitely appreciate that.
Last one is when you talk about the pushing for growth and you mentioned the difference specialists in the branches the business banking the financial investment consultants I am curious what are you doing to incent them to encourage them in other words are there actual incentives or do they get paid on the productions? In the sales context there is -- there are incentives for production but it has to be done the right way with the right customers and with the right structure.
So it is not -- it doesn’t drive their behavior.
It’s different than the wealth management business in terms of the balance between incentives but if they are okay to open -- the mortgage loan officers are paid to produce mortgages and to open up checking accounts and other things.
But it’s really it’s actually deploying the people and building the capacity to sell as we are reducing the need for services through all the automation that’s going on and then shifting that group of people so that it’s really just having more of them then think of it as incentive driven behavior.
And then really then having the information at the point of a sale through our technology offers that have been made to people for credit cards and et cetera so that you can make the offer again that’s already been made to them on mine [ph] or something.
So it’s commonly just sales practice is more people and then just the discipline of the team Tom Glenn and Dean [indiscernible] then it would be incentive driven.
All right thanks very much.
Our next is from Eric Wasserstrom from Guggenheim Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Just to follow up a little bit on that last point when I was trying to shift through the core loan growth numbers this morning it looked like the core loan growth coming out of the institutional bank and the wealth management looks strong.
But the -- I am still unclear what the core level of growth was inside the consumer organization and so I am just trying to reconcile that with where the incremental hiring is occurring on the sales front.
So could you just clarify what the core level of customer growth was? Well if you look at -- I think in the consumer on page five you can see the balances then you can see the different pieces.
We have changed our practice of how we book residential mortgages for our consumer customers that had impact on that but overall remember they are still fighting a couple -- we are still fighting a couple of things in consumer one is the card balances have probably [ph] stabilized and you saw it from our first quarter second quarter a slight uptick there.
That’s because we had -- we’ve been hitting increasingly record sales of credit card so I think we did about $1.3 million this quarter Bruce.
That is again a record for us since we changed the business model six-seven years ago.
And if you look at things like the home equity balances and things like that those were under pressure just because we are still seeing significant repayments even though we are producing a lot in that area.
So if you look at that you can see it’s across the board just little bit upside still in part the interplay between some of the run off in the other category and the build-up in residential but they do a lot more themselves loans in that place and so the investment sales levels that drives that Merrill Edge in fact the FSA and the branches that we deploy do $4 million of notional on average a month of new investment products in building $4 million to $5 million they sell obviously check accounts net check-in accounts this quarter we had a net check-in account growth position even taking into account the run off from divestitures and other things and then you have the loan side.
So they are responsible for driving all that and so it shows up in the loans a little bit that’s why the fee categories are stable in other areas.
And so do you have a sense or is there some sense maybe Brian you can give us to how that investment in sort of front office staff is contributing to growth outside of the segment? Well -- in the small business arena the first half of the year we get about $5 billion of originations in what the -- what we would define the small business we have across two divisions and they helped grow that.
Merchant services growth it fell that goes into the business banking segment -- the global banking segment.
And they send [ph] about 20 000 customers here in the wealth management that literally walk in our branch are wealthy and they get moved over and that helps our wealth management business.
So you can think of them - you're right that sales force -- that [ph] segment that it has a benefit across the board and then services a lot of our customers business business banking commercial banking customers coming to the branches obviously for cash related really to the cash management revenue.
So it is across the board and contributes and so the good news is they are making more money than they may have last year on their own.
But it's still providing that services and capabilities across the platform.
And so and this is just my final question with the -- if we divorce just the run off from some of the legacy asset that's still occurring would you expect the core consumer asset growth to accelerate as a consequence of this investment or do you think that it's currently run rating [ph]? The run off subsides in the consumer category this is consumer banking here and then you've got the LAS piece the LAS will continue to grow down because frankly those products we put in there -- we could decide not to do it but in consumer you should see as its stabilizes you will see a little better loan growth but remember they've focused on the response of our responsive growth.
We're not going to open up the credit card business in a way that will produce charge offs later down the road that we won't be happy with.
So we are driving that growth into the core strong credit quality that we want to have in this company and [indiscernible] assuming that this leads to because to do that you have go in the credit postures that we won’t do.
And I would just add if I may if you look at home equity it's a good example of where if you look within the consumer banking space and during the second quarter of this year the home equity originations of line amounts were about $3.2 billion.
They were to loan to value less than 60%.
FICOs deep into the 700s and so there were more than $3 billion of those booked.
That’s number one market share roughly a $1.5 billion of that was funded but you do have some of the legacy stuff that running off.
So I think when you wonder about activity levels and what's happening I think you need to realize that with that number one share and what we are doing it is growing.
It’s just there is a run off that mutes that effect.
Great thanks very much for the answers to my question.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
First question just on the RWA looks like when you look at the reconciliation of the move to fully phased-in there's a little bit of a help on the advanced models this quarter.
I just in a general sense obviously we still have that finalization to come but what additional tweaks that you are working on inside the modules and what additional mitigation could we still see from here on the RWA side? Ken if I may there are couple of things.
We are obviously working hard to move there’s many of the exposures from CEM treatment to IMM treatment which generally has had favorable benefit there.
The second thing I talked about better collateral management as well as looking to work to do more compression and to net things out and we continue to see some benefit there.
The third is we continue to move out and we're largely through this but as we continue to move out some of the non-performing consumer real estate as well as the benefits of improved consumer credit quality we're seeing benefits there and there are still a lot of few RMBS and other type positions that we would expect to get benefit for over the next couple of quarter.
So I think that this quarter was clearly a quarter between the activity that we undertook as well as what happened from a rates and FX perspective where we saw pretty good quarter-over-quarter improvement and obviously there was not only in the markets business but also in the consumer businesses.
That's said Bruce the other thing we have a healthy dose of operating capital due to the operating risk embedded from the country wide [ph] and other things that we have to figure out over time how we can work through the system because we never did the activities in the company.
But on the other hand we had to deal with the cost of them and so both operating and general.
So as you think about that longer-term we have to get the more rational deal or better offering result to the company today which is different but that will take time and working through the models there too.
Okay and then my second question this just relates to the wealth management business and Bruce you alluded to there being a little bit of a slow down on the revenue.
So if I look at the segment or the line item on the income statement there has been a deceleration advisor productivity looks a little bit lower and you've added a lot of people you have added a lot of assets.
So I'm just wondering what do we need to see to get a re-acceleration of the revenue side and brokerage and wealth management and is it -- or is it just the time lag relative to those additions? Couple of points in that.
I think first that there is clearly a building up of advisors particularly if we're bringing them in and training them that there is a ramp up in productivity that occurs.
I don't think there is any question.
The second thing that I do think is important is that when you look at the net interest income line that as I've mentioned it looked a little bit muted.
If you saw gross loan net interest income you would see those increasing.
So some of the push out of the ALM activities has muted the NII line a little bit.
And then the third thing which you referenced that I do think is a little bit more of a trend that and I think is not only -- is somewhat consistent with some of the regulatory standards which we're seeing more and more of the assets that we manage being managed on a long term basis where we were managing them and so that's leading to growth in the asset management fees.
And the corollary to that is that you do have lower brokerage income.
But net-net you can see that we are growing in the segment and we feel good about the activity that we are seeing there.
Yeah I say a few quarters we saw the margin the pretax margin come down and you are seeing it start to turn back and go up and there is positive pressure on the future on that after the end of this year because some of the deal stuff runs out will add a couple of points to margin.
It’s in the numbers this year but won’t be in the numbers next year.
And then your point as the maturity of the investment cycle so because we are adding the financial advisors the folks are coming in they are building the books and as that maturity happens you’ll see it get a little better.
But the encouraging signs we’re seeing the margin come back up.
And remember this business also benefits a lot by the rate changes too ultimately it is a -- it’s a big bang.
It’s got $250 billion deposits round numbers a lot of loans and it has a lot of the same sensitivity our consumer bank does that people don't think of in this context.
So as we think about the comp structure is in place but there is added deal piece that runs off.
You are seeing the maturity cycle that people coming up and the team is just working hard on the revenue expense management and we start to see some better signs.
They got some work to do still left.
Understood.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steven Chubak from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
So I have a couple of questions on the topic of capital.
The first is a follow-up to Ken's earlier question regarding RWA mitigation potential and Bruce I do appreciate the color you cited relating to all the mitigation opportunities on the horizon.
I'm just trying to get a better sense given your efforts to grow the core loan portfolio how we should be thinking about the trajectory in advance RWAs? Maybe excluding the upward adjustment tied to regulatory guidance.
Just to give us a sense as to what that trajectory should look like over the next couple of quarters.
Let’s make the caveat that this assumes that we don't have a significant change one way or -- in market conditions because obviously there is a part of Basel III that’s somewhat pro-cyclical.
But I think net-net if we do a good job of managing this the way that we would expect to that absent any exogenous changes we should be able in the institutional business which is both global banking as well as sales and trading that we should be able to grow loans while at the same time having -- have reductions in the overall risk weighted assets that are attributed to that area.
Now where you will probably see it be more dollar-for-dollar is obviously under standardized those loans tend to be -- every dollar of loan is a dollar of RWA.
So you have to be a little bit careful between which method you are looking at.
Okay well presumably the focus at least on your part is going to be on mitigating the advance RWAs given that that appears to be your longer term binding constraint? It’s both because you’re right as it relates to a ratio pro forma for this it is the lower number but keep in mind you have to keep the focus on standardized as well because at least based on last year’s CCAR as well as guidance that’s out there standardized is very important from a CCAR perspective.
I understood okay and actually it’s a great transition to my next question on the topic of G-SIB surcharges where I'm sure you’re aware there’s been some discussion around the possibility of incorporating the surcharges within CCAR and I was just hoping to get a better sense as to what contingency plans you might have in place if the surcharges were to be included and are there opportunities that you see to sufficiently mitigate the G-SIB indicators so that you could move into a lower bucket? A couple of things on that front the first is as it relates to G-SIBs their application where they may or may not be used at this point while we participate in industry forums I think that the supervisory has been very transparent in sharing much of the same things that they share with us you’re also aware of.
So I think that the information is fairly disseminated amongst everyone.
As it relates to contingency planning it’s really an ongoing continuation of what we did from 2013 to 2014 which if you recall is it related to our qualitative CCAR results in a timeframe where we didn’t have significant levels of net income that our CCAR cushion grew significantly and so what are we doing to focus on that on the investment portfolio we’re mindful of managing OCI risk given that it flows through the overall CCAR process.
We continue to be very focused on moving out those loans and those assets that have higher loss content and at the same time making sure that the originations that we put on are of the highest quality.
So we continue to focus on that.
If you look at the overall risk that’s being taken within the market’s business we’re managing that so that there’s not a surprise as it relates to that.
And clearly we continue to work hard to move out those exposures that have high loss content there.
So yeah I think it’s really much more but a continuation of the work that we’ve been at for several years now and we’re mindful of making sure that we continue to push that stuff out at the same time that we’re originating those things that will perform well as part of that overall exercise.
All right thanks Bruce that detail is extremely helpful.
And then one more quick final one from me I was hoping you can give us an update on where your T-LAC ratios sit today? Yeah I think that the T-LAC ratio as it relates to where we are and this assumes that we exclude stuff that’s less than a year; I think that the T-LAC ratio is roughly 21% at this point.
We’ll have to see the deducts that come in and out of that based on G-SIB and other things but I think we’re just below 21% at the end of the quarter.
Okay great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brennan Hawken from UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Quick one on wealth management.
Is it possible for you to quantify for us how much of your total wealth management client assets are in retirement accounts and of that what percentage are advisory? We’ll get back I don’t have that up off the top of my head in terms of -- I just don’t have that off the top of my head.
Okay just the whole idea there is just trying to get at the DOL proposal and maybe what could be potential downside even based on how it all gets finalized understanding that it’s preliminary at this point? Yeah [indiscernible] tell you on that.
Okay and then looking at the branch declines that you guys referenced earlier is the tweak on the sort of 5% year-over-year as a reasonable decline rate sustainable from here given the trends that you’re seeing in your mobile platform and could this potentially add additional GUs [ph] to your expense decline beyond the business as usual type pushing that you guys spent a lot of time talking about here in the call today.
So let’s step back and make sure that what we understand one thing.
It’s the idea is they were moving because the customers are moving and how they conduct business.
So you've got to run your changes consistent with what they're doing.
And that's a base line that you have to stick to.
If you forget that you can overshoot or undershoot frankly.
And so -- and so that being said that's one point.
Second point is in the 6 100 branches that we had at the peak down to this level there are multiple things we are doing customer behavior changes change in the configuration of the market we attack et cetera.
So there are lots of elements.
So now you're more in a business as usual ongoing practice which will really be driven more by the customer behavior as opposed to some view point we have about markets and arranging the franchise.
So I'd expect that they will continue to work themselves down.
I wouldn't predict a steady rate because to it's a very composite [ph] equation.
But then let’s split what's really going on as Bruce talked about earlier we have 17.6 million mobile users we have 31 million bank -- computer banking users.
That number is actually growing again for a while was kind of flattish is actually growing.
So it's interesting that that's happening.
60% of our sales are all digital now about 6% of the sale that are digital which is computers and mobile or mobile and that's growing at 300%.
So it's catching up.
And then you get things that are interesting because it grows the efficiency of branch.
There are about 10 000 appointments scheduled in the mobile device a week at the branch that allows us [ph] to have a more efficient branch structure even though we may have less we may have bigger branches because you have more sales going on in them.
So think about that that's up from 2 000 last year second quarter 10 000 times a week now and growing at that rate implied there.
People are scheduling appointments to come see us which is a lot better experience for us and them to serve themselves allows us to have our staffing levels down.
Bruce referenced the check deposit are 13% of all checks.
So the activity of all this is critical to that question.
So I won't give you a 5% reduction or 4% reduction or any mathematical equation we have done.
But I'll be careful about assuming it will be that ratable but it would be more based on behavior change.
But the key is our customers scores have gone up overall and even in mobile channels we've gone up year-over-year a 1000 basis points on our mobile channel top of the box satisfaction.
So it will be a complex thing.
It's an integrated pool of capabilities phones online ATA at branches.
And you'd expect it to be pressured going down but remember we were early into this and if you think about 1 400 branches that's bigger than a lot of companies out there already have a system.
So we've been at this for a long time and we will do it the right way because if you push too hard to you will hurt the clients.
That's helpful color Brian thanks.
And then last one from me you made reference earlier to a couple of points margin from the employee forgivable loan amortization dropping off next year.
Is that is next year sort of a bump in the trend or is that indicative of potential further declines in forgivable loans as they continue to roll off.
And does it assume some level of counter pressure offsetting pressure from continuing recruiting.
And maybe a little update on the recruiting environment for us guys will be helpful.
Yeah what I'm referencing is discrete away from the entire recruiting process.
This is a setup at a time where that transaction for a group of people at that time.
And it just came in over the years and it's not just the last year but it goes beyond [ph].
The forgivable loan factors and all the other stuff recruiting is a little different thing.
But John Keith Banks and the team they're successful recruiting on the experience level.
The attrition for the top two quintile for financial advisors is at an all-time low.
I think again it’s run about 2% [ph] or something like that.
So we're retaining those and we are recruiting at the both experienced level.
But importantly what is obvious to us is to drive the amount of client need here to drive to get the client need which is huge and underserved in our beliefs.
We had to create more advisors than there out there.
And so we've really worked hard on the [indiscernible] and training program which is basically bring deeper business experience out there for us to bring them into our firm and also other industries into our firm.
And that is now we think reaping benefits to us we have been working on it two or three years retool and drive it.
So you should expect our advisor counted to go up and our productivity may come down per advisor.
But frankly there is a lot of business where remember [indiscernible] per advisors is a million in spends.
And so bringing it down a little bit to get a lot more growth and a lot more growth in advisors would not be -- would be a great trade for our company.
So our recruiting is strong we're net -- doing a decent job sort of hire and you hear a lot about.
That is not a big part of the advisor count several hundred a year like probably 200 to 300 but with the drive of our advisor and capabilities of our client there’s a broader build out of the team switch the BFAs and T&amp;Ds that work at the branches on cases and grow the people in there.
That just were down to our benefit overtime although it's had a little drag on profitability right now it's the best.
Great thanks for that.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby from Vining Sparks.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask about the asset liability management.
When you look at the market adjustments that you had at $669 million this quarter as rates go up there is less and less impact from that.
How much is remaining in the next 50 basis points in just the prepayment speed slowing down? Yeah I don't have 50 basis points Marty but the number we quoted was on a 100 basis point move the FAS 91 benefit would be $775 million.
Okay perfect.
And then when you're talking about the -- being able to see the margin go up in the back half of the year because of the current steepness of the yield curve does that include some utilization in the sense of increasing your securities portfolio while you invest some of the liquid assets that you have on the balance sheet? There is clearly some of that because we would expect as we go forward with the comp position of the balance sheet that there will be incremental cash to that's generated.
Obviously some of that goes into loan growth and some of it goes into the investment portfolio.
So they're embedded in that.
Those comments is an assumption that there will be a little bit more to be invested.
And you mean it will range $10 million $20 million $30 million what's the -- any kind of rule of thumb there? I would think of it as on the low end of that during the third quarter and a comparable amount in the fourth.
And there is one other thing that I did want to correct that I said earlier that if you look at the securities balances yields the stability that we saw once you adjust for FAS 91 was Q1 to Q2.
Got you.
And lastly this is a new launch.
But when you look at the trading activity typically in the past when I had a trading activity in the bank that I was managing when you have a steepening of the yield curve you get some pickup as you get in the current long term yield funded by short term rates.
The rate on the trading activity account did not go up this quarter but averaging into the next quarter would you expect some benefit there? I think if you look at -- I think the important thing is that there is -- so that rate tends to manifest itself in the market based NII.
There are lot of things that drive that when rates move around as much as they have.
But I don't think there is any question that overtime as you're in an increasing rate environment that there is a part of the yield component that flows through NII that you would expect to get a little bit better.
I’m just more focused on the steepness versus the flattening of the yield curve.
A steeper yield curve typically brings little better spread of the trading account.
It would but the question is it will -- yeah it works this way true but it is -- if you look across long periods of time it's relatively constant.
Okay thanks.
Our next question is from Nancy Bush from NAB Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Guys just another liquidity issue.
Could you just tell us what's on deposit what excess deposit you've got with the Fed now and what are your plans are for those going forward? Okay at any one point in time it can move around but you should assume it’s comfortably about a$100 billion excuse me that's on the Fed in any one night during the quarter.
And I think that when you look at where we are with LCR where we are both the parent as well as the bank and I think in $484 billion of overall liquidity which is a record that we feel were in a reasonable place.
And I don't see significant changes going forward Nancy.
Okay you mean an overall liquidity or liquidity on deposit with Fed? Probably both.
Okay.
That’s a lot of liquidity? My second question Brian is for you.
I mean you've gone through a lot of change over the past few years and this transition of mobile et cetera et cetera but one of the things I still get from talking to people are persistent gripes about service quality particularly in the mortgage company.
Can you just tell us what your internal polling or whatever shows in terms of improvements in credit quality and how do you feel about that entire subject? I think in the mortgage business that for example the funds the bank originators we're number one in J.
D.
Power survey and I think we are number two or three overall mortgage company.
So I think in terms of originating mortgage [indiscernible] getting steeper Ron Sturzenegger [ph] has gotten that platform settled in and you will get momentary spikes where refi’s bump up and things slowdown.
From a getting it all done from a keeping our credit quality where we want it that ends up with us having some noise around people we don't get mortgages.
So we get the 15 [ph] that we did this quarter 30% of its low moderate incomes so we are still serving that segment.
But again we are not pushing for better terms in mortgage and I think you’d understand Nancy.
Yeah.
But how about just more the issue of service quality at the branches et cetera? Well if you look our customer scores continue to rise and -- almost on monthly basis in the broadest context of brand and part of that’s due to what happens at the branch part of it’s also due to this stuff going on around the company and that's gone from the low point in fourth quarter 2009 it rose fairly steadily so it’s been back to within 95% of where it was at its highest point in 2005 and '06.
So that we are satisfied.
If you actually go to the customer who actually get served when you measure all the channels which we measure with tens of thousands of customers a week and the month you find that those scores continue to go up and the top two box score I think were in the 70s to 80s at the various channels and including mortgage.
So I think because we just have a lot of customers you will find out once in a while we will bump [ph] up in our jobs.
But if you think about we've added mortgage production check-in accounts net new the credit cards and that’s -- the ramification that we give service and driving it the team has continued to work at it.
We're not perfect and while we will get better but I think if you look at it last three or four years it’s continued to get better.
All right thank you.
And by the way if you look at our deposit growth it continues to accelerate and over the top of CDs continued to run of year-over-year to $10 billion.
So we are up $31 billion in deposits in consumer year-over-year.
I think it is in CDs are probably down another $10 billion or so.
So think about that if people didn't like us a lot they wouldn't be giving us their core check-in accounts and that is happening more and more every quarter and that we will service well as rates change because we are a hugely primary focused check-in account company in the broad mass part of the business which is different than the past.
All right.
Good to hear.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi I just wanted a follow up on Betsy’s question at the start talking about expenses being at a run rate or maybe going lower.
The expenses are down $400 million year-over-year.
But if you look at your four business lines the revenues were down twice that implying a lot of the rest is coming through the other lines.
I guess I'm just wondering how much more there is to cut or should cut if the expenses are down again a quarter of million.
But the revenues in the core business lines down $800 million.
How do you balance that trade off? I think the first thing that you have to keep in mind Mike when you quote the numbers within the business is on a year-over-year basis you have two significant things happening.
You've had FAS 91 and the significant movement in rate as it relates to push out of those charges as well as as we push the LCR out to the businesses that from a reported segment perspective that has a significant impact.
And so I think as we've gone through the presentation that the numbers that I would focus on are very much what's going on within the segments looking at the fee income lines because there is activity from a net interest income perspective of greater activity within the businesses.
So I'd be a little bit careful with that characterization and I think in that context I go back to Brian's initial comments which we continue to push hard we’re adding client facing personnel across the company at the same time we are reducing aggregate headcount and that’s leading to declines in the expense numbers and we’re very very focused on continuing to keep that balance as we go forward.
Okay.
Just to understand because I am looking at your slides slide 17 and the other slides in your presentation deck looked at the four slides related to GWIM Global Banking Global Markets Consumer Banking I took second quarter of 2015 versus second quarter of 2014 and looked at the delta in revenues and that’s how I got the $800 million decline so you would say which adjustment should we make from that? Let’s just take -- we will take GWIM because I have got that number on the top of my head Mike.
I think year-over-year the difference in GWIM NII allocation through this sort of [indiscernible] and those things is Bruce how much…? Yes let’s just go through relative to the second quarter of ‘14 you have got consumer from an overall NII impact was more than $200 million GWIM was as Brian said roughly $130 million overall investment bank our global banking was a couple of hundred million and then you have the minimus amounts within markets in LAS.
So that is nothing more than us changing the allocation method.
It’s because of LTR things becoming important so we push down the business to get the behavior of the businesses aligned with the parent.
So this is why you have to be a little careful about micro assessing these movements because things change and the methodology year-over-year and we don’t go back and restate this we didn’t do it last year.
Okay.
I will follow up on that.
So just are you comfortable are you satisfied with the revenue progression that you have had no matter how you take a look at it? We are satisfied that we are starting to see the hard work of all our teammates come through but we are not satisfied in the sense that we expect better performance on both the revenue expense line in the future.
We said that we’ll keep working at it but if you look at it over the last several quarters we’ll see the stability in revenues but continued work on expenses both in the dollars but also the headcount you have ‘15 straight quarters 3 000 or more personnel reductions per quarter is a pretty strong record that shows that we are disciplined [in cutting costs].
And then a separate question I think it’s first time you have listed ROA and ROE on the first page of your press release and should we read anything into that that you are more focused on achieving these targets with a specific time frame or kind of what changed? It maybe the pagination.
It’s been listed in our documents consistently Mike so...
We are all focused on those goals and we’ve told you that last time you asked the question.
And then lastly just I know I have asked this question before is there a specific timeframe that you commit to to achieve your ROA and ROE goals? Mike as I told you Dan and me [ph] will be there with a few other people and asked me questions on this question we have the building blocks in place to get us to where we are and we consider building blocks are in a place to get us to our goals and there are external factors with the rate increase and stuff that are -- you see the market curve that’s changed just in the last 15 days this quarter and has moved around dramatically.
So we are going ahead with our control elements we continue to drive and see the progression towards next several quarters as we told you.
And I think if I could -- just to be clear we talked about a 100 basis points and 12% to 14% return on tangible common equity obviously at 99 basis points we are bumping right up against that.
And I think what’s important is as you look to the past to what we have talked we are basically there in the second quarter you can say you have the $700 million in FAS 91 the 400 of loan sale gains and a couple of hundred million from rep and warrant provision but what I think is interesting and as you look at the past Eric if you look at and assume the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve what that would mean in the quarter as well as if we ultimately get to where our LAS expense goals are you basically back to all other things being equal where we were this quarter.
So what was articulated is something where you couldn’t see a path or a way to get there.
I think it was a step forward this quarter as far as seeing how we can get there.
All right thank you.
And we will take our final question from Christopher Wheeler from Atlantic Equities.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning gentlemen and I am sorry to raise the subject of cost again.
But I just want to square away what you said I think to Betsy’s question at the very beginning.
So what you said at the conference back in May when you actually said that if the trading revenues didn’t pick up you would have to adjust costs further.
I just wondered where you were on that because obviously trading revenues were down about 2% year-on-year I think in the quarter and I am having to assume that the start of the quarter has been pretty bumpy with Greece and China.
So could you just talk a little bit about how you see that perhaps also talk a little bit about how you might address that situation in global markets and global banking in respect of the U.S.
business and the international businesses because it is very clear that the U.S.
business seems to be offering more opportunities not just because they are more buoyant but also because you’re seeing European bank play a lesser role than obviously seeing three of the big banks getting new CEOs in the last few weeks.
I hardly imagine they are going to be allocating more capital to investment banking? Thank you.
Let me take a stab at a couple of parts of that question.
The first is and I think you referenced that what would you do if global market expenses were lower at a go-forward basis.
I think this quarter was reflective of the way you’d expect us to manage it which is the pure sales and trading number was down 2% and total expenses within the segment were down 5%.
So I think some of what Brian communicated in May you saw evidence of that happening during the quarter.
The second thing that I would say is that it’s obviously early in the quarter but I wouldn’t draw any conclusions as to overall performance based on the volatility that we’ve seen during the first couple of weeks to the negative.
And then third I think your question was and is just that with what’s going on within some of the European banks as well as changes in management and questions around capital how does that translate and what are you seeing in the U.S.
business.
I think I’d say is that we obviously have significant share in the U.S.
business.
We’re looking to do a better job of that and I think that as you look at some of the loan growth that we’ve seen that it’s reflective of the fact that we’re deepening in the U.S.
but just as importantly that loan growth is not only in the U.S.
its’ throughout Europe.
There’s been a little bit in Latin America and there’s been growth in Asia Pac.
So we are looking to use some of these market opportunities as a basis to deepen and look to grow the overall global banking segment.
Thanks very much thank you.
Thank you everyone.
That’s the last question and we look forward to talk to you next quarter.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks to everybody on the phone thanks on the webcast for joining us as well.
Welcome to the third quarter results.
Hopefully everybody has had a chance to review the earnings release.
It is only available on the Bank of America Investor Relations website.
So before I turn over the call to Brian let me just remind you we have a new CFO that will be going through the results this morning Mr.
Paul Donofrio.
And so we will -- we may make some forward-looking statements.
For further information on those please refer to either our earnings release documents on our website or our SEC filings.
So with that I will turn it over to Brian.
Thank you Lee and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third quarter results.
Today we reported $4.5 billion in after tax earnings or $0.37 per diluted share.
When we think about the quarter the key message is we continued to make good progress in a tough revenue environment due to low interest rates and a sluggish economic recovery.
In addition with the late summer's volatility especially the fixed income trading markets are remaining challenging.
So with that we produced another good quarter of progress in all the businesses.
Before Paul takes you through the details of the quarter I want to provide a little context from my vantage point.
We continued to make progress towards our full earnings capacity here at Bank of America and this quarter represents the fourth consecutive quarter of solid results following the resolution of our large legacy exposures in the third quarter of last year.
When you think about it over the last four quarters we have reported over $16 billion in after-tax income.
That compares to the previous four quarters leading us to the third quarter of 2014 of about 5.2 billion including the significant litigation cost.
Returns over the last four quarters in aggregate generated an ROA of about 76 basis points and a 10% return on tangible common equity.
This quarter we were able to keep the absolute level of our balance sheet flat to the second quarter.
But by doing that we continued to replace discretionary assets with good core customer loans and we believe that is a very good trend.
We continue to build record liquidity and we believe we are well positioned against 2017 LCR requirements.
Our capital is again at record levels and we returned over $3 billion back to shareholders so far this year through common share repurchases and dividends.
Our tangible book value per share improved this quarter to $15.50.
It is the highest level in many many years.
So I am going to spend a couple more minutes focusing on a few drivers in our business.
Our teams here at Bank of America are focused on the everyday engagement with our customers deepening relationships by growing the core things we do with them deposits loans managing their risks helping them invest their assets all while keeping our cost down and you can see that in our results.
When you think about our deposit franchise we grew $50 billion in deposits over the last year on an all-organic basis.
That in and of itself is a large bank.
As a reminder our consumer franchise is the largest retail bank in the United States.
In our consumer banking business as you can see we grew revenue and earnings year-over-year despite the low interest rate environment.
We have been restructuring our branch structure selling some branches closing some branches and changing account structures and with that this quarter our core consumer checking accounts continued to grow.
We grew those accounts and improved the percentage of those customers who use us as a primary bank and importantly the average balance per account continues to grow.
On cards on credit cards we issued another 1.3 million credit cards this quarter and active accounts continued to grow.
The good news is we are doing it through the lowest cost possible through our core franchise much lower than other means of growth.
When you go to the change in our financial services business for mobile and digital banking we now have 18.4 million active mobile customers and 31 million active online customers.
Digital sales this quarter were up 30% over the last year.
More customers are using mobile device to deposit checks and access their accounts and now are starting to buy products as well as book appointments.
To get a sense of that we are now booking 15 000 appointments a week off of our mobile devices.
Our Merrill Lynch teammates who work within our consumer business helped push us through a new standard of 2 million accounts this quarter.
When we go to our wealth management business this business is showing the effects of lower market valuations pressuring revenue but actively here has reflected good long term flows good deposit flows and good loan growth.
In addition we continued to invest in long-term growth in this business.
More advisors better products and better advice in building and preserving wealth for our clients and these clients continue to use the full range of our products including banking products.
As we switch to our commercial banking business the business we call global banking loans to commercial and corporate clients around the globe grew nicely from last quarter and the year-ago quarter.
And although investment banking fees were down year-over-year the industry fee pools appeared to be down as much or more.
We maintained our leadership across many of the products.
In our global markets business despite the challenging market conditions in the late August and September timeframe we reported $1 billion in after-tax earnings in that business.
Excluding DDA impacts this is the best third quarter in earnings for this business we have seen in recent memory.
Our net interest income in the company is benefiting from loan and deposit growth showing momentum this quarter after you exclude the impact of FAS 91.
Focusing on expenses which we have talked to you much about we continue to hold our costs in check.
Expense less litigation LAS costs remain well below the $13 billion threshold at $12.7 billion and that was in line with our second quarter despite the additional costs of CCAR and additional investments in the business.
We are taking the benefits of our simplify and improve program which keeps our costs flat while we continue to invest in customer-facing client people to grow our businesses.
This ability to invest in growth is key to driving our franchise forward.
When you go to the risk side of the house credit risk remains very strong market risk remains subdued and we get a great return on that VAR as you look at it across the competitors.
We continue to feel good about our legacy exposure risk and LAS business continues to work itself down.
So in the context of the environment we faced we are operating what we feel is a solid quarter and as evidenced the continuing progress on our strategy our strategy of responsible growth with our customs.
With that let me hand it over to Paul.
Thanks Brian good morning everybody.
Starting on slide 3 we present the summary of our income statement and returns for this quarter as well as Q2 and Q3 last year.
As Brian said we earned $4.5 billion in the quarter compared to a loss of a couple hundred million dollars last year and earnings of $5.3 billion in Q2.
Earnings per share this quarter were $0.37.
Let me mention a few larger items that in aggregate benefited diluted EPS this quarter by a penny.
First a negative $597 million market related NII adjustments primarily FAS 91 cost us about $0.03.
More than offsetting this was a $0.02 benefit from DVA of $313 million and a $0.02 benefit from a collective impact of three other items; gains from selling some consumer real estate loans tax benefits from restructuring some of the non-U.S.
subsidiaries and a provision for payment protection insurance in the UK.
Revenues were 20.9 billion this quarter expenses were 13.8 billion significantly lower than a year ago because of litigation costs and compared to Q2 expenses were flat as we managed costs well while investing in our franchise.
Return on assets was 82 basis points this quarter and return on tangible common equity was 10%.
Turning to slide 4 the balance sheet ended basically flat relative to Q2 with assets of 2.15 trillion.
However we grew deposits 12 billion from Q2 while long-term debt declined by approximately 6 billion.
Liquidity rose to nearly $500 billion a record level and the time required for funding is now three and half years.
Tangible common equity of 162 billion improved because of earnings supplemented by 1.5 billion in OTI.
This was partially offset by 1.3 billion in capital return to common shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Tangible book value increased 10% from Q3 last year and our tangible common equity ratio grew to 7.8% as equity improvements outpaced asset growth.
With regard to regulatory capital I want to start by pointing out that our transition ratios under Basel III increased with CET1 ending the quarter at 11.6%.
However I will focus my comments on Basel III fully phased in regulatory capital ratios.
CET1 capital improved 4.8 billion to 153 billion driven by net income positive OTI and DTA utilization.
This was partially offset by capital returned to shareholders.
Under the standardized approach our CET1 ratio improved to 10.8% as risk-weighted assets decreased modestly even as loans grew.
Under the standardized approaches the CET1 ratio increased from 10.4% to 11% as RWA improved by roughly 30 billion largely due to reductions in risk.
During the quarter we announced that we exited parallel loans and we will begin reporting under the advanced approaches beginning in 4Q.
So we have also presented our CET1 ratio for 9/30 on a pro forma basis which includes the addition of approximately 170 billion in RWA primarily for wholesale credit under the advanced approaches.
The pro forma CET1 ratio at 9/30 was 9.7% an increase of approximately 40 basis points from Q2 on the same pro forma basis.
In terms of the supplementary leverage ratio we estimate that as of 9/30 we continue to exceed U.S.
rules applicable at the beginning of 2018 at both bank and parent.
Turning to slide 5 we grew loans and deposits both of which are key drivers to our financial performance.
We reported loans on an end of period basis increased 1.2 billion from Q2.
However underneath the consolidated number there was significant activity I want to take a moment to point out.
With that in mind let’s review why loans in all other and LAS are declining.
First the portion of our mortgages that we report in all other continue to run off due to pay downs.
This run off is being replaced by new loans which are now reported in business segments like GWIM and consumer where they are originated.
Second also in all other we converted 6.2 billion of mortgages with long-term standby agreements into securities thereby improving HQLA.
These types of conversions are largely complete.
Third we sold roughly 3.6 billion of other mortgages and NPLs as we continue to clean up and optimize the balance sheet.
Lastly in LAS where we report our legacy home equity portfolio second lien loans continue to run off.
Now if one excludes the above activities in LAS and all other ending loans in our primary lending segments increased $19 billion or 3% from Q2.
Turning to deposits on an ending basis they reached 1.16 trillion this quarter growing 50 billion or 4% over Q3 last year.
We produced solid growth across the franchise.
Global banking grew deposits 6% year-over-year.
GWIM grew 3% and consumer grew 7%.
However as you can see at the bottom right if one includes CD run off consumer deposits grew 10%.
We have also included two other tables to give you a sense of the composition of our deposits.
Turning to quality on slide 6 I won't spend a lot of time here as asset quality continued to be strong and mostly consistent with Q2.
Net charge offs were flat around 930 million versus adjusted Q2 Q3 provision expense of 806 million and we released a net 126 million in reserves.
Releases in consumer real estate and credit cards were partially offset by reserve builds in commercial.
In commercial we saw small increases in reserve over criticized exposure from Q2 driven by a downgrades in oil and gas that were partially offset by some improvements in the rest of the commercial portfolio.
Also noteworthy the increase in oil and gas reserve over criticized in Q3 was less than half the size of the increase from Q1 to Q2.
Turning to slide 7 net interest income on a reported FTE basis was 9.7 billion declining 1 billion from Q2.
The decline in long end rates in the quarter caused adjustments in our bond premium amortization which resulted in a linked quarter decline in NII of 1.3 billion partially offset by good growth in NII otherwise.
The Q2 adjustment increased NII by 669 million while the Q3 adjustment decreased NII by 597 million.
NII excluding these adjustments improved 292 million from Q2 to 10.3 billion.
Three factors drove this increase.
First we grew core commercial loans.
Second we improved the composition of the balance sheet and our global markets business which improved trading related NII.
And third we benefited from one extra day in the quarter.
With regard to asset sensitivity at the end of the third quarter our overall asset sensitivity increased as a result of the decline in long end rates which drove the FAS 91 adjustment.
As of 9/30 an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately 4.5 billion over the subsequent year with a little more than half of that improvement caused by increases in short end rates.
Turning to slide 8 non-interest expense was 13.8 billion in Q3 matching the level of expense reported in Q2.
The 20.1 billion expense in Q3 last year included 6 billion in litigation costs.
Litigation this quarter and in Q2 was less than 250 million.
Excluding litigation expenses were 13.6 billion in the quarter a decline of 600 million or 4% from last year and consistent with Q2 despite additional costs related to our CCAR submission.
Headcount continues to trend lower down 6% compared to Q3 last year.
LAS costs excluding litigation were relatively stable compared to Q2.
However we still expect to lower that number to roughly 800 million in Q4 and move lower in 2016.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter we tend to experience some seasonal increase in expenses as we close out the year.
Let’s walk through the business segments starting on slide 9 with consumer banking.
Consumer earned 1.8 billion 5% greater than Q3 last year.
The business segment generated strong 24% return on allocated capital.
Revenue increased over last year as increases in non-interest income outpaced the decline in NII.
With respect to NII compared to last year the benefit of higher deposit levels was more than offset by the allocation of ALM activity and lower card yields [ph].
Non-interest income benefited from divestiture gains as well as higher card income driven by increased customer activity while service charges declined.
Expenses declined from Q3 last year despite a 5% increase in sales specialist and higher fraud costs in advance of ruling changes regarding EMV chip implementation.
Those increases were offset by savings from the continued optimization of our delivery network.
The cost of operating our deposit franchise remains low at 180 basis points and the consumer bank reported an efficiency ratio of 57%.
We continue to experience shifts in consumer activity away from branches towards self-service options.
Self-service trends are driven by mobile banking online banking and ATM usage.
Mobile banking customers increased to 18.4 million and deposits via mobile devices now represent 14% of consumer deposit transactions.
Mobile processing is better for us and it is better for our customers.
It is one-tenth the cost relative to processing of financial centers and more convenient for customers.
On slide 10 we present key drivers and trends.
Average loans grew across mortgages card and vehicle lending.
Deposits as Brian mentioned continued to increase particularly if one excludes the impact of CD declining.
On this basis deposits were up 10% from the year ago.
Regarding brokerage assets Merrill Lynch accounts crossed the 2 million mark and are up 2% while asset levels are up 8% from last year even with declines in equity markets this year.
Mortgage production although up from 3Q last year was down from 2Q as refinances declined.
In the future mortgage banking income in the consumer segment will be lower by approximately $30 million per quarter given the Q3 sale of a small appraisal business.
A similar amount of expense should reduce quarterly as well.
Looking at our card activity card issuance was strong at 1.3 million.
Combined credit and debit spending volumes were up 3% from last year despite the decline in fuel prices.
Average outstandings were down slightly from Q3 last year as customers paid off more of their balances.
However average balances showed modest growth over Q2.
U.S.
card credit volume was strong as net charge offs declined this quarter to a decade low of 2.5% driving risk-adjusted margins higher to 9.3% excluding divestitures.
Turning to service charges they were down moderately versus Q2 last year -- Q3 last year as we continued to open higher quality accounts that carry higher balances.
These higher quality accounts tend to have fewer account fees.
Turning to slide 11 global wealth and investment management produced earnings of $656 million.
Results were down from Q3 last year driven by lower market values and lower [indiscernible] client activity.
Compared to Q3 last year asset management fees were up 2% but more than offset by declines in transactional revenues.
The trend of lower transactional revenues continued this quarter as clients migrated from brokerage to managed relationships which was compounded by lower markets and muted new issuance.
On NII the benefits of higher loan and deposit flows was more than offset by the company's ALM activities driving NII down from Q3 last year.
Non-interest expense was modestly higher than the year ago period as litigation costs were higher and wealth advisors grew 6%.
Pre-tax margin was 23% down from a strong Q3 last year.
Margins were pressured this quarter by a few factors.
First markets declined pressuring revenue across many products especially those in which we record transactional revenues.
Second operating leverage was challenged as areas of revenue where incentives are high like asset management grew while NII where incentives are much lower declined.
Moving to slide 12 despite the lower market levels business drivers improved.
Wealth advisors were up almost 1000 or 6% from Q3 last year.
Long-term AUM flows were more than 4 billion deposits increased more than 7 million average loans were up 10% from last year our 22nd consecutive quarter of loan growth in this segment.
The last thing I would note that’s not shown here is referral rates across the company remained strong.
For example our retirement solutions business continues to win in the marketplace.
We have won more than 1200 retirement plans year-to-date many of which were referred from global banking.
On a year-to-date basis this is up more than 40% from 2014.
Turning to slide 13 global banking’s earnings were 1.3 billion generating a 14% return on allocated capital.
Earnings declined from Q3 last year but were up modestly versus Q2.
The comparison to Q3 last year reflects higher provision expense and lower NII driven by the company’s ALM activities as well as increased liquidity costs.
Additionally we saw year-over-year compression in loans spread; however loan growth was a positive contributor to NII.
Growth from Q2 reflects improved NII from loan and deposit growth.
Regarding provision expense while flat to Q2 it is up 243 million from last year.
We added 125 million to reserves in Q3 compared to a release of 116 million in the year ago quarter.
Looking at trends on slide 14 let’s first focus on fees relative to the same period last year given seasonality.
Despite a lower level of IBCs this quarter we maintained our number three global fee position and believe we increased our market share as industry fees pools declined.
Investment banking fees for the company this quarter were 1.3 billion down 5% from Q3 last year.
Advisory fees were up 24%.
Debt underwriting was down modestly equity underwriting was down from Q3 last year in line with industry volume declines.
Outside of IB our treasury fees improved from Q2 on increased activity.
Looking at the balance sheet loans on average were $310 billion up 9% year-over-year and a similar percent relative to Q2 on an annualized basis.
The growth was broad across both corporate and commercial borrowers and asset quality was consistent with our overall portfolio.
Importantly the decline in spreads year-over-year flattened as the decline from Q2 was relatively small.
On deposits we saw good performance with average deposits increasing by $8 billion over Q2 and we continued to optimize the portfolio improving the composition towards higher quality deposits from an overall LCR perspective.
Switching to global markets on slide 15 earnings were $1 billion on revenue of $4.1 billion despite challenging markets.
We generated 11% return this quarter.
Earnings were up from Q3 last year which included litigation cost of roughly $600 million most of which was non-deductible for tax purposes.
As you can see we had a net DVA gain this quarter which was higher than last year.
Total revenues excluding net DVA declined from Q3 last year driven by lower fixed sales and trading and to a lesser extent IBCs offset partially by improved equity sales and trading.
Non-interest expense excluding litigation improved a $102 million versus Q3 last year up 4% improvement.
Moving to trends on slide 16 and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance.
Sales and trading revenue of $3.2 billion excluding net DVA is down 4% from Q3 last year.
Comparing to the same period a year ago fixed sales and trading revenue declined 11%.
Similar to the first half of this year the year-over-year comparisons reflect good activity and macro related products like rates and after tax.
Conversely market activity remained muted in credit products driving lower client activity this quarter than Q3 last year.
As a reminder our mix remains more heavily weighted towards credit products driven by the strength of our new issues capability and market share.
Equity rose 12% driven by strong performance in equity derivatives reflecting favorable market conditions.
Asset levels were down modestly from Q3 last year.
Turning to legacy asset servicing on slide 17 this segment lost roughly $200 million.
I want to focus on three things here; the reduction in delinquent loans mortgage banking income and expenses and compare each to Q2.
First the number of delinquency for mortgage loans continued to decline down 14% this quarter as the teams continued to work through solutions for customers.
Second mortgage banking income declined by more than $400 million.
This decline was driven primarily by three factors servicing fees declined about $50 million as the units we serviced declined.
Net MSR and hedge performance declined a $100 million driven by gains on MSR sales in Q2.
Reps and warranty provisions swung nearly $300 million from a benefit of $204 million in Q2 to a provision of $77 million this quarter.
Lastly I want to focus on expenses which excluding litigation were flat compared to Q2 as increased professional fees offset improved operating cost from the decline in delinquent loans.
We believe we were on-track to achieve our goal of reducing expenses excluding litigation to approximately $800 million in Q4.
On slide 18 we show all other which primarily includes our ALM actions and the operations of our UK card business and other smaller activities.
While other reported a $503 million pretax loss more than offset by certain tax benefits.
The pretax loss was a result of a negative NII market related adjustments and an increase in provisioning for UK credit card payment protection insurance.
This was partially offset by gains from securities and loan sales.
Regarding the change in PPI liability we increased it because of a notice of future regulatory guidance regarding treatments of claims and a case ruling.
A comment or two on taxes before we wrap up.
The Company's effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%.
It was lower than Q2 due to the tax benefits I mentioned earlier.
I will expect the tax rate to be roughly 30% next quarter excluding unusual items and specifically the UK the recent UK tax proposals.
In terms of 2016 I would expect it to be in the low 30s.
As a reminder from last quarter's announcement we expect that the UK tax proposal announced in July will result in a one-time tax charge of approximately $300 million upon enactment from revaluing our UK DTAs.
Let me conclude our prepared comments by offering these takeaways.
Although the U.S.
economy is improving slowly revenue growth remains challenging in this interest rate environment.
We are focused on those things we can control and drive these includes delivering for our clients and customers within our risk framework and driving those things we know will result in sustainable profits and returns.
Our results reflect this focus.
We grew both loans and deposits across our business.
We delivered to our corporate institutional clients in a challenging market environment.
We stayed focused on managing risk and we kept cost in check while investing in the business.
We are getting better positioned each quarter for the current business environment and we remain well positioned to benefit when rates rise.
With that let's open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
And we can take our first question from Eric Wasserstrom from Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
I was just wondering if you can maybe just speak a little bit about the NII outlook given the dynamics about the stable balance sheet shifts within the balance sheet and how we should think about both the GAAP and adjusted NIM if the interest rate environment continues to look more or less like it does today.
Can you just kind of help us think through what all those dynamics mean for NII? Sure so I am assuming some loan growth and adjusting for day count we would expect normalized NII excluding marketable adjustments to be flat to grind up and as long as rates don’t decline in the future.
In the fourth quarter we think they’ll wind up slightly based upon the realization of the expected forward curve and some loan growth.
Okay and with respect to the loan growth is that in the context of growth in the overall balance sheet or continued stability given mix shift? I think we just look at commercial loans year-over-year at 10% last quarter up 3% so you got to annualize that out and what we’re looking at is that we replaced discretionary assets with actually good core assets.
So whether the balance sheet grows a little bit or not is not as critical as the assets.
So it is probably driven in near-term more by mix than aggregate size growth on a GAAP basis.
Okay thanks very much.
Hi wondering on expenses you kept the core expenses flat to last quarter.
Did you digest additional CCAR expenses and also some cost related to the proxy vote? What are the puts and takes in keeping that flat and what’s your outlook on the core expenses going from here in this kind of environment? Sure so the short answer to your question but then I’d like to elaborate a little bit more is yes we kept core expenses flat and we absorbed CCAR expenses and other investments in the business in the quarter.
Just take a step back I think the way we would ask you to think about expenses is we are seeing good expense progress within our business importantly as we continue to invest in the future.
So core expenses which everybody excludes litigation LAS are expected to remain relatively flat at probably a little less than 13 billion per quarter in a moderately improving business environment.
As we invest in growth and [indiscernible] other initiatives to offset inflationary pressures.
If the business environment is close we would have to adjust.
If the business environment is better we are going to use SIM and other efforts to improve the operating leverage of this company even as incentives and other expenses increase.
One more point Brian I would remind everybody that we did guide you that we would have increasing cost expenses in the second half of the year so we do have a little bit of that in the fourth quarter as well.
So John just when you think about it from a headcount perspective because that’s what going to drive our 60% people cost now.
For the quarter we are down by 1.5 in that we actually had an increase in client facing headcount for the quarter of 1.6.
So basically we are able to achieve a reduction while we continue to invest.
On top of that the risk in CCAR FTE count was up about 400 for the quarter and other business hiring especially the new kids from school were up about a thousand.
So to attrition and then through other reductions we got that down in that 1.5.
So if you follow that course last quarter we were down 3 000 or so and that was just 15 quarters in a row or something like that.
We are down a little less this quarter which is expected to be similar pickup next quarter.
So the 12.7 we did in the second quarter remember was a surprise to all of you.
We called it flat this quarter which I think exceeds what our expectations were.
We are laser focused on keeping it to that kind of level where we continue to invest in the thousand plus people to go generate the business growth you are starting to see.
Okay and Paul in terms of their credit outlook do you expect to kind of bounce around here you got charge offs in the low 900s and you did about 100 million reserve release so charge off is 900 provision is 800 is that the kind of ballpark you expect to stay in near term? I would expect to see provision in 2016 roughly you know where it is today.
So that’s around 800 a quarter something like that ballpark? Yes because we are going to get a little help.
John if you look at it you still got a little excess mortgage charge offs going through.
Card continues to work its way down because of this period of credit quality and the question on the commercial side is bouncing around gets lumpy.
But if you look at the reserve release we are down to 100 so think of that sort of 800 to 900 range a quarter and I think that is a way to think about it over the next several quarters.
Okay thank you.
Hi good morning.
Paul I just wanted to ask you to elaborate a little bit on the comment that you made during prepared remarks regarding the composition of the balance sheet improving and that being a benefit for trading related NII could you just talk through what you did and is that sustainable the benefits to NII? Sure I think the answer is we just sold for lack of better word sold some lower yielding assets that we used to run our business and markets and we positioned them to high yielding assets.
So maybe we led a little bit of as an example we would do a little bit less in prime brokerage and a little bit more in fixed income where some -- yields are higher.
Okay and then on the conversion of loans to securities for HQLA given the fact that you mentioned that is done what kind of core loan growth are we looking for as we move forward here? Well by core do you mean loan growth in the business segments or for the consolidated company.
Well I guess I will take the consolidated more than anything.
Yes so we grew in loans as a consolidated company year-over-year by 1%.
It was up slightly quarter-over-quarter.
I wish that we would be able to continue to grow the whole company in the sort of -- in that range.
You can see faster growth in the core lending businesses.
We grew that year-over-year at 9%.
I am not going to stand here and tell you that we are going to do that every quarter but we would expect to see more robust growth in our lending segments.
You have to remember that in LAS home-equity loans are still coming down and in the discretionary portfolio even though we are not going to have $6 billion -- as much as $6 billion LTSE conversions we still are going to see first mortgages run off there.
And just then lastly on this topic when you are thinking about reinvesting deposit growth etc.
in securities where are you relative to your new investments in securities versus what the portfolio yields are are you close to breakeven there or…? In terms of the running off yields Betsy versus the coming on yield? Correct.
It is relatively stable.
Okay.
Our portfolio has been priced down over the years and so it is relatively stable.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Can you give us an update on the CCAR resubmission and then also comment on some of the management changes that occurred there as you think about the 2016 process just how you might approach it differently or similar to what you have done in the past? Why don’t I start with CCAR and then maybe Brian will speak to some management.
So in terms of CCAR we submitted our resubmission on September 30 as planned.
That had the involvement of the leadership of the company and the Board significant involvement for the line of business.
We tried to keep the regulators involved and up to speed every step of the way and they have until 75 days after that submission to get back to us.
Yes in terms of the change three months ago we told you that we are making the changes.
Nothing has changed and Terry continues to work on the CCAR process Terry Laughlin and Andrea has moved over as Chief Administrative Officer and been heading the process from the day that we announced it.
And that transition will continue to take place over the period of time between now and the next CCAR submission in 2016.
Okay and then just separately in terms of the credit quality comments that you provided for the next several quarters how are you thinking about energy as part of that? I think we mentioned in the prepared remarks that our criticized assets were up modestly.
If you sort of dive into the oil and gas segment you will remember last quarter we increased in criticized assets about $1 billion because of oil and gas.
This quarter we saw that increase decline significantly to about 40% of that level and then be offset by improvements in the rest of the portfolio.
So we saw a modest increase in criticized assets.
We feel pretty good right now where we are with oil and gas.
As you know our clients are going through the redetermination process.
Just a big picture question following up on that there was a lot of concern I think among credit folks that energy default is have increased a lot and will continue to increase from here but we are not really seeing all that much pressure with either you guys or the banks.
Is it -- are you guys higher in the structure different customer base why do you think there is kind of less pressure with you guys than we are seeing for the industry as a whole outside of banks? I think the answer is yes.
The hiring structure and from lot of the risk is distributed out to investors and things like that.
The Company has had reserve base methodologies our hedge involved and it is more complex I think than oil price changes.
So I think as you look at it our lending portfolio is done consistent with our quality standards and had held pretty well under the significant change in oil revenue from oil price changes.
And large corporates we are just dealing with larger companies that have a lot of different options and in middle market as Brian said a lot of that lending secure.
If you look at our overall energy portfolio we are about 22ish and really only about 40% of that really isn’t tied.
Of course everything in that sector is tied in some way to oil and gas but 40% of that’s not really directly tied to the price of oil and gas.
So when you start just walking through the numbers and you whittle that down and then you whittle it down for the number of loans that we have where we have reserves it gets to something I think that is manageable.
Okay thank you very much.
Hey good morning Paul just a quick question on the liability side of the balance sheet.
You had highlighted that the long term debt was down $6 billion or so in the quarter.
I know that long term debt cost were down about 11 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Is that sustainable in the context of TLAC as there is just some movement underneath the hood or is it timing just kind of help me think about where that footprint and cost go from here? Sure but we generally don’t comment on our issuance plans.
I guess the only guidance I would give you is we are going to try to have prefer that’s roughly 1.5% of tier 1 capital and sub debt that’s roughly 2%.
And in terms of TLAC we don’t know what the rules are yet.
We may have to issue a little bit more debt but based upon what we are hearing at least from the rumor perspective it looks to be quite manageable.
Technically quarter-to-quarter there were some hedges that went from a deduct to a benefit -- that is the other way around the change that rate.
So I wouldn’t think that the rates the underlying rates haven’t changed much is the way to think about it.
There is just a hedge cost and a hedge benefit that came through that increased the spread.
Or you were referring to the decline in the yield sorry.
That’s all helpful and maybe just on the loan growth side what are you seeing on the demand side consumer has begun to pickup for you guys where are you seeing the most strength and do you think the environment still is pretty positive from a loan demand perspective in the U.S.? Remember we are focused on in the consumer business on two things that we have been consistently focused on.
We are making loans to our customers i.e.
in connection with the whole franchise.
And then secondly we are staying in the very prime orientation so if you think about this quarter home-equity production was $3 billionish which was kind of consistent with other quarters that have grown from $1 billion up to $3 billion across the last couple of years and have been very consistent.
As Paul said earlier mortgage has tipped down a little bit but year-over-year they are up strong.
Little bit seasonality and there is a little bit of refi going out.
Our other lending business was still was strong.
The direct to consumer piece of that we didn’t have two three years ago.
We are at half billion dollar a quarter production so we are seeing good demand.
But part of it is just capturing that inherent client share wallet share that we have been after and you’re seeing that materialize.
The other key honestly in terms of nominal growth for us is the one off non-core part that has gotten small enough over the last couple of years that we’ve overcome it.
So the only place we still have that hold from a quarter perspective is really the home equity business.
So we resized the card business and you are seeing all the hardwork the 1.3 million cards producing some loans even though it is a huge payment rate on that.
You are seeing the auto lending business close direct to consumer and then what we do with dealers and stuff.
They are strong and stable and you saw the car sales numbers strong and you are seeing the consumer real estate strong from the home equity production is solid.
So when you go over to GWIN you saw loan growth there between U.S.
trust and what we call structure lending but don’t think of it that way.
It is lending strategy assets wealth assets again also in the margin lending with more stable it was very stable.
I thought [indiscernible] we haven’t seen him change in our margin lending.
Lot of people think investors that lower the risk is basically been relatively stable across the last few months.
Okay great.
That is helpful.
Thanks.
Hello Steven.
Sorry can you hear me now.
Yes.
My apologies for that.
So one of your competitors revealed that their efforts to mitigate some of the GSIF indicators had actually helped push them into a lower GSIF bucket and looking at the metrics that have been published as of year-end it looks like you are actually closer to the lower end of that 3% threshold and we have seen some progress in terms of reduction of level 3 assets at your end I just wanted to see if you actually see opportunities to manage that bucket lower or somewhere closer to 2.5%? We always manage the balance sheet against all the different constraints and you can see the improvement in the pro forma advanced ratio by 40 basis points this quarter closing down the gap.
So we are always looking to manage the balance sheet; I wouldn’t put a lot of stake in us moving ourselves fundamentally in buckets at this point because we have been working at that the last three years to make sure that this rule came out that we have had ourselves positioned as well as we could.
So we will continue to work on it but I wouldn’t expect us to change.
If you look about risk assets and level 3 assets and things like that and our company continued to trend down.
We just worked the balance sheet.
I wouldn’t say that we expect to move our bucket.
We could but we don’t expect to.
Okay that is really helpful.
Thanks Brian.
And maybe just thinking into some of the GWIM guidance that Paul you had given earlier the negative operating leverage has been fairly pronounced which you acknowledged and I did appreciate the detail based on some of the specific factors that weigh on the margin such as litigation and maybe some remixing in terms of revenue.
But just wanted to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about that margin trajectory going forward assuming no elevated litigation and without any rate boost just to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about that profitability trajectory? Let me -- if you remember last quarter we talked a bit about this.
There are some things that will help us which are that some of the deal stuff runs off this year relative to next year which would give us some positive help round numbers nearly $100 million a quarter of expense.
So that’s just amortization that finally runs off so that is positive and I think Paul cited it and you cited back examples of some non-recurring things.
I think you have to be careful in the year-over-year comparisons on the margin because this business [indiscernible] big bank it’s harder to do one business at 250 to $1 billion deposit franchise big money franchise.
So all dynamics that we talked about from the corporate obviously hit them also.
And so they will benefit more by stability in that as we compare quarters and then hopefully they’ll grow out of that as they grow loans and deposits that’s the thing.
The question then comes down to more philosophically would you quit investing in new advisors to get a point on margin or so and in the context that business were in $600 million or $700 million after tax for us in the context needing to drive it to another level.
We still believe the right trait is to continue to invest in growth and the world changed and people weren’t becoming successful which they are we could change that.
And the thought is that we are adding advisors you don’t see that in other people’s franchises and we are doing in connection with consumer bank which is a critical increased success factor for our advisors.
In other words if we hire people in what they call BFAs that worked within a consumer franchise with our Merrill teams and we are seeing them get up to speed fast.
We think that’s a competitive advantage for people entering this business and we will continue to invest in that.
So if we can't see the successful pull back on that right now it is worth it for our shareholders and our customers.
Okay thanks for that detail Brian and maybe just one more from me on the investment banking side.
One of your competitors was talking about a pause in activity that they have experienced so far in 4Q.
I recognize it is early days but just wanted to get a sense as to what you are seeing within the global banking and markets businesses and also if you can provide just some additional color or detail on what you are seeing in the backlogs by channel that would be really helpful too.
I’ll let Paul hit that but in terms of the – but just want to make sure you are talking about trading or investment banking fees or both? Both? Okay Paul.
SO I guess in terms of the pipeline the pipeline right now looks quite – if this is investment banking fees pipeline right now looks quite strong.
There is a decent amount of M&amp;A in it the timing of which can move around a lot.
Some of the pipeline increase I guess can be attributed to transaction that were in our pipeline in the third quarter didn’t come out in the third quarter and we are now into the fourth quarter.
We saw that type of activity in ECM and as markets improve we hope that pipeline activity will come out.
In terms of sales and trading we talked a little bit about that in the prepared remarks.
We saw I think great activity in equity sales and trading as clients needed to rebalance risk or take advantage of opportunities.
But if we are in Asia we were getting some of that [flow] [ph] and feel good about it.
On the other hand we do have a strong FICC business that’s tied into issuance and the new issuance market in the third quarter wasn’t as strong so some of the flows just weren’t there.
Year over year - last year’s fourth quarter was pretty tough so I think [being better than that] [ph] wouldn’t be great performance in sales and trading but Tom and the team have got business pretty well positioned in terms of effectiveness.
And that’s why even with the slowdown in the latter part of the quarter we still made a billion bucks and you subtract out DVAs 800 million or so and that’s good performance numbers.
Alright great that’s it from me.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hi thanks a couple of quick follow ups.
Heard all your comments so no need to repeat on the feeling decent about credit quality and energy specifically.
Just looking for two pieces of info if you are willing to share either a reserve as a percentage of loans for energy specifically or it may be what percentage of the criticized exposure is energy related just get looking for more detail behind the comfort thanks? I don’t think we have any of that perspective with us handy and not sure we can disclose that but we’ll follow up with you if we do.
Okay worth trying.
In terms of what’s going on in terms of the mix shift on balance sheet added some of the discretionary assets and into the core loan growth I think everybody will take that all day long.
I am curious on if there are RWA implications that we need to think about is that a heavier RWA mix even though we’ll take it I am just curious on how that plays on the capital side? Yes I think that as we grow loans obviously our RWA is going to increase particularly on a standardized basis less of an increase on an advanced basis.
But they are completely tied and as you said we are comfortable with that given the interaction with our clients and the opportunities that brings to increase our margins relative to other investment opportunities.
I think as you think about it remember that if we go look at page 5 and you look at the content of what’s leading coming on especially in the consumer business and then think about running that through all kinds of models including the CCAR process and think about getting rid of $5 billion of home equity loans which are basically non performing and putting on $3 billion of good home equity loans that dynamic is pretty favorable to the overall sort of calculation and so.
It’s not only within category -- it is not only category it’s also within category that we are seeing improvement in credit quality on what’s coming on but especially when you run through models and things like that.
Okay I appreciate that.
One last one on you commented earlier about the strength in equities partially driven by the good performance in the derivatives business during the quarter.
I guess the question is it ebbs and flows but maybe over the last 12 months not just the last quarter is derivatives 40% 50% of overall equities is that a number you want to share.
Are you talking about the percentage of equities as a function of what? I am saying in any given period your equity markets revenues how much of that is driven via the derivatives business? I don’t have a number on top of my head but I think you can look at it in various pieces; we’re checking it out but you can remember that it is an integrated business.
It is between 30% and 40% we just found a number but remember it’s an integrated business so you can't say grow derivatives but the cash – because the clients do all things whether it's including fixed income and equity so we are going together so think 30% to 40%.
Understood alright thank you.
Hi good morning.
Brian just one question follow up on the loan side.
You talked about the demand and where you’re seeing it but I am just wondering in terms of like the no excuses growth mentality from a supply side where are the lending officers now in terms of like using the excess capacity to continue to grow the balance sheet is there still room from the BofA supply side to extend that growth on top of what the economy and the marketplace is giving you broadly? Yes I think so if you look at the different segments if you think about on the consumer side using – it’s more sales force growth and effectiveness in building that team.
And then also the digital sales coming up whether it is auto whether its credit cards are up dramatically.
So think of that engine as being both people and a machine for lack of better term.
But don’t think of it as changing credit quality or taking any kind of more risk so Tom and Dean that run that business for us has done a good job and so I’d say the supply has been more from a delivery capacity than it is from an expanding the box or anything like that.
We really kept it to where we want it and we think that holds us in good stead as you think through all the different dynamics on company.
When you go to the commercial side it is simply couple of things and a very small business which is reported in consumer we have actually seen that business stabilize and start to make its way out of runoff position and that’s again more automated scored approach we sped up approval times and done a lot of work to make ourselves more competitive more on delivery than credit.
But if you go on business banking commercial banking and global corporate investment banking segment our three versions [Indiscernible] the team they’ve actually hired over a 100 people loan officers this year.
So they could add 10% to 15% growth on loan officers.
Got them hired and they are working it takes time for them to get up to speed.
[Alistair] [ph] looking at our middle market business.
I think there’s about 60 this year something like that 70 people delivering and running products and things behind that also is treasury services people.
So again capacity expansion in the global corp investment bank work differently.
As we look at middle market I think that is scenario where we are we used to think if we are going to take 10 let’s only take 8 that’s better.
We are now telling our teams we need to understand why you are not taking 10 if that’s our whole limit and our capacity in a given transactions as example and they are doing that.
So I think we are probably creating a little more not risk rating type of supply but just take a little bit more loans because we are twice the equity we used to be.
And therefore we can absorb it and the team does a great job in credit quality there.
So I’d say if you look at across the board consumer is more delivery capacity and commercial it’s more both delivery capacity and then as you cite take a little more risk in terms of dollar denomination but not in terms of [Indiscernible] credit quality.
Okay got it and then Paul one quick follow up on GWIM just remind us how that business kind of marks itself in terms of the asset level pricing versus the transactions.
It seems like there was kind of went in different directions this quarter and the result was kind of flattish on a revenue perspective.
So what do we need to think about in terms of where the markets have come and where we are looking ahead in terms of assets levels versus transaction type revenue activity? So we continue to grow AUM and that’s all good.
I mean we grew it a little bit slower this quarter but in a bad market environment we continue to grow AUM we continue to grow deposits we continue to grow loans.
So I think everyone is doing their job.
You are right that when market activity is lower we tend to see less activity in the transactional side of that business.
There is a lot of new issuance there mutual funds other products that just don't come to market.
And so that sort of exacerbates things when the markets are bad.
Does that answer your question? Good morning Nancy.
Good morning guys how are you? Two questions one there is an issue out there I think this was supposed to happen in 2018 on credit quality it is this current expected credit loss.
Can you just tell us where the argument is about that right now and whether you have been able to do any preliminary work about how that would impact you? I don’t think - the idea about like a loan type of reserving on the commercial - all loans is out there.
It’s -- the FASB is working on it I think there has been voluminous comments big questions about it.
But when it comes out it will be basically a one-time adjustment type of thing and then it will be over with and -- and so over a course of time it should come out the same because you think about it this as just putting it all - you put the loans on in the commercial side especially be changed.
So we’ll get to that when we get to that but it hasn’t been clarified what the rule is; lots of people commented on it and it would be a one-time thing and as you say somewhere out in 18 is what people currently think.
Okay secondly another credit quality question.
I mean there was a lot of speculation before the quarter that and I think this is probably based on the energy outlook that this would be the “inflection point quarter” and beginning to build reserves but what you are saying and what JP Morgan said yesterday was that the credit quality outlook remains pretty stable.
Can you just comment on this inflection point issue and when you think we will get there? We’re still seeing reserve releases on the consumer side of the bank that is certainly starting to moderate.
And consistent with loan growth we’re seeing some reserve additions on the commercial side of the bank.
And as I said earlier if you are looking for when those lines are going to cross we think provision as Brian and I both said is going to be roughly sort of 800 million to 900 million in 2016 that’s kind of where the conversion is going to happen some place - per quarter that is some place in 2016.
Nancy remember we still have massive risk coming off in consumer that we are not - reserves are going over the commercial side and some is coming out net of that 100 plus million this quarter.
We expect that to probably mitigate and then if you get loan reserve you’ll build reserves at some point but I think that is still a bit out there.
So sometime in 2016 probably? It depends on what the loan growth is it depends on the economic scenario.
But I think it’s -- we’re still repositioning reserves on the consumer side that are excess as we can see in the credit statistics.
We’re carrying a healthy reserve for areas that have continued to come down in terms of risk.
Okay thank you.
Good morning guys it’s actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
Most have been asked and answered but one quick question on the servicing side the servicing income has been coming down at sort of a faster rate than the portfolio and I know you guys have sort of exited most of the sales on the portfolio side so at what point can we sort of expect the fees to level off and is that just a function of the legacy stuff continuing to run off? If you go to page 17 you can see that the rate of reduction will come down -- will slow down but it will still come down on of the theory the units doing.
Remember the other issue we have is we’re holding more of the loans so that from a corporate perspective that also has an effect here comes in - in yield or not in servicing fees.
So expect the fee to work its way down but it is 345 this quarter I think 300-ish is where ought to flatten out.
Okay and then also on slide 17 if I may on the 60 days delinquent how much of that is the quarterly change how much of that is from sales there is that mostly just run off? Most of it is just run off.
We are just working it out and so we still got a room to go to get it normalized but there is nothing big material going on in terms of sales and stuff this quarter.
Okay that’s all thank you.
Hi I had three small questions; first you sold $3.6 billion of assets mortgages and NPLs what was the gain or sale on those sales I am sorry the gain or loss? In total our gain on all our loan sales in the quarter 400 million.
I am sorry 400 million.
400 million.
Okay that added a little bit should we assume that repeats or this is kind of a one off? Mike it’s in the puts and takes we put on the first slide there.
Okay that is fine.
Higher rates you are more asset sensitive now I guess 4.5 billion to 100 basis points you are 3.9 billion last quarter.
Are you intentionally -- I mean how do you think about that are you leaving money on the table by being so asset sensitive do you want to be this asset sensitive maybe give the answer in the context to the last jobs report which seems to imply rates will increase later than previously expected? We have not changed how we manage these rates in the company.
All that happened was long end rates went down from Q2 to Q3 increasing… The FAS91 is really the major difference.
And then lastly Paul you are new on the job as CFO actually Brian this is the first call when we can ask the question why did the old CFO leave and we have heard a lot of different reports to why the last CFO leave and Paul as you are new on the job as CFO what changes might you want to make and Paul or Brian if rates don’t go up for a lot longer than you expected what is your Plan B to deal with the tougher environment? So let me answer that and I am going to let Paul talk about three months ago; Bruce has served as Chief Risk Officer and CFO for a combined six years and wanted to get back and run a business or do something different.
And so we announced that and Paul became CFO.
There is nothing new to add.
In terms of what we do in the environment as we have said a lot of times to earlier questions we continue to be able to hold the core expenses flat while we make the investments pay - the increased CCAR expenses pay for the cost of repositioning the franchise severance and everything and we will continue to work at it.
If the environment changed and we didn’t think we’re getting returns from that [we’ll just go] [ph] for the long-term interest of our shareholders we would reduce the investment rate.
And Paul philosophy on being CFO any changes with your predecessor? I think it is a little early for me to have developed a plan in terms of radical change.
We have -- Bruce did a tremendous job of cleaning up the balance sheet and positioning our company for growth.
He -- we have got a great team that he built and I am getting to know all that and we will see how it goes.
Alright thank you.
Thanks for joining everybody.
We will talk to you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to today's Bank of America earnings announcement.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this call may be recorded.
I'll be standing by if you should need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Lee McEntire.
Good morning.
Thanks to everybody on the phone thanks for those that are joining us on the webcast as well.
Welcome to the fourth quarter earnings results presentation.
Hopefully everyone has had a chance to review the earnings that we released.
It is available on the Bank of America Investor Relations website.
And so before I turn over the call over to Brian and Paul let me remind you we may make some forward-looking statements.
For further information of those please refer to either our earnings release documents on our website or our SEC filings.
So with that I will turn it over to our CEO Brian Moynihan.
Thank you Lee and good morning.
Thanks to all of you for joining us this morning to discuss our fourth quarter results.
Before Paul Donofrio takes you through the details of the quarter I just want to provide some overall context on our progress in 2015 and the opportunities and challenges ahead.
As you know for the fourth quarter we reported $3.3 billion in earnings or $0.28 per diluted share.
For 2015 we had net income of $15.9 billion that's the highest net income we've had in a long time.
Full year return metrics were 74 basis points for ROA and 9% for return on tangible common equity.
During 2015 we continued to drive our 8 lines of business forward.
We've focused on driving responsible growth across all our businesses and as you look at the annual earnings of the company and see how they fell you can see how they came through.
Our consumer and wealth management businesses serving mass market customers all the way to the wealthiest Americans delivered $9.3 billion in net income this year.
Our Global Banking business which provides services to small medium and large companies around the world produced $5.3 billion in net income this year.
Within our institutional investor clients our markets business with its market leading research capabilities and the top tier platform across the globe delivered $3 billion in earnings after adjusting for DVA in a very challenging market.
What's clear in these earnings despite the gyrations of markets especially at the end of the year last year is annuity nature that we get from our franchise by driving customer and client flows.
That's the power of our company it’s balancing the scope and a strong customer base and we aim to continue to improve it every day for our clients and customers and our shareholders.
These results reflect the work we've done over the past several years to develop a more straightforward and simplified operating model and focus on responsible growth.
As you see on slide 2 across the variety of measures loan growth business activity capital liquidity credit losses and cost management we've made meaningful progress and believe we are positioned for a variety of economic cycles.
At the foundation of all this is a strong capital and liquidity base.
We added to our record liquidity levels in 2015 and we believe we are well positioned against the 2017 LCR requirements with total global excess liquidity sources now at over $500 billion.
This amount represents nearly a quarter of our balance sheet and we now have enough [indiscernible] liquidity to last more than three years before we need to tap the market for funding.
Now our liquidity levels were driven by strong growth in deposits this year and we were able to put that funding to work to grow loans on an absolute basis for the first time in several years.
Loan growth was all driven by organic activity and is consistent with our risk posture.
Our tangible common equity of $162 billion is at record levels as well.
We returned $4.5 billion to shareholders this year in common dividends and share repurchases.
Our tangible book value per share improved 8% in the past 12 months to a new high of $15.62.
Our responsible lending focus also shows in our underwriting results.
Our net charge-offs were down just $4.3 billion this year consistent with 2014 but much lower than previous years.
Commercial charge-offs increased off a very low base mostly from oil related charge-offs while consumer losses as a core continued to improve.
This reflects further responsible underwriting as continued improvement in our legacy portfolios.
And finally we get to the cost management side.
At the heart of our work has been improving expenses which you can see are down sequentially from last year mostly on lower litigation costs but also on improved LAS and other operating costs and these have improved steadily across the last several years.
We began new a BAC in 2011 and completed it in 2014.
Since then we have been using our Simplify and Improve initiatives to find savings that more than offset increased compliance merit and other inflationary costs.
But most importantly those savings fund investments in our business whether it is in technology or sales force growth or other infrastructure costs.
As we move to slide 3 we included a few examples of trends business activity in our consumer side of the house and wealth management side of the house.
As you can see we grew average deposits in consumer banking and wealth management business is $52 billion or 7% comparing year-over-year fourth quarter periods.
These deposits were up over $105 billion in core deposits at the end of 2012.
This strong organic growth is the result of hard work in improving the customer satisfaction in our franchise by making it easier for customers to do business with [indiscernible] and strong product management simplifying the product set.
All this has been done where we've optimized our delivery networks reducing our financial standards divesting certain markets and also expanding our award winning mobile capabilities in the customer base that uses that.
As you can see this work also extends to our wealth management business.
We had long-term net flows every quarter for six and a half years in wealth management.
We have record loan levels and significant higher deposit levels good products and [advisers] [ph] a growing sales force and two of the leading brands in business positions us well here..
Let me move to our global banking markets area.
You can see on the institutional side of the [house] [ph] that’s set out forth on slide 4 we saw solid activity in 2015.
Loans to commercial and corporate clients around the globe are growing nicely.
Client demand has been good and our bankers have met our challenge to capture market share responsibly.
This focus allows us to demonstrate a strong 12% growth in loans through global banking in the past 12 months and you can see the deposit growth has been strong here in the last year as well.
If you look at the markets business Tom Montag and team have done a good job of reducing assets and lowered the risk and still are generating relatively stable revenues.
Despite the recent market challenges we remained quite profitable in this business and well positioned around the globe with both a strong [FICC] [ph] and equity platform.
As we step back we remain focused on our core customer strategy.
We will continue to invest in the future and even as we continue to address the legacy issues of the past.
We've been able to grow even as operating and economic environment remains in a low growth mode.
Our model is solid but there is still plenty of work to do but also there is plenty of opportunity ahead for us.
Overall I am pleased with the progress made in 2015 and we have more to do in 2016.
In 2016 you should expect us to continue to focus on responsible growth.
We will continue to drive the investments made in our franchise to deliver the value to you the shareholders.
We will continue our sharp focus on risk management and we will continue our cost discipline as we look to continue to improve return on capital – capital metrics of our company.
With that let me hand it over to Paul.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Starting on slide 5 we present a summary of the income statement and returns for this quarter as well as the fourth quarter of last year which had similar seasonal aspects.
We earned $3.3 billion in the quarter compared to earnings of $3.1 billion in 4Q 2014.
Earnings per diluted share this quarter were $0.28 up 12% versus a year ago.
The results include two significant charges that were previously announced and impacted EPS by $0.06.
First we recorded a pretax charge of $612 million associated with trust preferred securities which phased out of tier two capital at the end of 2015.
Second we had a tax charge of $290 million associated with the UK tax changes that were enacted during the quarter.
Lastly we had a few other items that benefited the EPS this quarter by a penny on a net basis.
These included a negative net DVA impact in sales and trading that was more than offset by positive impacts of market related adjustments in net interest income and some one-off tax benefits.
Revenue on an FTE basis was $19.8 billion this quarter up 4% from Q4 2014.
Expenses were $13.9 billion approximately $300 million or 2% lower than a year ago driven by good expense discipline across the company.
We also provide returns and a few other metrics on this page I would remind you that client activity and revenue in our global market segment tend to be lower or lowest in the fourth quarter affecting returns on other statistics.
Lastly as many of you are aware there was a recent accounting change that required certain unrealized debit valuation adjustments to be recorded directly to OCI rather than through the P&amp;L.
We early adopted this change effective as of the beginning of 2015.
The slide and the supplemental earnings material that was in 2015 results have been adjusted.
Turning to slide 6 and focusing on the balance sheet we grew deposits by $35 billion from Q3 and we used these increased deposits to fund responsible loan growth.
In total assets climbed $9 million as increases in loans and security balances of $30 billion were more than offset by reductions in trading related assets and cash.
Liquidity rose to just over $500 billion a record level and time to required funding remains over three years.
Tangible common equity of $152 billion improved modestly in Q3 as earnings were offset by both the return of $1.3 billion in capital to common shareholders and negative OCI driven by security values.
Tangible book value per share increased to $15.62 another new record high.
Turning to regulatory metrics we began recording regulatory capital under the advanced approaches for the first time this quarter and the CET1 transition ratio under Basel 3 ended the quarter at 10.2 and really has no comparable metrics as transition ratios in prior periods were reported under the standardized approach with lower RWA levels.
On a fully phased-in basis CET1 capital improved modestly to $154.1 billion under the advanced approaches compared to Q3 2015 pro forma estimates the CET1 ratio increased slightly to 9.8%.
RWA was essentially flat as growth from commercial exposures was mostly offset by lower activity and balance sheet levels in our global markets segment.
We also provide our capital metrics under the standardized approach.
Here our CET1 ratio was flat at 10.8% with modest improvements in capital offset by modest increase in RWA.
In terms of the supplementary leverage ratios we estimate that as of 12/31 we continue to exceed U.S.
rules applicable beginning in 2018 at both the parent and bank.
Turning to slide 7 we had strong loan and deposit growth this quarter.
Reported loans on an end of period basis increased $15 billion from Q3.
This is the third consecutive quarter of recorded increases in total loan balances.
We continue to see solid loan demand in our primary lending businesses partially offset by runoff in LAS and all other.
Excluding declines in LAS and all other ending loans in our primary lending segments increased $22 billion from Q3.
$8 billion of this increase was in consumer loans as GWIM increased mortgages and security based lending.
Consumer banking also saw good loan growth in mortgages as well as vehicle loans.
We also had some seasonal growth in credit card partially offset by selling $1.7 billion of card receivables at the end of the quarter.
Commercial loans grew $15 billion spread across multiple industry groups.
Turning to deposits on many basis they reached nearly $1.2 trillion this quarter growing $78 billion or 7% in Q4 2014.
Growth was solid across the franchise.
Consumer led the way growing 9% year-over-year while global banking and GWIM each grew at 6% pace.
Turning to asset quality on slide 8 while still strong we did see net charge-offs increase modestly from recent levels.
Total net charge-offs increased $212 million versus Q3 $144 million was from consumer items previously reserved for and lower recoveries on the sale of NPL in the fourth quarter versus Q3.
We also saw a $73 million increase in net charge-offs from our energy portfolio.
Outside of these two areas net charge-offs were stable compared to Q3.
Provision of $110 million in Q4 was relatively flat with Q3.
Reserve releases in consumer real estate and credit card were partially offset by reserve builds in commercial which was driven by increase in criticized exposures as well as loan growth.
Reserve releases excluding the previously reserved items I mentioned earlier were roughly $200 million.
On slide 9 we provide credit quality data on our consumer portfolio.
Net charge-offs increased $137 million.
The two items of note that make up this increase were reserved for in prior periods and did not impact the provision expense in the quarter.
$119 million was the result of collateral valuation adjustments.
In addition we had some small charge-offs associated with our 2014 DOJ settlement.
We expect to complete our commitments under this settlement in the first half of 2016.
Adjusting for these two items consumer net charge-offs were relatively flat versus Q3.
Delinquency levels and NPLs continue to decline and reserve coverage remained strong.
Moving to our commercial side on slide 10 net charge-offs increased $75 million primarily from losses in our energy portfolio.
Outside of the energy portfolio commercial losses remained very low.
Given the focus on the impacts of low oil prices on companies in the energy sector we want to spend a minute to describe our energy portfolio and provide some perspectives.
The pie chart break down our $21 billion utilized exposure to the energy sector.
This represents a little more than 2% of our total loan balances.
Within that $21 billion $8.3 billion or less than 1% of the total loans is loans to borrowers in two subsectors Exploration and Production as well as Oil Field Services.
We consider these two subsectors to have significantly higher risk than the rest of the energy portfolio.
Of our $8.3 billion utilized exposure to these two higher risk subsectors $2.9 billion has already been downgraded to criticized.
So 35% of the higher risk subsectors has already been downgraded to reservable criticized exposure thereby driving a portion of the reserves.
And allowances for loan losses for the entire energy portfolio is approximately $500 million or 6% of the funded exposure of these two subsectors.
The company in the vertically integrated subsector represents $5.8 billion of the energy portfolio.
We believe this subsector has a better ability to withstand lower oil prices.
Nearly 100% of the companies have a market capital of $10 billion or more or they are sovereign owned and the average company has a market cap greater than $60 billion.
We believe the remaining exposure in Refining and Marketing as well as other is also less dependent on oil prices.
As part of our standard risk management process we stress test our credit portfolios including our energy portfolio.
Our stress analysis of the energy portfolio includes various sustained low oil prices over extended periods.
As an example if we held oil prices at $30 per barrel for nine quarters we estimate our potential losses on the energy portfolio would be roughly $700 million.
In energy and across our commercial sector we continue to support clients while managing lending limits and actively engaging with stressed borrowers.
Before moving from asset quality I want to refocus on total provision expense and how one should think about it over the next couple of quarters.
As we continue to assess and react to future changes in the energy sector we could see lumpiness that could potentially drive provision expense over $900 million.
Turning to net interest income on slide 11 on an FTE basis NII was $10 billion increasing roughly $300 million from Q3.
NII included a negative $612 million charge associated with three trust preferred securities.
These securities were scheduled to be completely phased out of tier 2 capital as of January 01 and with 7% to 8% coupons became expensive debt.
NII also included a $150 million of positive market related adjustments to the amortization of bond premiums under FAS 91.
NII excluding market related adjustments and the charge on the trust preferred improved $188 million from Q3 to $10.5 billion.
This improvement was driven by increased deposit balances which we used to fund growth in loans and securities.
As we move into the first quarter please note the following: first we will have one less day of interest.
Second recent changes by Congress will lower the amount of dividends we receive from the FRB by approximately $50 million a quarter.
Having said that if the forward curve is realized and if we have some modest deposit and loan growth we still expect to show some growth in NII in Q1 2016 relative to our adjusted NII of $10.5 billion.
With regards to asset sensitivity at the end of the fourth quarter our overall asset sensitivity decreased slightly as a result of increases in long-end rates as well as security balances.
As of 12/31 an instantaneous 100 basis points parallel increase in rates is estimated to increase NII by approximately $4.3 billion over the subsequent year.
Although more than half of that improvement comes from the increases in short-end rates and a little less than one quarter of the benefit comes from market related adjustments.
Turning to expenses on slide 12 non-interest expense was $13.9 billion in Q4 $300 million lower than Q4 2014.
This was driven by good expense discipline across the company.
Litigation expense was a little higher this quarter at $428 million exhibiting some lumpiness as we work to resolve legacy issues.
Keep in mind that annual litigation expense decreased from $16.4 billion in 2014 to $1.2 billion in 2015.
Legacy asset servicing cost excluding litigation finished Q4 a little better than our targets of $800 million.
As we have said our net goal is $500 million per quarter.
Expenses excluding litigation and LAS were $12.6 billion and represents the fifth quarter out of the past six below $12.8 billion.
We continue to look for ways to streamline and simplify how we do business.
This is important because it allows us to invest in growth while maintaining relatively flat core expenses and a sluggish revenue environment.
And importantly this relevant flatness continued even as we invested in additional sales professionals and improved technologies.
Looking towards expenses in 2016 let me remind you in the first quarter we will record as normal approximately $1 billion in cost for retirement eligible incentives.
In addition the first quarter strictly includes seasonably higher payroll taxes of roughly $300 million.
And if we experience traditional rebound in Q1 sales and trading revenue this would also increase incentives and other associated costs.
Turning to the business segments and starting with consumer banking on slide 13 consumer earned $1.8 billion 9% greater than Q4 last year.
These results reflect good operating leverage on increased customer activities.
The segment generated a strong 25% return on allocated capital.
Revenue of $7.8 billion was up modestly from Q4 2014.
Net interest income benefited from higher deposit and loan levels.
Noninterest income was down slightly from lower mortgage banking.
The decline in mortgage revenue reflects selling fewer nonperforming loans as we hold more on our balance sheet.
In addition there was absence of $30 million in quarterly from the Q3 sale of the small noncore appraisal business.
Expenses declined 2% from Q4 2014 as the savings from reduction in financial centers and personnel more than offset higher product costs and investment in increased sales specialists.
The cost of operating deposit franchise remains low at 177 basis points.
Operating leverage drove improvements in the efficiency ratio of 56% as we continue to experience shifts in customer activity away from branches towards self-serve options.
Mobile banking users increased to 18.7 million which is up 13% from Q4 2014 and deposit transactions from these devices now represent 15% of deposit transactions.
Slide 14 presents consumer progress across a number of customer activities.
I will highlight activities in three areas loans deposits and brokerage assets where we continue to grow responsibly.
These three products are at the core of our rewards programs where we share benefits with customers who deepen relationships with us.
Average loans grew $12 billion from Q4 2014 in mortgages and vehicle lending.
And in deposit growth was strong at $48 billion or 9% from Q4 while the rate paid declined to 4 basis points.
Regarding brokerage assets Merrill Edge assets levels of $123 billion are up 8% from last year even with declines in equity markets this year.
Total mortgage production was up 13% from Q4 last year and stable with Q3.
Looking at card activity which includes GWIM card issuance was strong at $1.3 million.
Average U.S.
card balances of $89 billion were down modestly from last year but up seasonally from Q3 2015.
U.S.
card credit quality was strong as net charge-offs remained at decades low levels of 2.5% with risk adjusted margin of 9.4%.
Credit spending volumes finished on a high note as Q4 spending was 5% higher than last year outpacing what we believe to be total market spend levels.
Debit spending was strong as well.
For example on Christmas Eve day we saw record debit credit spending of more than $1 billion.
In our consumer segment we expect technology adoption by customers to continue to be a cornerstone of not only improved customer satisfaction but also efficiency gains and operating leverage.
The latest examples of this are around digital selling and appointment setting.
Digital sales in the fourth quarter were up more than 31% from last year.
Digital appointments reached more than 16 000 recently.
We expect these adoption trends to play an increasing role in future performance in customer satisfaction as we continue to advance online and mobile capabilities.
Turning to slide 15 global wealth and investment management produced earnings of $614 million.
Results were down from Q4 last year driven by lower transactional revenue and the impact of the market decline on asset management fees.
Transactional revenue continues to be impacted by the shifting of activity from brokerage to managed relationships as well as market uncertainty.
NII benefited from solid loan growth and solid deposit growth but was offset by the company’s ALM activities leaving NII relatively flat with Q4 2014.
Non-interest expense was modestly higher than the year ago period.
Investment in client facing professionals continues while lower revenue caused a decline in incentive compensations that was more than offset by amortization of stock awards issued in prior periods.
Pretax margin was 21% down from Q4 2014.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2016 we will benefit from lower expense resulting from the completion of amortizations related to advisor retention awards given at the time of the Merrill Lynch merger.
Moving to slide 16 despite the volatility and market levels we continued to see solid client activity and we continued to invest in the business growing wealth advisors 5% from Q4 last year.
Long-term AUM flows were $7 billion and remained positive for the 26th consecutive quarter.
Deposit flows were strong growing end of period balances $15 billion from Q3.
By the way this may have been driven in part by client concerns of market volatility.
Loans continued to grow improving 10% from last year.
This is the 23rd consecutive quarter of average loan growth in this segment.
Turning to slide 17 global banking earned $1.4 billion down 9% from Q4 2014 but still generating a 16% return on allocated capital.
The earnings decline from Q4 was driven by higher provision expense.
Provision expense was up $264 million from Q4 last year driven by higher energy related charge-offs and reserve build to loan growth and energy related risks.
Revenue increased modestly from Q4 2014 while expense declined modestly.
Driven by higher loan balances NII improved despite spread compression and the allocation of the company’s ALM activities including higher liquidity costs.
Non-interest income benefited from higher treasury services revenue higher leasing revenue and a small gain from the sale of its foreclosed property partially offset by lower IB fees.
Looking at trends on slide 18 and comparing to Q4 2014 IB fees of $1.3 billion were down 17% as leverage finance and equity issuance was partially offset by advisory fees that were at second highest level since the Merrill merger.
From a market share perspective we maintained our number three global fee ranking.
Looking at the balance sheet loans on average were $320 billion up 12% year-over-year.
The growth was broad based across C&amp;I real estate and leasing.
We continued to experience some spread compression although it has moderated relative to a year ago.
Asset quality of new loans was consistent with the overall portfolio.
On deposits we saw good performance with average deposits increasing by $16 billion or 5% over Q4 2014.
The mix of these deposits remained very good with less than 5% classified as 100% runoff of balances.
Switching to global markets on slide 19 and comparing to Q4 last year we are pleased with the results here given challenging market conditions as the teams increased revenue while using lower asset levels and less VAR.
Global markets earned approximately $200 million but we think one should consider results excluding DVA.
On that basis adjusted earnings were $308 million which was relatively flat to Q4 2014 on a similarly adjusted basis.
Note that our net DVA loss this quarter was $198 million and compared to a loss of $626 million in Q4 2014 which included an initial FVA adjustment.
Total revenue excluding DVA improved $330 million or 10% from the fourth quarter last year on improved FICC sales and trading.
Outside of sales and trading global market's share of lower investment banking fees was offset by a gain on the sale of an equity investment.
Non-interest expenses increased 9% in line with revenue improvement.
Moving to trends on the next slide and focusing on the components of our sales and trading performance sales and trading revenue are up $2.6 billion excluding net DVA was up 11.5% in Q4 of 2014.
Compared to Q4 last year FICC sales and trading of $1.8 billion improved 20% reflecting improvements across most products notably in rates and credit related products.
Equity trading of $822 million declined 3% reflecting lower client activity.
Average trading related asset levels were down 9% in Q4 2014 while VAR was down 14%.
Turning to legacy assets and servicing on slide 21 this segment lost roughly $350 million in line with the prior year.
Focused areas here are mortgage banking income the number of delinquent loans and expenses all compared to Q4 2014.
First mortgage banking income which improved slightly was driven by three factors revenue warranty provisioning improved $237 million to provision of $9 million this quarter.
That favorability was offset by a decline in servicing fees of $108 million as the units service declined as well as a decline in net MSR hedge performance of $152 million.
Next the number of first mortgage loans that we serviced that are 60 day delinquent continued to decline and are now at 103 000 units.
And last the team did an excellent job lowering expenses.
Excluding litigation we achieved our goal of $800 million moving costs down $309 million or 28%.
On slide 22 we show all other which reported a loss of $289 million.
This was an improvement of $86 million from Q4 2014.
This loss was driven by $612 million pretax charge associated with our trust preferred as well as the impact on the UK tax law changes.
This was partially offset by gains on debt security sales as well as reserved leases on consumer real estate loans booked in all other.
[Audit Start]A comment or two on taxes before wrapping up.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the quarter excluding the UK tax charge was 25% reflecting reoccurring tax benefits plus a few small one-off benefits.
We would expect the tax rate to be in the low 30s for 2016 excluding unusual items.
Before closing I want to cover our early adoption of DVA accounting in more detail.
In January of this year the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an update to allow early adoption of a new rule regarding recognition of DVA on financial liabilities from changes in our own credit spreads.
The update means that these types of debit valuation adjustments will now flow through OCI instead of the income statement.
We believe this change makes our earnings comparison more meaningful and easier to understand therefore we adopted early.
We restated all periods this year per FASB rules and those numbers are contained in the supplemental package.
This had no impact on capital as it moved on between retained earnings in the OCI but it did impact revenue earnings taxes and EPS in the first three quarters of 2015.
The changes reduced previously reported EPS by approximately $0.02 each in Q1 Q2 and Q3.
This accounting standard adoption did not impact DVA on derivatives which continued to flow through trading account profits.
Okay let me conclude by offering a few takeaways.
Although the U.S.
economy is improving slowly revenue growth remains challenging.
This quarter we continued our progress on those things we can control and drive.
These include delivering for clients and customers within our risk framework and driving client and customer activity that will result in sustainable profits and returns.
Our results reflect this focus.
We maintained a strong foundation of capital and liquidity.
We grew loans deposits and investment flows.
We continue to invest in our franchise by adding sales professionals and improved technology.
Our strength global capability and experience allowed us to deliver for clients in a challenging market environment and we did all of this while closely managing expenses.
With that we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Can you talk about the outlook for the core cost beyond some of the lumpy items in 1Q and then specifically maybe comment on how you feel like your markets business is sized? We have obviously seen some cost savings announcements that your U.S.
and non-U.S.
peers and want to get sense of how you feel you’re positioned for the markets? This quarter the fourth quarter I think represents as I said in the comments the fifth out of six that we have been below $12.8 billion.
As you know I think we’ve been talking about maintaining core expenses below $13 million.
So we feel really good about our progress.
And to remind everybody that we are maintaining those core expenses at those levels while we’re investing in front office professionals while we’re investing in technology while we’re absorbing the natural increase in pay for employees and fraud cost and CCAR costs and other things.
So I think we feel good about the work we’re doing there.
In terms of global markets what was the question? Just in terms of the staffing and the positioning there how you feel for I don’t know about the current environment but just not bouncing back in a big big way and obviously we’re seeing reductions being announced at some of your U.S.
and non U.S.
peers.
So how are you thinking about the sizing of your business for the environment you expect? Matt in the fourth quarter we did reduce headcount in the business the markets businesses and the related capital markets business we didn’t make big announcements but that led to the $130 million in severance in the fourth quarter numbers you see.
So it will continue to adjust that headcount.
Tom and his team will continue to adjust as they made an adjustment headcount for the quarter just did not make quite the press other people’s did.
The other thing I will add Matt is my focus is on core expenses.
We’re still – we’re going to see core expenses I think continue to come down as we work on LAS and continue to hopefully see some moderation in legal expenses.
And just on the timing of the LAS getting to that below $500 million you did disclose a big drop in the headcount if we look year-over-year and obviously there is a delay in terms of the cost in sales coming down but what’s the timing of getting to that $500 million or below? Okay.
I think we've made great progress in terms of getting expenses down I think we started at what $3.1 billion quarters ago but we've made great progress getting down to $800 million.
We are – our next milestone is $500 million per quarter.
That’s going to be a little bit harder as you get lower and lower it will be more unpredictable and so we’re not really giving up a target at this time but we’re going to get there as soon as we can.
Thank you.
You should expect us to make good progress Matt towards this year and so as you look towards the end of the year we should be getting there.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Betsy.
I just wanted to dig in on a couple of things one was on energy since it’s flavor of the day you gave a lot of color there and you indicated that those $30 holds for nine quarters that is a loss of $700 million.
I just wanted to understand is that already reserved for or is that over and above – case if we go below $30 what you've got baked in? Because I don’t it’s linear I was just wanting to understand how you are thinking about it? Sure look as we said in comments we have got reserves against that energy portfolio of $500 million that is 6% of the high risk subsectors and we developed reserves on incurred basis we developed them by looking at loss give default probability of default exposure to default.
We go loan by loan we have lot of imprecision other factors if you look at imprecision we put judgement on all of that.
One of the things we look at when we come up with our judgment of what we should be is our stress testing and so that’s how that gets factored in to our reserve which again has to be on an incurred basis.
Right so when you indicated that if $30 holds for nine quarters your models suggests a loss of $700 million that’s already reserved for or is that on top of what you already have reserved? In part that because the idea is it can only incur what you see through today in terms of the operating structure these companies and asset based on lending these are asset based loans these are based loans.
[Audio Gap] if you are nine quarters from now and oil is still at that price you’d have to have a reserve for what’s left of the portfolio of the exposures been coming down it will come down during those nine quarters by losses you took at least in resolving this credit.
So it's in part covered but not fully because that’s an estimate of our future that we as Paul said it’s an incurred view of the portfolio.
… we got $500 million reserve as we go theoretically goes to the nine quarters if that $700 million would come true of our model is perfect it would go against that $500 million to be building reserves as you went through that process.
So if you told me what you want at the end of nine quarters that if you want to end at $500 million you can do the math if you want it to end up that more or less it's going to be more or less in terms of you kind of built.
And then could you talk a little bit about the reserve release that’s still possible from the other portfolios you have $200 million reserve release this past quarter just wondering what the lags are on that we've seen other institutions they essentially finish up the reserve release? I know you had a big legacy book so maybe there is a little more lags there I just wanted to understand how you’re thinking about the trajectory there? I think you got it I think we have a legacy we have a large legacy portfolio on the consumer side as we continued to work through that.
And if home prices continue to stay where they are and improve the economy stays we’re already improved.
I think you are going to continue to see reserve from us in 2016 our reserve releases as I should say from us in 2016 but they are going to moderate from what they have been in the past.
Okay so there is still some lags but at decelerating pace ? Yes that some of that swings over to the commercial book yes as we saw this quarter Betsy.
So we have come down from a lot of reserve releases last year $800 million or so in the fourth quarter last year $7 million or $8 million or so in the fourth quarter last year certainly is heardings down to the two couple hundred million is expect that to kind of mitigate during the course of 2016.
Yes and we've built reserves in the commercial.
All right.
Thanks.
We’ll move next to John McDonald of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Paul I was recalling I think you had for a goal as you had to generate positive operating leverage.
I was wondering how you feel about the ability to achieve that what kind of revenue environment are you planning for and how will you managed expenses try to get some positive operating leverage this year? I think we feel good about the operating leverage we achieved in 2015.
You can see that with the revenue growth relative to the EPS growth and I think we are looking to continue that trend.
We have a little bit of a tailwind here on rates we're going to continue to manage expenses carefully.
So in terms of our EPS in 2016 we don’t give estimates but in terms of EPS growth in 2016 I think it will be more of the same revenue growth with some hopefully expense discipline that will get us a some operating leverage.
Okay and Brian could you talk a little bit about what your goals will be with your 2016 CCAR submission are you looking to make some progress on both the dividend and buyback potentially and do you may be can share some thoughts about that? John we have not seen a scenario as yet and stuff like that so I think it is probably premature to discuss that.
Our goal is long term is to return more and more capital to shareholders through dividend and stock buybacks at this price obviously stock buybacks are favored but when we see the scenario and play that out it would be getting ahead of the process and talk about today.
Okay and Paul one quick follow up on the NII is there a benefit from the paid down of trust preferred that you will get in 2016 is that why you’re able to grow the core and NII bit in 2016? I won't say don’t say that’s why but honestly there is a benefit from paying off those trust preferred they had I think with the $175 million in quarter and so there is a benefit there.
But the way I would think about those is we’re not going to “replace them” because they don’t count toward our regulatory capital so why would we replace them? We're going to have a capital structure that meets our regulatory requirements which requires a certain amount CET1.
We are going to have the appropriate amount off preferred and something that’s and - of course we have to meet – so that’s how I would think about it.
Okay and so it's really just the loan growth and pretty stable rates driving some core NII growth? John if you look at it – what was affecting us '13 '14 was we've continued to run our portfolios that yield to them.
And obviously the reinvestment rates on the investment side of the house as we ran those off were flattish.
That is kind of all run through the system so now what we’re seeing is $80 billion of a period deposit growth from fourth quarter last year and this year and the overall pay rate for that is in the low single digit basis points all for all the consumer wealth management and driven by middle market and the banking business.
So that is the deposit funding side.
And the asset build is now good core loans that have reasonable yields to them and you start to see it and then pick up just a hair from that.
And we expect it to drive in our core as long as the economy continues to grow a couple of percent.
Okay thank you.
Hey John just real quick I want to correct one thing I said the 175 is full year.
Okay.
We’ll move next to Paul Miller of FBR and Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you very much on your NPAs you have really good disclosure you are getting it down to 103 000 did you sell any this quarter or is that all workouts through your servicing? We thought a little bit but not as much as we had in the past that not as much as we had in the past.
It is very incremental at this point on the sales side.
And then when do you I mean like at this point when do you think you can get that down to I guess this is not a normal level because you've just got to run this whole portfolio off.
I mean could you have any idea when that will be over with? Well Paul definitely three is the total portfolio.
So there is a normal piece in that and an abnormal piece of that that we should be driving it down to the 60 days 103 across both portfolios that number should come into I don’t know pick up a percent or percent and a half of the service loan unit.
So it still got some room to go and that's the key that I think Matt has pointed out earlier is the FTE headcount in LAS we had a 2000 person headcount drop in the company overall in the fourth quarter about half LAS have the rest of the company.
The LAS percentage rate is with 8 percentage points not annualized for the quarter at 30% is still dropping its headcount but is getting flatter now we get all the old cost drive out of the portfolio.
So in terms of thinking about real estate old systems and stuff and so that’s what takes a little more time now than just the people cost.
Thanks you very much.
We’ll move next to Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning may be just a quick question on deposit behavior since the rate high have you seen anything unusual I would assume will be more in the institutional side where you’ve seen movement at this point and then maybe you can kindly give some update on how you’re thinking about the deposit data this year? Sure the short answer is that we have seen no real movement of course we’re very focused on making sure that we paid appropriate deposit rate but so far there has been no movement and we have been modeling deposit betas on our interest building deposits in the high 40s.
And you still think that makes sense or do you think that’s relatively conservative? We think that makes sense and given the quality of our deposit base as Brian sort of kind of walked through already the portion we have in our consumer and GWIM franchises the number of primary checking accounts even on the wholesale side if you look at our deposits less than 5% of them are 100% runoff deposits.
So we feel good about our $1.2 trillion deposits we took even this year the deposit rating came down another basis point to 4 basis points for the all deposit so we feel good about that modeling.
And Jim remember that modeling is not 40% of everything.
It is a lot nothing and a lot less for the first couple of months.
So I think that’s what you’re thinking about so if we continue along with one or two rate raises there will be a lot more captured than as it gets on to the higher.
Right it will be more backend weighted? Exactly if that’s what you’re asking.
Okay.
And just one last question maybe on the expense side if we look at I mean you guys have done a good job but if you look at your core expenses normalized for all the puts and takes it still seems like your efficiency ratio would be sort of in that 63% 64% range and lot of your peers are well below 60%.
Is this sort of you grow into the improving efficiency ratio with the revenue as you reinvest or is there do you think you can get there more quickly? Just trying to get a sense of how you get the trajectory into more in line with the peer group on the efficiency ratio side? Well if you look at the full-year 2015 and you do those puts and takes for the things that we’ve talked about for the year and you make any sort of a reasonable guess as the progress we’re going to make around LAS we’re sort of in the kind of 65ish range we’re going to continue to focus on growing responsibly and working on our total expenses as we have talked earlier and so with a little help from growth and some more work on expenses we think we’re in shooting range.
As we model ourselves and look at sort of the peers and so that average efficiency by business units and model against our business mix we’re going to be little higher high level wealth management in our business relative to total.
But look three things on this number one we will continue to drive – drive it down and funding all the growth in FTE for sales side we get 6% growth in consumer FTE sales side 3% wealth management 6% or 8% maybe 8% global banking year-over-year.
So we’re paying for all that – paying for all the incentives attached we are paying for all the infrastructure attached to it.
So we're going to continue to drive it down.
So just rest assured that is.
And then we are not satisfied in the mid-60s efficiency ratio of the company and we should be able to drive that down and it will come from both its hard work as we say with the rate lift and stuff which affects -- we're still affected a little bit more by the low rates structure and other people we should pick it back up.
But don’t think we are complacent on this.
Okay.
I appreciate it thanks.
We’ll move next to Glenn Schorr of Evercore.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
So I think you put the heat on a little bit on loan growth over the last couple of quarters and if you looked at lending in your primary lending segments it’s picked up and I think that’s good.
The question I have is with new information that we have I mean the markets digesting and anticipating I don’t know if I'll call it recession but a lot of fear around recession on lower oil and China related fears.
The question I have is if you look at the core loan growth are you still okay running it at this level do you feel like your customer base that you’re making these new loans too are a little more insulated to the world that the market is fearful of? We are - outside of energy we are not seeing asset quality change nor are we see a reduction in appetite for our credit.
I would remind everybody that we look we’re very very focused on our customer framework and our risk framework but within that framework we continue to see a lot of opportunities that help our customers grow their businesses.
If you look at this quarter and you just focus on the core we had 3% quarter-over-quarter growth or an annualized growth rate of little over 12% or $22 billion I’m not going to sit here and tell you that is what is going to be next quarter but we’re not seeing material decline in conversations with our clients about how that thing grows.
I think to give additional color if you think about it if you go back a couple of years we grew the international business because we had to round out that franchise.
We sort of slowed that down 24 months ago that started to drop in terms of growth rate and so because of the client selection criteria there is very high levels - very high clients multinational clients et cetera but we slowed it down just to keep the company in balance and that’s been on watch.
If you think about the consumer you know there was a prime no longer FICO scores if you look at the coming on FICOs are higher than the portfolio still which is almost hard to believe the charge-offs delinquencies and both home equities delinquencies across the wide score are going to continue to come get lower every year.
This year was the lowest they have been probably a long time in both the credit card and in home equities.
And if you look at the client selection U.S.
a couple things one is you’re adding officers in the middle market business but they are going after our target clients and this is not go find the industries etcetera.
So whether it is the way you land a commercial real estate which is down – which is very high end real estate developer etcetera the way we land in this middle market is very strong.
So if you look across it is client section in the middle market business has been strong.
The best that we're seeing is things in our business banking small business portfolio are actually starting to see growth there sticking to our credit risk which is the first time in many years we had to run off some stuff it came in through style Merrill and everything else that we are finally seeing nominal growth.
And so I think it is client selection we slowed down international.
It sort of follows watching and in fact using your stress to make sure you stay balanced and if you look at us yes we feel we're pretty balanced between the consumer and commercial sort of 50-50 and there within the consumer we’re really sticking to our knitting which is very strong high quality above that credit worthy borrowers.
Great one follow up on the FA growth you noted a 5% year-on-year I’m just curious that is not a heck of a lot of core growth in that business.
I’m just curious how much is coming from your training programs versus recruiting both traditional and non-traditional sources? It is coming from both.
The reality is that the number one issue they are facing in the wealth and investment brokerage services revenue line is the decline in transactional revenue and it has gone from two years ago probably $600 million a quarter -- even in not robust market times down to $300 million $400 million in a quarter in net debt and that is part of the pay down for the annuity streams even though they are having record net flows it is just the pay the revenue rate on that is less and so that's the factor.
So it is not to do with really recruiting and the production per FA continues to be solid at 1 million plus.
It is really that core fundamental issue that they’re facing and that transition is overall gone through.
It is getting to the point where it is becoming less material and i.e.
material to the total revenue line from the transaction side.
I would just remind everybody that we've got significant positive loan base in that business and so again if rates rise we are going to see some benefit there.
All right thank you very much.
We’ll move next to Steven Chubak of Nomura.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Steven.
So I actually had a quick followup to the topic that Glen was just addressing relating to GWIM and just some of the margin pressures that we have been seeing over the last couple of quarters.
I wanted to get a better sense as to how much of that do you think is cyclical versus secular whether it be DOL related pressures or just intensifying competition for advisors and along those same lines whether a 30% margin target is still achievable once we get to a more favorable rate backdrop? Let me start with the last one and pick up on just some comments Brian made again.
The decline in margin has been because of decline in transactional revenue.
In addition over the last couple of quarters there has been a lot of market volatility.
The markets have ended down in certain months and that affects what we make on asset management.
We were hoping a better market environment.
We would see some improvement in some aspects of the transactional business because there is a lot of selling of mutual fund products and other products there.
And then again as I pointed out we’ve got a business here with close to $140 billion in loans and $240 billion $260 billionish of deposits and as rates move we’re going to start seeing some benefit from that with which the payout ratio is quite different than on the more traditional asset management products.
So that I really do think is the revenue story that will affect margins.
And again in the first quarter of this year we’re going to see $100 reduction in expenses because of the run off of compensation programs we put in place around the Merrill merger.
So I think that's what I would say about margins.
What was the second part of the question? Can you just tell me about to what extent if you could at least segregate the secular versus cyclical headwind components on the revenue side but I think that you adequately addressed that in your response.
Yes just I think people have to think about Steven the margin has come down we think it’s flooring out here and will start to pick back up in part because of some of the unfundamental changes in the ATP program running off and stuff but we have invested in a PMD program it cost a few hundred million dollars of drag to do that that’s the right thing to actually build advisor base over time to service the clients.
And the team; if you look at it underneath the U.S.
-- the flows and stuff are strong in the U.S.
trust business.
It is having some of its best quarters ever just because of the difference and that it didn’t have the secular run off you referred to in terms of the fee based business.
So it’s a good business it does a good job to its clients.
We expect more out of it and that is the job for John and Keith and Andy and Terry to go forward.
Thanks Brian.
And maybe just switching over to the credit side I appreciate the detailed disclosure you guys have given on the energy book and we’re just hoping you could provide both exposure and reserve levels maybe some area - other areas of the commodities complex specifically metals and mining.
We are - we feel good about our mills and mining exposure.
It is about $8 billion but most of that exposure is much more short dated and much more collateral so we feel good about that exposure.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to the initial provision guidance you’ve given just thinking about it from a modeling perspective is it the right way for us to be thinking about the provision rate for 2016 taking that $800 million to $900 million on quarterly run rate plus whatever additional energy driven reserve building we should be contemplating which presumably is incremental? Yes that's not a bad way to think about it.
Again remember our guidance from last quarter we said $800 million to $900 million for the first two quarters of 2016 and the way I will think about those two quarters would be we'll see some lumpiness.
But the one thing overall is that as you look at the question on the exposure that we’re also paying close attention to is it sort of a demand or supply issue for oil prices and if it’s a supply issue that affects these companies and related companies demand and demand from but if it is a demand in the broadest context i.e.
economies need to continue to slow down and that’s the broader concern.
So we’re looking at not only the impacts in all the portfolios thinking about who gets the benefits on our portfolio basis from low energy cost which are serious benefits to the consumers and companies that consume energy versus those producing it.
And so there is a balance here that we’ve got to think through right now that’s pretty isolated the energy companies and even if you look at consumers who work for them in our basis by ZIP code and unemployment levels and stuff we’ve seen relatively modest deterioration in the consumer side before employing these businesses.
So I think as you are thinking about it the real question is going to come down to you for 2016 in terms of all our industriesare we in a demand driven issue i.e.
general economic issue is the United States going to plug along and if it does then false guidance is the right one.
If you are in the supply it is going to all be localized on these industries.
Yes I mean if it is not demand it’s again worth emphasizing.
There are a lot of people who are helped by low oil prices that helps our asset quality not only on the consumer side but also in places like India and manufacturers all around the world.
Okay.
All right thanks guys very helpful and thanks for taking my question.
We’ll move next to Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
Thanks very much.
I was just wondering if you could help me think through a little bit your GAAP and risk weighted assets over the first half of the year given the growth dynamics that are pretty robust in some of the run-offs and then also some of the changes that are going through on the RWA calculations? So you’re talking about the first half of 2016? Correct.
Well on a standardized basis I think you’re going to see RWA trend up if we’re able to grow deposits and loans.
On an advanced basis there’s all sorts of puts and takes there.
I don’t think you’ll see as much growth as you would on a standardized basis on an advanced basis yes as you were on a standardized basis as we continue to work on RWA.
Okay.
And so what are the -- kind of what are the implications of that then for your regulatory capital ratios? Well we need to get to regulatory from a CET1 under an advanced basis.
Our goal is to get to 10% plus or above by 2019.
So we’re at 9.8 I feel like we got the time to do that.
We're certainly not going to need to take all that time.
We would expect to get there soon but it is impacted changes in rates changes and OCI we are returning we are hopefully returning capital but we’re not - we feel like we’re on track to get to 10% plus an appropriate buffer there.
And the only other thing I would add is we still have some opportunities to optimize RWA from an advanced perspective that’s in two fundamental areas.
It’s always tough.
You can do in markets and other areas but in two fundamental areas one is the extra RWA we got on the wholesale side when we exited parallel run that is not a permanent thing.
We need to work on – work with our regulators and hopefully over time we can make some improvements there.
The other one is operational risk we have $500 billion of RWA operations with some of the advanced approach.
That is 25% more net higher to bank and that operational risk is for businesses that we are no longer in it with products we no longer sell it’s for a risk profile that we no longer tolerate.
So again that will take time but that is another opportunity for us to lower RWA through an advanced perspective.
Thanks and if I can just sneak in one more and when you talk about an appropriate buffer are you thinking in method one or method two as a baseline? I think a buffer to the capital we’re thinking we’re basically thinking we need to be above the 10% we would say 25 to 50 basis points would be where -- Got it.
Okay thanks very much.
We will move next to the site of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
Just a quick follow-up on the loan growth side I know you talked about the credit quality underneath the commercial side but after 13% 14% loan growth a year do you think you can maintain that type of pace of growth given some of the concerns we’ve seen underlying even if quality is holding up? So just I guess your general outlook for loan growth rates and can it match or maintain what you did last year? Thanks.
Yes look I’m not sure we are in the business of giving guidance on loan growth.
We think we can grow if we’re looking for some perspective from us I wouldn’t even call it guidance mid-single digit is what we hope we can accomplish.
Okay.
Continue to be driven by commercial would you say? I think it’s going to be continued to be driven by commercial but you're going to see growth in consumers as well.
Yep and just a quick second one you’ve been growing the mortgage business again what is your outlook for continuing to take share in the mortgage business and kind of -- have we seen the bottoming of results on the fee side of mortgage? Well we are - in our mortgage business I think we are focused on originating prime and sort of non-conforming loans.
I would - there has been good progress I think if you look over the last year the number of non-conforming loans that we are originating has increased meaningfully.
And I would remind you that those loans we booked on our balance sheet.
So that’s NBI when you’re booking when you’re selling less loans it is going to affect your NBI income but it is going to come through [indiscernible] on a more annualized basis.
Absolutely.
From a broader -- leave aside the fees because of the geography and how the accounting works and when you put 60% 70% loans on balance sheet in terms of overall production we expect to continue to make progress because you can see that numbers that we’re going to – as other people are flattening out we continue to have lots of opportunities with our core customers setting out and still that are creditworthy in our customer base we are still getting to move it elsewhere and that is what the team is chipping away.
And it is never going to be the hugest business of Bank of America compared to things like the Merrill Lynch business consumer the credit card business in consumer but we expect to get broader market share from each of the segments.
Yes I think it is interesting I am considering entirely this is directly 100% correlating we've done all the work but we’ve added sales professionals in our branches that are focused on originating mortgages that are more prime oriented.
We’ve got them working with our GWIM specialists.
That client group is generally more prime oriented and we see progress we see the prime loans growing.
All right.
Thanks guys.
We’ll move next to Brian Foran of Autonomous Research.
Hi good morning.
I guess on commercial if you could follow up on the ex-energy comments in you experience what are some of the best leading indicators for the commercial credit cycle and what kind of trends have you seen again ex-energy and those leading indicators over the past couple months that gives you confidence that thinks you’re stable? Well I would think about that.
We spend a lot of time.
Our credit people do spend a lot of time just homing [ph] through that portfolio and looking at cash flows from the companies and making sure we understand the collateral making sure we fully understand our structures so I think it’s just a lot of locking and tackling and talking to clients and making sure we understand what’s going on with their businesses in terms of the energy portfolio.
I would emphasize again that outside of the energy portfolio we are not seeing movement in NPL and criticize in our assets.
Our NPLs continue to come down.
And then if I could ask a follow up along the same lines on the consumer side I guess two parts one you made the point that even in energy heavy geographies you are not seeing any adverse change in the consumer? In parts specifically just since it is such a big credit line are early delinquencies still coming in better than expected or are they stable or how would you characterize the current early delinquency trends and then on home equity since again that’s another big outsize portion of the reserve is there any update you can give us on how the first wave of HELOC recasts or switches to amortization schedules have performed versus what you had modeled? Sure so in terms of the card we look at our credit losses.
They are at low points historic low points and they have been bumping around at that level.
We’ve seen a little bit of increase the last couple of quarters but that again I think is just a reflection of things that's bumping around at really low levels.
In terms of the home equity end of draw based on the volume we’ve seen to-date which we've seen a lot of volume the portfolio is performing in line with our expectations and we continue to monitor the end of draw portfolio and continue to work with our customers to manage the risk.
And I just would remind everybody that these borrowers have paid through the downturn and this portfolio continues to improve as home prices improve.
The risk is an ongoing part of our reserve process and we think we’re all reserved.
Thank you very much.
Just on card and yes it was 30 days delinquency or 90 they came down during the course of -- from the end of '14 all the way through '15 and in both cases is running at multiple year lows in both percentage wise and nominal amounts so we’re seeing no deterioration of credit in either of those and the same with of the home equities.
It is just in the home equities we just have a little more clean up because of the legacy portfolio in there.
We’ll move next to Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Your line is open.
Brennan? And for your interruption we lost Mr.
Hawken.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll move next to Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Go ahead please.
Hi I have one question for Paul one for Brian.
Paul lower energy prices you said can help certain segments such as consumers.
Can you give any examples of that and also on the energy topic if oil stays at 30 then your provisions for energy would go up by how much I didn’t understand the answer from before? Well let me take the last one first so we’ve got a reserve on our energy portfolio of $500 million.
That is 6% of those two filled factors that we can call high risk and we have done modeling stress test modeling at various oil prices.
The one we have been talking about on this call has been at $30 and that’s over nine quarters and so if oil stays at $30 for nine quarters we would think that our losses over those nine quarters would be $700 million.
Again that will go against the $500 we already have reserved and one would presume we're building reserves during that time period to make up the difference.
So Mike when you look at consumer benefits from the oil and gas just to give you a simple thing if you look at our card base in the fourth quarter of '15 the spending on debit credit cards rose 4% from the fourth quarter of '14 and if gas prices would have been stable they would have grown at 5.7%.
And so what that means is consumers had effectively on that base of 1.7% to-date received the benefit of year-over-year.
If you translate that to dollars round numbers as $20 million a day is less spending on gasoline by our consumers in our portfolios per day.
And from like $90 million down to $70-ish million or something like that that is the benefit they get and so for a large number of consumers median income the cash flow increases and that gives them more money to spend.
Okay do you think people are being too negative on the decline in oil prices you’re implying it has a nice simulative effect but people sure aren’t taking that these days.
I think Mike it comes down to a question whether you think this is a - the oil price is a reflection of a broader issue of growth in economies we’re going to get slow growth 2.5% in the U.S.
and IMF [ph] said I guess 3.5% in the world.
If you’re going to get that in '16 it is going to be isolated.
This negatives could be isolated the oil companies and related commodity producers just because of slow growth environment.
If you are saying this is going to be a much different economic scenario than most [indiscernible] so called consensus predicts.
It’s a broader based problem but right now it's really an oversupply of oil driving prices down and that’s impacting the people in the industry and rest of the consumers that means corporate customer and consumers that use oil and energy are getting a good benefit.
And again Mike the only thing I would say is I mean Brian is spot on but the demand issue is kind of we are going to see it in other parts of the economy however we have not seen that yet we have not seen change in our asset quality outside of energy.
And then if I can shift gears Brian I know I have asked this question in other years but I know you are not satisfied with the mid 60s core efficiency ratio and I know you’re not satisfied with a single-digit ROE.
So what is your specific financial target for efficiency and ROE and what is your timeframe to get there? As we said we ran about 9% it has just been travelling about 9.5% for the year and return to annual common equity.
We believe we have a path to get that to 12.
Rates get us part of it and hard work on expenses and core revenue growth and driving gets us the rest of it and so LAS expense drop-in and we're chipping away that if you look from '14 to '15 we made substantial steps and we will continue to drive away.
We haven’t put a specific timeframe on it.
It’s just a goal to keep driving and we will drive beyond that.
On efficiency it follows that - as an efficiency it follows that sort of math.
Right now we are operating 66% 67% probably normalized for 2015 and between LAS we can drop that down to 65% and that is just hard work and we’re grinding away every day.
You're seeing loans grow you're seeing deposits grow and so you should see improvement in 2016.
Any expense initiative plan Paul since you've had a couple of quarters now to take a look at that? Are we looking for like an extra billion or kind of like a new BAC program or what are you thinking about there? Expenses are on our mind every day at Bank of America.
We have - everybody focuses on expense discipline that’s translating to our culture under our simplified and improved program where the teams are always coming up with ideas to make it simpler for our customers to make it simple for our employees and improve the expenses of the company that is how we’re going to achieve our objectives around core expenses that we talked about on this call.
We’re all very focused on expenses.
All right.
Thank you.
And it appears that we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to return the program back to our host for any concluding remarks.
Thank you everyone.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.