Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Dan.
Good morning everyone and we're very glad you could join us today for Anadarko's second quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
And a significant – a number of factors could affect our results materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
Additionally we have provided more detail in the Quarterly Operations Report on our website.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and we'll open up the lines in a few minutes for Q&amp;A with Al and our executive team.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John.
And I think as you recall from our first quarter earnings call we've approached this year with caution given the volatility of commodity prices and as an opportunity for Anadarko to capitalize on the depth and strength of our portfolio.
The achievements to date have far surpassed our expectations and this is largely a result of the efforts and commitments of our employees.
We continue to focus on enhancing cash margins and portfolio value which has resulted in tremendous growth in our higher margin oil sales volumes.
Full-year sales volumes are expected to be above our initial guidance by approximately 20 000 barrels per day with reductions in nearly every expense category and continued strong safety performance.
More specifically we've driven our drilling cost down in the Wattenberg field by almost 35% in the last six months and doubled our rig efficiency over the last year drilling the same number of wells with half the rigs.
In the Delaware Basin we've reduced drilling costs by about $0.5 million per well and completions by nearly 45% year-over-year.
Our efficiencies and savings will enable us to drill more than 100 wells this year with our current capital expectations and with no belief that we're going to increase our capital plans beyond initial guidance through the balance of the year.
In addition to the short-cycle successes I just described we are also continuing to make excellent progress on our mid-cycle opportunities while achieving strong results with our deepwater exploration program.
Of particular note in Colombia we are very excited about the potential of our first well in this offshore frontier basin.
As mentioned in our Ops Report we have encountered 130 feet to 230 feet of net pay what we believe to be in a natural gas prone objective.
With additional work once we've finished the well we'll better understand this discovery.
Our drilling operations are continuing as we're now looking to test the next lower objective.
Along with our partner Ecopetrol we look forward to further updates on our Kronos well once we've completed it and moved the rig to our next prospect about 100 miles away.
About two weeks ago I had the opportunity to visit with President Nyusi in Mozambique.
We discussed the excellent progress that has been made by all parties in the negotiation of various agreements supporting the plan of development to be submitted in the coming months.
We are very encouraged with these developments and how they position the project for FID following government approval of the POD.
Turning to the financial results we finished the quarter again in very strong financial condition as you can see from our earnings release.
This financial position was enhanced by accelerating more than $575 million of value from our MLP franchise through a secondary sale of WGP units and an innovative structure for WGP-Linked Tangible Equity Units which we believe to be an offering that we hope to continue to do in the future.
I'm very pleased with these achievements so far in 2015.
I have the confidence in our ability to continue delivering attractive returns future growth when economics warrant optionality through our exploration and ongoing portfolio management.
Similar to the first half of the year we'll continue to focus the next six months on improving our cash margins and creating value in our portfolio.
I'm going to stop here but before opening it up for questions I want to take a moment and introduce Darrell Hollek today.
Darrell has the unenviable task of succeeding Chuck Meloy who we believe is a legend in our business in the role of leading our onshore E&amp;P efforts.
As you can see from the Q2 results the handoff has gone well and we're delighted to have Darrell join us today.
So with that let's go to questions.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question today comes from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys and great results today.
My first question really phenomenal improvements and relative improvements in efficiencies in the quarter and year-over-year as highlighted in the Wattenberg.
Really two questions here I mean where do you see the limits on efficiencies and cost savings from here? And secondly what drives or influences your decision to recycle efficiency gains into CapEx versus potentially reducing CapEx given the current and forward commodity curves? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well appreciate the questions and thank you for the nice comments.
I think probably best that Darrell and I tackle this together.
Let me just say as it relates to the latter point I think we believe that we're investing our cash with very attractive rates of return.
I think you've heard us talk many many times about the fact that the Wattenberg area being enhanced by the mineral interest that we have there coupled with the efficiencies associated with what we have done to-date and have done so well historically.
We are continuing to put capital there and we'll continue even into 2016 in what is now continuing to be a lower price environment one that I'm sure you recall we were pretty cautious about last time we were together on our first quarter earnings call.
But I think as it relates to the Wattenberg in particular the only constraint we have there is just trying to stay as close as we can overall to investing capital that's close to our discretionary cash flow for the year.
The rates of return are very attractive and that's the reason you see us continuing to do the things that we do in that asset.
I'll let Darrell if you don't mind address the first half of the question.
Great.
Yeah.
In terms of your question on efficiency it's hard to imagine how much further we can go.
The team really surprises us every quarter and we've continued to go down.
If you listen to Al's comments about our drilling performance where we've now been able to get our well cost at least the drilling portion down to less than $1 million a copy.
And so there's a lot of really good work in terms of how we designed our wells and how we reduced our non-productive time while drilling and then obviously we had some vendor reductions.
But when you get down to $1 million a copy we're now drilling these wells in five days or less and we've just started that we've got about 50 wells like that.
So we'll continue to move our other rig lines toward that.
What that really does for us it allows us to drill considerably more wells in this case around 70 wells as compared to what we were doing a year ago at 35 wells.
And so is there room? I hope so in this commodity market.
We're going to continue to push forward.
But the team again has done a great job and aside from that you look at the completions they've done a really nice job there as well of getting our cost down.
So for about $3.5 million now we're drill completing and equipping these wells.
But I do want to send out kudos to our midstream group as well we've put on 90 million cubic feet per day of compression in the first quarter.
We did that again in the second quarter.
So bringing down those line pressures are really helping our volumes as well so it's sort of a team effort out in that area.
That's great.
That's helpful.
And a second question if I could on Mozambique.
I mean is the decision – and I appreciate the update.
I mean is the decision to FID the project by year-end conditioned on either owning any reduced interest or upon the commodity outlook at the time? And I know your economics are underpinned by long-term contracts post 2020 on a turnkey EPC contract but you're obviously – your future cash flows are affected by any protracted downside.
So any kind of color there as we move into the back-half of the year would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And I can understand some of the questions.
I will say I think we've reiterated before our interest in selling down from here approaches zero from the standpoint that we believe if we're going to be in this project we want to be operator.
And so selling down additional interest below where we are today would put into question whether or not we'd be the operator.
So just the pure arithmetic of it doesn't have any interest from that perspective.
As it relates to gating issue to get into FID.
I think the biggest gating issue I can highlight for you would be just getting the plan of development approved by the government.
In some ways we have some control over that as through the submittal process and the things that lead up to it.
But in terms of actually having the government approve the POD that would be the biggest gating issue leading to FID.
Great.
And what drove the kind of free upsizing under that turnkey contract by the EPC firms? Was that a concern about a rebid or can you discuss that at all? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
So the question is – and this is Jim – what drove the upsizing on the size of the liquefaction trains.
Well we ran a competitive FEED for the liquefaction facilities and during that competitive FEED the consortiums that were in the process had made advancements to engineering and technologies where they could upscale the capacity of the plants.
And so those plants which were originally targeted for 5 million tons per annum per train were upsized essentially to 6 million tons per annum.
They had installed and designed plants like that in the past.
Papua New Guinea is a good example of the most recent LNG facility.
And so those efficiencies were factored in and we received upsized plants or trains in this case for similar 5 million ton per annum costs.
Got it.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for the questions.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Al.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sir.
Absolutely.
Thanks Doug.
No worries.
Good to know.
Just a couple of quick questions please.
So first of all on disposals the Bossier sale that you obviously had a fairly good price in the – just towards of back end of the quarter I guess is not completed yet.
But when I look through the Ops Report I see a number of other areas that don't have current rig activity.
I guess Wamsutter would come to mind Marcellus would come to mind and obviously there's a couple of others Hugoton and so on.
So I'm just kind of wondering what your non-core asset disposal program is for things like Ozona Wamsutter and Marcellus and so on and what processes you have underway currently.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Hey Doug it's Bob Gwin.
Good question that we'll decline to address relative to the specific assets that we're looking at but from a philosophical standpoint you're looking at the portfolio the way that we do.
We're looking at non-core assets and the fact that we think at least currently this remains a seller market.
There are a lot of assets that are not going to attract capital in our portfolio but still have really nice return characteristics and economics and quite a bit of tail left on them and those assets are attractive to some others.
And so we continue to look at the broader portfolio try to determine which ones we'd like to hang onto as a part of our future inventory and which ones we think might be better owned by someone else.
We've got a couple of processes underway currently and we're going to continue to refine and upgrade the portfolio.
Our view is if we can take the proceeds from those types of asset sales and redeploy it in not only our onshore shorter-cycle opportunities but some of these mid and longer-cycle opportunities that that's a significant value creator from a macro standpoint.
Bob maybe while I have you then the process I think with Bossier as I understand it it was something close to 100 folks interested in the data room and the way it was characterized to me at least to was above strip pricing through 3P resource valuation; obviously you got a great price for it.
But how would you characterize the current M&amp;A environment for assets? Is it still that healthy? Well we certainly think and hope so but obviously with commodity prices backing up fairly sharply on a percentage basis more recently than the time that we were marketing that Bossier asset we'll see.
Each asset's unique specifics relative to the asset and its specific location within these various basins and the amount of capital chasing the opportunities relevant to the asset we're selling is really the determining factor in terms of how strong your bid process is.
We don't expect we'd sell everything we would target we'll look to see if we think the sales price is attractive and we've got one we're pretty close on now it's relatively small and from a macro standpoint this is good for us.
Because it helps us to clean up the portfolio reallocate not only our capital but our people and our attention on the things that are going to add the most value.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Doug this is Al let me just add on the buy side of that same commentary we've been reasonably unsuccessful if I can use that as a term in trying to buy things in the Delaware Basin where I think we have a cost advantage we clearly through Western Gas have a processing advantage and yet we see time and again people coming in there and buying things at prices that surprise us.
I will also say that we've been – we fought fairly aggressively on a couple of things and were bid or rather were outbid by 2X.
So to Bob's comment it seems to be a seller's market and even in an area where I'd say we have significant advantages in terms of both geological and economic we're still not a successful buyer in a asset that we would like to add to but only at the right price.
I appreciate the answer.
My follow-up is hopefully a little quicker.
Again in the Ops Report a lot of discussion about some of the really interesting exploration success you've had but two that strike me as kind of significant by the fact that they're not included is Coronado.
Given your lease win recently on Phobos I'm just wondering if you could share your latest thoughts on those two and I'll leave it there please.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah Doug it's Bob.
Coronado is part of the Shenandoah mini-basin.
We've got a discovery there that we've appraised.
So we think we've got a pretty good handle on what it is.
We recently picked up the blocks again.
We had some expiries that we had to put back in and then picked them back up and that's going to stay that way until we have Shenandoah development plans put in place because we see it as a tie-back through that facility.
The other one that you mentioned was Phobos? Phobos yeah.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah.
Phobos we're looking at potential appraisal well in early 2016 we're trying to get all the partners aligned get their views on what the – how they see it.
And then get that into the drilling schedule that's being worked as we speak.
Bob did your working interest in Coronado move up? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yes it did.
Can you quantify it? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> I don't remember the exact number but it did move up.
Okay.
I'll leave it there guys.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
With the additional wells that you're drilling as a result of efficiency gains this year and an increase in the backlog of drilled but uncompleted wells it seems like you should have a lot of flexibility to turn the machine back on when you see fit.
Can you just talk to what you're looking for in the commodity markets your balance sheet and your CapEx cash flow profile assuming the current cost structure holds to more aggressively begin completing that backlog? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead.
Yeah.
This is Darrell Brian.
Again because we have drilled the wells we are going to have a significant uplift in what we would call the DUCs the drilled but uncompleted.
We went in last quarter saying we'd probably carry over 125 into next year and as we see it now we're probably going to do – carry over around 200 but I would say based on your comments we do tend to be very flexible here.
We'll probably stand up at least one completion rig to complete some of the extra wells being drilled.
Going into the year as we pulled down capital we went from four completion crews down to one in Wattenberg as we speak today.
But we'll be standing one up in August.
And beyond that we'll be flexible to just see what our needs are.
And as it relates to more the balance sheet and how we might fund such things Brian with the asset sales that we're pursuing and the fact that even just on a clean basis we basically spent within cash flow in the most recent quarter.
We've got the flexibility to use our cash position if we choose to.
But that's going to be driven by the economics available of completing and producing those wells and what environment we're selling that flush production into.
So do you think about a goal then of being CapEx cash flow neutral post asset sale pre-asset sale or somewhere in between? Yeah no.
I would think certainly neutral or better when you include asset sales.
And if you look at our original guidance for the year we were essentially looking at funding our CapEx program this year with our cash flow as – plus the sale proceeds from the EOR transaction of $700 million earlier this year.
Obviously we've done well at continuing to monetize things beyond that that gives us even more flexibility.
And of course we're pretty focused on keeping that balance sheet healthy and very cognizant of what our leverage position is because no one knows what the depth or the length of the commodity price downturn is going to look like.
So we're trying to just maintain flexibility but obviously we have the ability to turn up the spigot both from a cash standpoint and from an opportunity standpoint if and when the economics warrant it.
Thanks.
That's great.
And then my follow-up actually goes back to the – to Doug's question earlier on the M&amp;A environment which you characterized as a seller's market.
I think the focus though on what you were talking about there was on buying or selling assets.
With equity valuations having come down can you just talk about whether – how you look at the corporate environment whether you see corporate valuations attractive whether there is more of an opportunity to buy companies versus to buy assets here and maybe on the other side where – what your view is on where the majors stand on taking a greater interest in U.S.
shale? We look as lots of corporate opportunities.
Obviously we like most companies have screening tools and look at relative value differentials between how our equity trades and potential target equities trade.
Asset values are high corporate values are low that would lead one to believe that the opportunities the better opportunities may exist from a corporate standpoint.
However few corporate opportunities are actually perfect fits from a portfolio perspective so you introduce execution risk and whether or not you're making your company as efficient on a pro forma basis as it is going into a transaction.
So we consider all those things and look at it and we – we'll see the – it's going to be an interesting second half of the year here driven by the commodity-price environment and if the market stays relatively weak then obviously the opportunity to do something might go up.
But we're just trying to remain flexible enough to take advantage of opportunity if it exists.
You're latter question on the majors I don't know I mean it's hard to know what they're thinking of and what they're looking at.
So we're just trying to focus on the way we can build the best company and hopefully be as attractive to all our shareholders as possible.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Brian this is Al.
Let me just add one thing or two to Bob's comments which I think he represents the views of us quite well on the topic you asked him about.
As it relates to an M&amp;A transaction and I'll go back to a comment I've made on prior calls.
And that is our objective is to get better not bigger and if getting bigger allows us to get better then that's okay we like the position we've got we like the assets we're in we like the exploration opportunities that we have in-house.
If we see a company that has assets that are complementary then I think that would cause us to take a harder look at them but just buying somebody that's distressed with assets that don't fit the piece of the puzzle the way we see the puzzle looking probably should be considered way outside the white stakes.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
And congrats on a nice quarter.
Colombia can you just give us – Colombia with an O not a U.
Can you just give us your thoughts on Colombia and what you've seen thus for and just a quick pic there? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah David this is Bob.
So we're on the first well Kronos we know.
So we found between 130 feet and 230 feet of pay in the upper objective of that well.
The reason for the range is it's some laminated sands low contrast and so we're waiting on some rock data.
We think that – we're very confident of the 130 feet and we think the 230 feet is very realistic also but we don't want to get over our skis until we know really what we've got there.
It is all gas charged but we – flex – at (23:28) any time that you go into a frontier basin and your first well in the first objective finds what you're kind of looking for we're very very encouraged with it.
And then when we look at what the gas is telling us it does look like it's originally thermogenic but it was thermogenic liquids that have been biodegraded.
Given the textures that we're seeing here and the depth that this was at all of the geochemistry seems to be indicating that which is an indirect evidence that we do have an oil generating system that matches in with our petroleum systems work and the temperatures that we're seeing.
We're not seeing a hot basin here like we were seeing in Mozambique.
We're seeing increasing heavier components as we go deeper in the well bore.
We have not seen any direct evidence of oil at this point but all the indirect evidence is pointing to very consistent with our original pre-drill estimates that this should be an oil prone system and in the shallower objectives very similar to what we see in Eastern Gulf of Mexico.
We're seeing biodegraded thermal liquids and that turns into methane.
So everything we've seen to-date is extremely encouraging.
We've got to get down to the second objective here.
We just have geomechanical issues.
We've got to work our way through to get this well down.
But we're making progress and then move up to Calasu which is 100 miles away on the same blocks.
And see what we have there in a very different play style but as we've always said we've got multiple play styles multiple objectives out here.
This is a huge acreage position with about 6 million acres down in the Fuerte area about 10 up in the Col area.
And so we've got a lot of running room here and we're very very encouraged with what we've seen.
Thanks.
Good detail.
And then what's the – remind me what's the drilling obligation out here? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> This is our obligation on the Fuerte Sur Block and then the Calasu will be the obligation well in the Fuerte Norte Block and that's it.
That's our only obligation.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are planning on next year coming back and probably appraising Kronos.
And then we're putting together rest of the drilling schedule in Colombia.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I'm going to circle back to CapEx.
I just want to make – I'm just trying to get your guys' thoughts.
Obviously you're a leader in the industry as goes the sentiment right now goes to group.
But I'm just trying to figure out if you think about 2016 if you think about the rest of this year obviously like you mentioned Bob you're plus or minus cash flow right now at least in this quarter.
If you end up – efficiencies continue you obviously don't want to get your DUC number to 400.
Like how do you think about that balance you spend that additional CapEx if there is such a thing this year doing more exploration.
And I'm just trying to think about how you guys picture the environment right now and then what do you see as a likely outcome for – as you roll into 2016? I know obviously it's all price dependent but I'm just trying to get more clarity? Well for 2015 as Al mentioned earlier we have no expectations of increasing the capital budget this year and obviously we had the opportunities to decrease it but we're just getting a lot more done for the same dollars this year.
When we look to 2016 a lot of it's going to be based upon 2016 cash flow.
Certainly we expect to see some proceeds from asset sales.
We feel pretty good about the ability to continue to move either through the tangible equity units or direct secondary sales continue to move additional of our WGP holdings in the market.
So it's going to be – the opportunity is going to be available to us to spend more money in 2016 and to outspend cash flow.
But as we get some little bit better clarity on where we think what that cash flow number is going to look like in 2016.
We're going to be working with the board to decide whether it's within cash flow or something in excess of it.
Either way we expect that we'll be able within cash flow plus asset sale proceeds.
And so therefore we avoid putting any pressure on the balance sheet or adding any incremental financial risk to the company's profile.
Okay.
Just one – I had one qualifier and I'll jump off.
So if I think about it today obviously Niobrara with the royalty exit that works and you made the comment earlier economic sense.
Today at the strip with current service cost with current efficiencies as of today does it make sense to – like how do you think about economic sense in a snapshot today as far as...? Well we could on the margin obviously we could on the margin push on the production accelerator somewhat in the Wattenberg.
The economics are intrinsically attractive and then when you include the royalty component the math's pretty attractive there.
I would imagine it's one of the better assets in North America from a return standpoint today.
However those are also your Tier 1 assets and some of the best assets in the portfolio that the margins on those assets were substantially higher in the past.
We've talked in the past about 100% type rates of return just last year.
And so while we're comfortable continuing to work down that drilled and uncompleted inventory somewhat working it down aggressively in an environment where we are earning fewer absolute dollar margins per barrel solely to achieve a growth objective that we don't believe is terribly valued in the current environment doesn't seem to make the most sense.
And it's an option for us and it's an option we might choose to pursue if we thought the current environment was going to be protracted and we were somehow in a new normal in this – in a $50-esque oil environment.
We don't believe that's true over the intermediate to longer term.
So we believe there is more value in moderating the production growth in the current environment and accelerating it in the future when the value is there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David.
Can I just add one thing to Bob and that is I think we think of this business as a margin business not as a top line business.
So therefore the price doesn't trigger meaning the hydrocarbon price doesn't trigger our interest in capital allocation.
It's really the margin and I don't need to explain to you or probably folks on the call but the velocity change in the hydrocarbon price has greatly exceeded the velocity change that we've realized to-date on service cost.
So we still even with the tremendous amount of hardship that service providers have gone through in the first half of the year.
We as an upstream company still don't have the margin we had a year ago and don't have a margin that gives us the kind of return that I think would prompt us to believe that we need to go back into a growth mode and I think just to belabor the point a little further we still see the uncertainty that we made reference to in the first quarter with respect to sustainable prices giving us an encouragement to go back into the growth mode and don't think the rest of this year is likely to create that and we're going to watch what happens this year as hopefully an indication of what we might think for 2016.
Okay.
All right that took more than my time.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
It seems like the Delaware Basin is getting a little bit more attention from you all this quarter.
If I step back and look at last quarter it seems like reduced some of the focus on it in part because of infrastructure constraints can you all give us an update on if there could be incremental capital going there even at these prices say into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the reason you're hearing a little more volume is that we are turning up the dial a little bit on that simply because we got more drilling results.
We also if you recall late last year made a very attractive acquisition via Western Gas for additional infrastructure.
That infrastructure is – we have done in the Western playbook for the Wattenberg is very key to the way we think about a very major development opportunity in a basin that today is still in the early stages.
I also made reference to the fact that while we think we have a unique position to be able to be a consolidator there to date we've not seen opportunities to pick up properties that we otherwise would like to see just simply because there is more capital chasing this than we think is reasonable.
That said I think given the again very large position we had going into this before anyone knew anything about it has now become a very well-known play and certainly the attention that it has received from lots of private equity backed firms as well as publicly traded firms is why you're hearing more volume from us and more volume from others and I think Darrell can give you a little bit of color as to why we're seeing some of that for what it makes for Anadarko to put capital towards it.
Because again our capital has to compete on an internal rate of return basis with other places to invest and today behind the Wattenberg the Permian Basin in particular the Delaware portion of the Permian Basin has that pole position in the number two spot.
So Darrell? Yeah.
I think Al sums it up well but this is an area you're going to hear a lot about from us and from industry.
It's just huge and if you look at our position we've had seven rigs running out here now and we talked about some of the efficiencies we've picked up in the Wattenberg.
But our drilling efficiencies have actually picked up in all of our locations including Eagle Ford and Delaware and so we do have some what we think room in terms of where we're spending our capital.
So we're actually moving a rig as we speak into Delaware an eighth rig and we may yet move a ninth one over there.
And we're not to the point that we're doing pad drilling yet we're still learning a lot about the acreage we have because we got a really large position here.
But I can tell you we're pretty excited about what we're seeing.
We've got one completion crew there now and there is a good chance we'll stand up a second completion crew there as well as we drill additional wells.
But that's again that's going to part of that flexibility as we play out the rest of the year but that's a really exciting area for us and everything we're finding is encouraging and I would say even from last year our well costs have gone down about $1 million on the drilling and completion side.
So we've got a lot of really good things happening in that area and I think you can expect to continue to hear a lot about Delaware from us.
Yeah.
More specifically with – obviously you addressed the cost side of things but on well performance side what have you seen incrementally? Do you have some color around that? And I know you all were looking at the Wolfcamp A as well as the Bone Spring formation.
Is there an update on how some of those pilots have gone? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our focus right now is the Wolfcamp A that's where you're seeing all of our drilling right now.
I can tell you though we have drilled a Bone Springs 2 well you're hearing about that from industry well we've got what we feel is about 100 000 acres of Bone Springs 2 sitting on our acreage as well.
We've drilled that well but it won't get completed until August.
So those results will be forthcoming in the second half of the year.
But what we're seeing in the Wolfcamp A again continued to be pretty consistent across our acreage.
And so that's really encouraging for us.
Yeah and I guess I misspoke I meant the Lower Wolfcamp pay.
I think you were looking at the Upper and the Lower Wolfcamp pay.
Have you kind of defined the opportunity between those two formations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not yet.
But one of the reasons we are looking to bring additional rigs in there is to make sure we're testing all the horizons.
So you should see some results coming in the future on that.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning everyone.
Al I know you and your team there have already fielded a lot of questions on your CapEx posture going forward.
And I think this may be a case of no good deed going unpunished since last quarter you guys had the prescient call of not wanting to accelerate and noting that you thought there was a possibility of oil prices can head back down.
But you mentioned that I think if I heard you correctly that you said you did not foresee in the back half of 2015 the conditions coming around where that would lead you to want to accelerate.
But can you share with us again since you have the hot hand right now it seems on looking at the oil market what's your outlook for 2016? How long do you think it's going to be before you can put more money back to work either on your operations or the A&amp;D front on the asset side specifically? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I appreciate the comments.
Those are not necessarily mine; I'd say they're the thoughts collectively of our management team I just happened to make them that particular day.
As it relates to how we think about allocation of capital the second half of the year I'll come back to a comment I made a few minutes ago.
And it's really more about the margin and not about the hydrocarbon price.
We still see some improvement from the service sector in terms of our abilities to improve margins.
I think there is a lot of things we've done that are permanent as it relates to the efficiencies that we've put in place.
So it's not just price reductions from various service vendors that in a different hydrocarbon price environment would come back to us as a higher price these are actually sustainable improvements that will weather the storm of higher prices when we have those.
So it's really looking at the margins that we anticipate from our major asset plays through the balance of the year looking exactly what we think we can achieve with those.
And it just seems unlikely to the six of us today that we're going to have the kind of margins that we have seen historically that would encourage us to go back into a growth mode.
I think there are going to be asset plays we've talked about two of them in particular today in the Delaware Basin and the DJ Basin that we believe even in the environment we're in provides us a rate of return from what we see from – what we get from the upstream and midstream capabilities of the organization.
That's probably a place where we can say with some confidence we'll put capital.
But I'm not sure we as a company and I don't believe we as an industry are anywhere close to the types of margin improvement that's needed before we go back into a growth mode and growth would then in turn be rewarded by investors.
Got it.
So Al would – is a reasonable timeframe for when you'd start to look at 2016 sometime this fall is when you'd start the – that comes into focus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly.
I think you should anticipate that not just Anadarko but we all don't look at things quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year.
I mean we do multi-year planning and we do sensitivities around those and yet with the shale plays in particular I think all of you are quite attuned to the fact that they deplete 50% to 80% in the first year so there we have to be very confident of the margin environment that we're moving into because we're not going to be able to capture that on the back side of the well since so much of the production will have occurred.
So that's why I'm a little hesitant and cautious about exactly when we'll see this company in particular and industry more broadly be encouraged to go back into a growth mode.
Thank you Al.
That's helpful.
And then moving on to kind of asset specific questions.
I know the oil beat you had in Q2 you mentioned the Wattenberg but it seems like the Gulf of Mexico also played a significant part of that and I'm curious how much of that – how much of this – the outperformance on the oil side in the Gulf of Mexico was one-time sort of thing related to the timing or the ramp up of Lucius and how much of that is going to – how much of that is a contributor to your durable guide up for the back half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're very fortunate in that we believe that there is a cocktail out there that's a mix of unconventional and conventional that makes sense for the way in which we think about the business plans that we develop.
And I think you're right you hit on the fact that Lucius is now at nameplate capacity that's important but I'm going to – if you don't mind I'll let Jim will walk you through and talk a little bit – I mean we've got a lot out there and a lot of this goes back to exploration successes that have come out of the Bob Daniels world and the deepwater exploration in the past and we continue as you know from this quarter to have things that we do out there in the deepwater exploration success framework.
So we think that we'll continue to do things.
So Jim if you don't mind just talk a little bit about where we are on the trajectory? International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Right the performance in the Gulf of Mexico has been meeting expectations on all fronts.
Recently we just brought the Lucius facility on and that hit our expectations right on the mark.
The facilities went in as scheduled.
Production ramped up to our nameplate capacity.
We brought in third-party gas across the facility over 300 million cubic feet a day from South Hadrian.
So process handling agreements and cash flow looks very strong.
Following that we have Heidelberg coming on.
So we're expecting the Heidelberg field to first oil in mid part of 2016.
The Heidelberg spar has been set and all the mooring lines are installed so it's storm ready.
The topside has been fully commissioned in the Ingleside yard here.
And it will be scheduled for lift out beginning October when the heavy lift barge the Heerema shows up.
So that's all progressing very well.
And so we have our projects lined up.
We also are looking in-field opportunities throughout the Gulf of Mexico that increase production on some of our legacy fields.
So we see strong performance through the Gulf and anchored really by economical projects that we've taken commercial opportunities on to reduce interest for carried capital rates as we've done in the past with Lucius and Heidelberg.
Thank you Jim.
Our next question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Real quickly I guess last quarter you guys updated us in terms of maintenance CapEx necessary to keep production flat.
Early in the year you had it about $3 billion then you kind of took that range to $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion.
Based on the continued efficiency gains and cost improvements where do you see that today and maybe where do you see that for 2016 just as we try to frame-up an outlook? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think given the really impressive efforts that have come out of our supply chain management and what we believe is still fruit that can be picked from the tree that in that range that we gave you previously you should anticipate we'll be towards the lower end of that range around $2.7 billion.
Okay appreciate that.
And then switching over to Wattenberg just for a second.
You indicated that production is expected to plateau for the balance of the year.
Does that factor in the added compression that should relieve some of the pressure on wells to allow them to flow more freely or is that just potential upside that could come along with it? Yeah.
I think – this is Darrell.
I think the benefit of the additional compression was really seen in the first quarter and second quarter.
How we play out the rest of the year obviously I mentioned we've gone from four completion rigs down to one.
We'll be standing up another one here in the third quarter.
But how the rest of the year plays out really depends on how we handle these DUCs and these additional wells that are currently being drilled.
So right now it's forecasted to decline a little bit but we can turn that around fairly really quickly if that's what we decide to do.
And we'll probably be looking to do some of that as we go into 2016.
Okay appreciate that.
And then maybe just one last one.
Thorvald it's my understanding that didn't hit TD on that.
Can you talk a little bit about the decision on maybe going back and pushing the drill bit again based on what you've seen to-date there? Yeah Dave.
We didn't get to our ultimate objective there.
Again geomechanics and the wellbore design we had to stop.
So we're taking all the data that we've acquired thus far reintegrating it into our seismic interpretation and looking at what the potential of what we didn't see could be what the potential of what we found could be and where we may want to drill a second well and whether that's the right thing to do.
We are the operator of the prospect now that was part of the deal that we had originally is we got 50% working interest and operatorship.
So it's our call if we move forward and you'll probably hear more about that later.
Okay.
Appreciate that color.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
You've talked about cash flow neutrality can you just run us through your cash flow and CapEx for this quarter because I'm just seeing it slightly lower relative to CapEx.
So could you just talk me through you mentioned earlier a clean number I think is what you said in terms of how we should look at the quarter and cash flow? Could you just walk through some of the elements of that and whether or not this is a representative quarter given that it was about a $60 oil price and that's basically what we see on the strip thanks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Paul.
I think you're hitting on a very important point.
I think we were – we did a really good job in the second quarter keeping our CapEx within a close ZIP Code of cash – discretionary cash flow.
We don't believe that prices are likely to improve from here.
So therefore it will be more challenging in the couple quarters ahead of us to continue to have that more neutral cash flow to CapEx.
I think the amount of erosion that we would see or deficit free cash flow is not significant.
And some of this will have to do just going back to a comment Darrell made a few minutes ago about just how much drilled and uncompleted we want to take into next year as inventory versus how much of that would be available to us if we saw a different price environment as I keep reiterating this morning a better margin environment in order to produce into.
So I think while we had great success in the first half of the year quite proud of the way in which the organization responded to the market environment and the way in which the second quarter produced out.
Given where we are at this point in the year where we see the second half of the year being we would be very challenged to continue to be cash flow neutral like we were in the second quarter relative to CapEx and expect CapEx would probably slightly outpace cash flows through the balance of the year.
Okay.
So what you're kind of saying is basically that it is fairly representative number the $1.2 billion of cash flow at $60 I guess obviously we would add in any growth you achieve and then margin improvement I suppose is the other aspect of how to think about it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I really would tell you.
I'm so pleased with and could not be happier with the way in which we've improved our margins.
We've also increased our mix and as I made comments to earlier on this call in my prepared remarks we see our oil production going up through the balance of the year.
And so that favorable mix improvement coupled with further improvements in the margins on the cost side and efficiency side I think will inure to our benefit to be able to keep that gap between discretionary cash flow and CapEx as minimal in terms of the delta as possible.
Yeah.
Fully understood.
And the maintenance CapEx number that you just spoke about.
Could you just rationalize the fact that you're saying you're really not in growth mode against what looks like a much lower potential CapEx number if that maintenance CapEx number that you just gave is a stay flat number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And as I think you can appreciate.
We like some but unlike a lot commit to a lot of medium cycle as well as long-cycle spending in our total CapEx.
And so we will continue to fund exploration in an environment where we believe the option value there is worth a lot to us.
Same thing with some mid-cycle things that we'll do in the Gulf of Mexico that have not gone into detail on this call.
But just simply they are the types of things that will increase our oil production in the intermediate cycle that are quite attractive to us.
They're the right thing to spend capital on because of the rate of returns that will be achieved.
So when we think about being in that $2.7 billion range with maintaining the volumes you should anticipate that we don't believe natural gas production will increase over the second-half of the year but rather it will continue to decrease and that we hope to offset that with attractive oil margins and oil production.
That's great.
Thank you.
Helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin of Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Two quick ones Bob for Kronos were you basically saying you found C3s and C5s with the gas? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No.
In the upper objective we found C1s.
But the chromatograph and the geochemical analysis says good indirect evidence that it is derived from thermogenic – liquid thermogenic fluids.
And that – then that's been biodegraded and it's in that temperature window that would allow for biodegradation very very similar to what we saw in all of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico in the shallow Miocene gas discoveries.
Good.
Thanks.
One question on the Wattenberg not trying to beat a dead horse in terms of the incremental DUCs.
Is the issue really value or GTP infrastructure or a combination of both because obviously if you have lower line pressures you get more volume output.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Honestly and I don't think you're going to be surprised by my answer.
It's all driven by value.
I think what we did with Western Gas and the infrastructure that we have put in place the additional infrastructure that we make reference in the Ops Report coming on line from a takeaway capability and capacity.
I couldn't be more pleased with the way in which our midstream operations have handled that.
I think that will be a pretty good precursor John for how we anticipate the Delaware to play out as well.
And I think the capital that we will continue to invest behind system as the equity should bode well as we think about Western Gas and Anadarko and the years ahead.
I think in addition just simply we don't anticipate whether it's in the DJ or in the Delaware to get into a situation where we're going to be capacity constrained around facilities that we operate.
The amount of oil that ultimately gets produced out of the Delaware.
I'll just say the midstream industry in general is going to have to find some relief for the oil that needs to move into the Gulf Coast and I think there's plenty of pipelines that have been proposed so far so that one doesn't worry me but as it relates to the midstream capabilities that we have I think we've been ahead of the curve both in the DJ and are ahead of the curve again in the Delaware.
Thanks Al.
I've got one other comment on there John.
When you look at the first half of the year by far it was that $180 million of compressions impacting it but we'll see the benefit for the rest of the year.
The one thing we didn't mention is we stood up Lancaster II as well that gives us another 300 million of processing capacity and so the real point there is that's our second Lancaster plant that's up.
We got 600 million of capacity now in processing and so the infrastructure is staying ahead of us out there so although we're drilling at a little bit faster pace than we anticipated because of the synergies we don't feel that we're going to be restricted there.
And so when we decide to put that money to work against the completions we'll have the ability to raise those volumes pretty quickly.
Great.
Thanks.
That's what I wanted to hear.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Lear of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
It's Ed Westlake.
I hope you can hear me.
Can you hear me? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning Ed.
Great.
Okay.
Good morning.
So just glad to see you putting some rigs to work in the Delaware.
I mean obviously a lot of people think that's a huge prolific and large play and you were very clear about what you're doing at the moment.
But what are the key gating factors for you to really accelerate in the Delaware aside from the commodity price? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's just simply a matter of Darrell's got a lot of area there that he's still trying to figure out the areal extent of the play and so there is a little bit of understanding what we have in the way of total volumes and the recoverability of those volumes we've done a little beta testing with how we would anticipate a development plan to work but I think as you can probably appreciate this is not a blanket shale it's not a blanket reservoir.
And so areas of it will actually perform a little bit differently than others and so we're in the data collection mode and not all of it in the near-term will go into that manufacturing or development mode.
Darrell please add to that.
Yeah.
Unlike Wattenberg you got to remember you don't have near the infrastructure out in Delaware as you do – that we enjoy there in Wattenberg.
Although picking up that midstream component last year was significant but there's still a lot of pipe to get out.
We put the beta plan on this year that's going to help but we still have a lot of infrastructure to put in place.
And so we expect our volumes to continue to go up.
Like I said we're moving the rig in there.
We're likely to move yet a second additional rig this year.
But we still have a lot to learn on the different zones if you will and over the 230 000 net acres that we have but I wouldn't expect us to get into a pad drilling mode anytime yet this year because there's just so much infrastructure yet and so much to learn before we really go down that path.
So I would look closer to 2016 sometime before we start getting into that mode.
I like the beta testing.
That's a technology term and obviously there's a lot of technology in this industry.
But – and this may be a longshot would you be able to at this point as you think about your beta test development plan talk about where you think the D&amp;C costs could get down to and your sort of EURs and potential to (54:33) oil or is it too early I mean we see a lot of results across the industry so we can make up our own minds but I'd just be intrigued as to where your head was at for some of those key metrics.
I would say it's early for sure we looked at this last year we dropped cost about $1 million per well on the drilling and completion side.
So there's no doubt in my mind that we've got a learning curve yet we're going down and we'll get those costs down further than that.
If you look at what we continue to do at Wattenberg we've been there a long time and we continue to get those costs down.
So I think it's going to be an evolution.
As we learn what works best out here.
So I think you could anticipate not only ourselves but industry will get better at drilling and completing wells out there.
So I'm pretty encouraged what the cost structure could look like out there.
And to be provocative and switch topics on the learning curve some folks say the offshore is dead.
I mean I have my own view you have yours you've laid them out pretty clearly.
But how low do you think you could lower the breakevens on some of these larger discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico and hopefully Cote d'Ivoire and Colombia to make these competitive with what's going on in say strip pricing today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me try if I can to answer part of this along with Jim.
I mean part of this has to do with whether or not we are able to tie back to existing infrastructure.
If we are able to do that that helps a lot.
Or if we're able to do what we did with Lucius and Heidelberg and that's design one and build two and reduce costs there substantially that helps again.
I think you've seen us time and again tie back to existing infrastructure and that's sort of a opportunity that few people have.
Not saying that we're completely unique in that regard but there's not that many of us that have infrastructure to tie back into.
Now if you're talking about drilling something that has no infrastructure obviously it's got to have a bigger EUR therefore the breakeven is a little bit different and that's very different in the Gulf of Mexico than it would be in West Africa because basically you're drilling deeper wells in a different environment and we see that in some other places.
So maybe with that that's a good handoff for me to let Jim give you a little more color around that.
International &amp; Deepwater Operations</span></strong> Yeah.
I think Al covered it pretty well with the – what I would add to that would be we aren't seeing the price response as dramatic in the deepwater large or mega project space as what we're obviously seeing in our onshore business.
We are however seeing some price retractions obviously the deepwater rig fleets pricing has dropped.
So that's allowing us to carve back some savings.
But what we're really looking at is what is the subsea infrastructure manufacturing and then the large offshore facility costs and those are seeing some reductions.
And so we're incorporating those into our field development plans.
What we're very fortunate with is that Bob Daniel's exploration group has done a great job in identifying high-quality developments.
And so with a combination of those resources and with some of the price recoveries we're seeing and I think coupled with our project management oversight and approaching some of these developments in a minimalistic approach keeping the costs down and keeping them simple we're able to see some pretty good economics going forward.
Okay that's very clear.
Probably a topic for a whole call.
But thanks very much.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
(56:09).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Now David don't even go there just go ahead.
Just thinking about additional sources of cash inflows I was curious about your thoughts on the size of the TEU market per year after the success you had in the second quarter? Look David it remains to be seen.
Obviously we had some really good success with the initial issuance; we ended up doing a transaction that was a lot of interest and an upside that we were very pleased with.
As that security matures and gets a little more reputation amongst that buyer community we expect that they will like what they see and that we're going to be able to access it again.
The other dynamic around the West – WGP rather monetization is that the more liquidity that's out there in these securities be the TEUs or WGP itself then the relative larger size transaction is going to be – you're going to be able to accomplish relative to the float that's out there.
So we try not to predict too aggressively but it's fair to say that we have some really high expectations for being able to access that market in the future because the transaction really hits the mark on those – on what those investors desire.
From our standpoint it's just – it's – we'll still do secondary offerings of WGP from time to time.
We'll access the TEU market and it just gives us a broader market to sell into since our position is so substantial and it's clearly our desire to continue to access the capital markets through those securities in the future.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David let me just add real quickly also.
That I made this comment and I just think it's worth reiterating.
We see Western Gas and our monetization efforts there as the source of capital that will fund what we do with the equity portion of the development in Mozambique.
So we're not in a need to quickly liquidate Western Gas in order to achieve that but that is our source of capital and that will then in turn be the use of the capital.
We think that's extremely important to highlight simply because we're not looking at cash flow from operations to fund investments in Mozambique; rather that will fund totally the types of E&amp;P activities that you normally would traditionally think of.
And therefore getting into the market with these TEUs coming up with a structure that had been previously used with C-Corps but not used with MLPs and frankly Bob and his staff and Mike Pearl in particular came up with something introduced it to a market that hadn't been seen before and we're really pleased with what was there.
I just think this continues to be important for us to highlight that we've had great success with Western Gas we continue to expect Western Gas to play an important role in which we think of as Anadarko and its midstream integration with its upstream but as we think about the GP The Western Gas that will continue to be the source of funding in the near-term for how we will make the equity investments in the development of Mozambique.
Thanks guys.
And then just cash margin wise you all have deferred some workovers that had operating cost savings in second quarter and your guidance comes back up.
Can you talk regionally of how those costs came down and then have the ability to sustain that better margin just from the operating cost standpoint? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> David some of the workover numbers that were in are really time dependent in the Gulf of Mexico and when we decide to position a rig.
So I think our costs are going to be in line with what our projections are and depending on what happens with well flow in response for instance in I Hub we lost one of the key gas producing wells and we brought in a rig and shifted a sleeve and recompleted uphole.
So that was an unforeseen workover that we brought in.
The well was recovered and we anticipate good flow rates from that well and are in the process of testing it right now.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then kind of sustainability on the – I want to talk a little bit about NGL pricing and then kind of sustainability on the decision to process or reject and again just thinking about cash margins in context of your NGL pricing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as you can imagine we think about NGL prices a lot.
I'm going to have Scott Moore who runs marketing for us address that but NGL volatility this year may have exceeded volatility in any other hydrocarbon and it's certainly been something that we've had to be mindful of.
Hi.
This is Scott I would also add that we have rejected about 13 million barrels worth of NGL this year but the key point for us is really controlling the value chain and it lets us get a relatively stronger realization than we otherwise would fundamentals remain challenging and we exercise the option volume in the portfolio as best we can.
So no expectation of a price recovery or change in volatility I guess is what I should read in that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that's fair David.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we're going to – I'm going to mirror or parrot in a lot of comments.
I mean most people see propane obviously heading into heating season improving.
So that portion of the value chain certainly looks like it's got some fundamentals but if you were just looking at ethane I can't give you a good pretty picture on ethane.
Yeah.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Mike Scialla of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning.
Darrell you talked about drilling most of the new wells in Wattenberg in five days which would seem to suggest maybe that further efficiency gains there are kind of limited.
Given that could you talk about the decision to drill primarily short laterals there I think about 70% of this year's program are actually short laterals.
It seemed to me that maybe long laterals are the next step change in efficiency there? Yeah.
A lot of that really had to do with the land position but as we cored up with Noble I think what you can expect to see is the mid laterals.
Those are what we're finding to probably be the sweet spot not that we haven't drilled some longs we have but we've tended to find ourselves getting into some drilling issues.
And so from an economic perspective and trouble time we really think the sweet spot is going to be those mid-laterals.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then sticking with Wattenberg any idea of when you'll be able to talk more about spacing there? I think you're guiding to kind of 12 wells per section on average.
I think you've tested tighter than that.
Any more you can say on that at this point? Well for the most part we're 12 wells to 16 wells per section but again we got a lot of acreage and so not all acreage is equal and we do have a lot of tests going on up as high as 32 wells per section.
And so we're still playing around with that a little bit.
But again that's going to be sort of area specific across such a big acreage holding.
And – but we're still seeing encouraging results.
We think we can get a little bit tighter spacing but time will tell verdict is out on that just a little bit.
We're working between both Codell and Niobrara as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just last one for me.
Any thoughts on the – some folks are testing the upper Eagle Ford; I think you guys did a little bit of work there but any thoughts on that? Yeah we're testing that as well.
We're actually somewhat encouraged.
We've drilled almost two dozen wells of which we've just completed a few and put them online.
We've got others to put online and so we're looking at testing what we call both the upper and sort of a middle Eagle Ford if you will there is a transition zone in there.
And so it's too early to tell any results right now.
But I'd tell you we're pretty encouraged by it.
We have drilled one Buda well but we're probably not as infatuated with Buda as we are with both the upper and middle Eagle Ford that you'll continue to hear more information as we get these things tested.
But we are like I said we probably drilled 24 of those already.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's all from me.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bob Christensen of Imperial.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Did I hear Bob that you are going to return to Kronos and drill an offset well next year? Did I mistake that? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Bob this – yeah Bob.
That's our plan right now.
We're still trying to figure out our total drill schedule but the rig that's in Colombia now is going to drill – finish Kronos go over to Calasu then it's going across to West Africa to Cote d'Ivoire and do a DST there and then we're looking at okay what's the plan for next year and high on that list would be a Kronos appraisal well.
Wow that's very encouraging.
Has any high impact exploration left the schedule much like we saw with Conoco has anything been just severed from your schedule or thoughts of ideas here that was on the bubble? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No.
I think there has been a little bit of sliding.
Our Kenya Mlima well was originally on the schedule for 2015 and that's really all around rig timing nothing to do with the prospect itself.
But other than that no we've continued our program we have looked for partners on some things and have been successful in that.
Again we talk about what our Anadarko capital is versus what our total capital spend is and we bring in partners on a promoted basis to some of our opportunities and it goes back to kind of what Jim said if you got quality opportunities there's still a market out there for them.
And just a final if I may I see what's happening with all the things currently in the Gulf of Mexico and in your Ops Report.
But what's sort of next in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico beyond Shenandoah beyond the appraisal of Yeti.
What's in line in the next six months nine months? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah we've got a couple of other prospects that are on the drill schedule.
I think Opal is one that is a new play type kind of a – I wouldn't say it's a frontier basin but it's a frontier play within that basin.
We've got another one called Haleakala that we're moving forward.
I mentioned the Phobos appraisal.
So those types of things.
We've got deep inventory we're maturing things as we go.
And then we're learning also from the wells we drill and rolling that back in to see what other opportunities it may lead to.
And Opal is the big stratigraphic test if I recollect? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> That's correct.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I think with that we have gone through all the folks in the queue for questions.
And I'd just like to wrap up by saying a couple of things.
One you can anticipate that this management team will continue to watch what oil production in the U.S.
does.
The last time we were on this call we were at about 9.4 million barrels a day.
I think as most of you know we're at 9.7 million barrels today.
That was one of the reasons we were being very cautious last quarter.
We did not see the drop off occurring in the second quarter.
At some point the lack of capital being deployed into assets in the U.S.
will cause 9.7 million to decline.
I think like others we'll continue to watch that in terms of understanding how to deploy capital as simple as that.
I mean we think one of the most important things we do as a management team is make good capital calls and I think historically we've done a pretty good job of that.
We will be driven as I mentioned earlier by attractive rates of return.
So when we deploy capital we're deploying it in places we believe gives us a very attractive rate of return.
You can also expect that we will and continue to be if not the most active manager of our portfolio one of the most.
I can't imagine in the last six or seven years anybody that's more actively managed their portfolio than we've been.
I think if you think about growth as I made the comment we will have growth when economics warrant.
And we will give you some view of that when we start to see it.
And lastly we will continue to do the things that we did really well historically particularly when you think back to the 2008 or 2009 period where we were not going through one of the more robust periods in our industry.
We committed significant dollars to exploration and we're doing that again because we like the optionality that comes with exploration and I'll reiterate we're very excited about the successes we've had in the quarter and in particular what we're seeing in offshore Colombia.
So with that – we all appreciate each of you being on the call today.
We cannot say thank you enough for the support we get from a number of our investors and we look forward to seeing you in the coming weeks and months.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.