Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Anadarko Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please also note today's event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Colglazier.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Thank you Rocco.
Good morning everyone.
We're glad you could join us today for Anadarko's third quarter 2015 conference call.
I'd like to remind you that today's presentation does include forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions.
However a number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to yesterday's earnings release.
Additionally we have provided additional detail in our Quarterly Ops Report on our website.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Al Walker and we'll open the lines in a few minutes for Q&amp;A with Al and our executive team following his remarks.
Al? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks John.
And good morning.
As we've said throughout the year in this period of lower commodity prices our focus is on building and preserving value rather than on growth.
And we're accomplishing what we set out to do.
I can't say enough about the efforts of our employees this year the tremendous operational successes they've achieved and how these actions have made Anadarko a better company.
We're enhancing our wellhead margins by reducing costs and improving operating efficiencies.
We've increased oil sales volumes by more than 42 000 barrels per day to-date over 2014 on a divestiture-adjusted basis and continue to improve our liquids product mix.
In addition to improving our cost structure by working with our service providers and vendors we're also making permanent process enhancements and optimizing our operations in a manner that is sustainable over the longer term.
Along these lines I want to highlight a couple of assets that really illustrate how we are sustaining our business and improving it every day.
If you remember last quarter we discussed the exceptional efficiency gains achieved in the Wattenberg field by doubling the number of wells per rig line versus the prior year.
Believe it or not we're safely making further improvements sequentially by reducing cycle times during the quarter by almost 20% and cost per foot by almost 15%.
Since last year our organization has further reduced our costs by nearly $70 per foot drilled on each well.
That's a savings of almost of $1 million per well as a result of our enhanced wellbore design.
Plus because of the work our company has done the Delaware Basin is gaining ground on the success we enjoy in the Wattenberg field as one of most attractive and economic plays in our onshore portfolio and one of the best in our industry.
Even though we're not choosing to chase growth at this time on our 650 000 gross acre position the work we're doing is laying the foundation for the future.
At our Wolfcamp oil play this year alone we've reduced our per well costs by $4 million to $7.5 million with direct line of sight to another $1.5 million to as much as $2 million per well in expected savings at a time we choose to pursue growth and migrate towards pad drilling across the field.
For the past several years we've focused on being financially disciplined.
And we entered 2015 with a mindset of maintaining the strength of our balance sheet by aligning capital investments with anticipated cash inflows.
This approach has served our stakeholders exceptionally well in the current environment.
The delta between our capital investments and discretionary cash flow totals $730 million which includes $405 million of WES capital.
So we've covered the difference several times over by monetizing nearly $2 billion of assets this year.
In addition we're continuing to demonstrate our commitment to financial discipline by lowering the high end of our 2015 capital guidance by an additional $100 million as well as lowering our LOE guidance.
At this time like many companies we're evaluating 2016.
At Anadarko our program will be similar to our mindset in 2015 and that's investing within our cash inflows.
This approach is expected to result in lower CapEx and sales volumes that are relatively flat year-over-year on a divestiture-adjusted basis.
Given the challenging supply and demand fundamentals and continued uncertainty around sustainably higher oil prices you can expect us to see continued investment in higher-percentage longer-cycle opportunities such as exploration where we achieved some very encouraging early results offshore Colombia as well as success delineating our activities at Shenandoah and advancing our mega projects like Heidelberg where we've cleared all the major construction and installation hurdles and are now on an accelerated timeline for first oil.
Consistent with our 2015 approach to capital allocation we'll continue to invest fewer dollars in short-cycle U.S.
onshore activities.
This approach reflects our conviction that growth will not be rewarded in this environment and focusing on preserving and building value is more appropriate at this time.
Looking ahead we'll remain focused on creating value by enhancing our wellhead margins and moderating our base decline improving cost efficiencies maintaining an active exploration program and pursuing ongoing monetizations like we have done in prior years.
The value we are creating today will give us the foundation for future success.
And when we see value in pursuing growth we'll be prepared to accelerate activity.
So with that why don't we open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Let me start off just following up on your evolving thoughts on the 2016 budget given the commodity price deterioration and the deterioration or the lack of access in the MLP space since the last call.
Can you provide color on commodity pricing scenarios? Is there a maximum outspend? And how does that relate to or your thoughts on forward asset sales and accessing the MLP markets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start by just saying we don't have any better crystal ball than anybody else on what prices are going to be in 2016 and 2017.
And our approach is plan for the worst and hope for the best.
Consequently we have a fairly low expectation not much different than the forward curve maybe even a little more pessimistic than that in terms of how we might plan for capital.
As it relates to asset sales I think going back to January of this year when we talked about not pursuing growth maybe a little bit earlier than most and that we would continue to execute a plan that included portfolio management and the sale of assets we still believe that will be something we'll do in 2016.
And I think the comments that we continue to make around wanting to be cash neutral with our CapEx will hold the day.
I think we've done a pretty darn good job of that since 2007 and I can't see 2016 being a different page in our playbook.
So a similar size on an asset disposal program going forward is your thought within that living within cash flow inclusive of asset sales? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm making the comment that we'll live within cash.
And so if you look at this year and you think about my prepared comments and how I highlighted the fact that this year we've exceeded what we believe to be our cash inflows with outflows that speaks to the fact that we do think it's very important to make sure that we're financially disciplined and that we continue to look for opportunities to sell assets where we think they're either non-core or the market sees a value in them greater than we do.
I think we've done a pretty darn good job of that since 2007 so it's not just all of a sudden we're waking up and trying to do that in 2016.
Great that makes sense.
And a second question if I could.
Any guidance on 2016 maintenance CapEx or spend to stay flat which is likely lower due to efficiencies drawdowns as well as your offshore startups? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the number that we've been using recently it's probably still an appropriate number and that's about $2.7 billion in terms of that maintenance number you're looking for and that is still a function of lots of things that are assumptions in that including commodity prices and service costs.
So I would call that a good placeholder number but I don't think there's a lot of precision around it and I'm not sure anybody could give you a lot of precision at any time when there's as much volatility in the market as there is.
That's fair.
Congrats on the Shenandoah appraisal.
Can you discuss how the results compare to pre-drill expectations or comments on reservoir quality and then go-forward plans? I'll leave it at that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Evan for the congratulations.
Team did a really good job on that and we're real pleased with it.
We got 622 feet of pay what we ended up doing was we tested up to the north with trying to find out where the basin edge was and the first well established where the basin edge was.
Then we came in and drilled to the south with a sidetrack and got the 622 feet of pay.
It was all oil.
We encountered no water in that.
The reservoir quality in the initial assessment looks pretty – well it looks comparable to everything else we found out there so very good reservoir quality.
We're still in the early stages of that evaluation.
We're in the process of getting a core so we just kicked off and we're going to do a bypass core just right next to this well and that's to establish the reservoir quality in the oil column which will roll directly into our development planning.
So it's very important to get that core and we're just in the process of it.
That's going to give us a much better handle on all the fluid properties all the reservoir properties but we pushed the lowest known oil down about 400 feet.
As I mentioned we didn't establish an oil-water contact here so that tells us there's more down below us.
And we're looking at what the forward plan is after this bypass core as to what else we're going to need to turn over to the planning team for the development planning.
But we're very encouraged with what we saw and it was all well within the range of expectation of what we had put out there.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Doug.
This guy got your last name right.
Yeah yeah.
I thought you're going to comment on my voice I sound a little husky this morning.
So guys on the capital allocation for next year so I get the living within cash flow.
But given the very strong performance you seem to be having in the Delaware how should we think about how you're allocating capital to your core plays? And could you maybe just touch on where you're not spending capital what the implications are for potentially there's a lot of asset sales that are likely to deliver this quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Doug as you can appreciate we like all of our companies in our sector right now are trying to decide how we want to allocate capital next year looking into very at best fuzzy picture of what that's going to look like.
I think as you think about our company our two principal onshore assets in the DJ Basin and the Delaware Basin is where a majority if not almost all of our onshore capital will be spent.
If you think about how we allocate capital between short intermediate and long probably somewhere around the 40% allocation level will go into short and a large percentage of that 40% will go into those two asset plays as a percentage of whatever the budget turns out to be.
To Evan's point would it be fair to think about asset monetizations as basically funding the non-productive capital.
Is that – as one of the levers you have? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It could.
I think asset sales in any given year for us and certainly 2015's a good example.
I'm not sure we had a lot of people that agreed with us back in January when we made the comments we made then about not pursuing growth and continue to be active with portfolio management and that we would sell properties there in an environment that looked pretty challenging and yet we did.
So I think as we think about how we want to recycle capital and reinvest it there will be assets that we look at that we would prefer to take and recycle that capital into things that have better trajectory around growth and returns.
Okay.
Thank you Al.
Just two quick follow-ups if I may.
I guess the first one is I think yourself and Bob perhaps (14:50) around.
Bob and yourself put a cap amongst the pigeons a little bit earlier this year by alluding to Anadarko possibly looking at acquisitions.
I wonder if you could give us your thoughts on that.
And my final one is on Paon just a comment on those additional blocks you got.
Does that say anything about where you think the extent of the Paon discovery moves next given that you added those two blocks in Côte d'Ivoire? I'll leave you there.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Well hope you feel better.
You do sound like you're just not 100%.
And I'll ask Bob Daniels if he would address your Paon question.
On the M&amp;A I'll stay with the comment that we always make and that is our objective every day is to be a better company not necessarily a bigger company.
But if in an effort to get better we have situations that would cause us to get bigger we'll certainly evaluate those.
And the areas onshore that we have I made comments just here a few minutes ago about where we want to see ourselves spending our capital whether it's cash or cash flow.
I think those are the areas of asset acquisitions that we would focus on.
And Bob if you want hit on Paon.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Doug on Paon we picked up one block not two.
We ended up with the CI-527 block is a new block and that fit in between the CI-103 where Paon is located and the CI-528 CI-529 blocks we already had acquired.
And so we have a contiguous four block area out there.
The reason we picked up CI-527 block was two-fold.
One it looked like there was a potential that the Paon accumulation could spill into CI-527 not in a huge way but we certainly didn't want to have somebody else get into our business there.
And then we shot a 3D that covered the entire area earlier and CI-527 was part of that 3D and when we looked at the prospectivity CI-528 CI-529 and then the new CI-527 we could see that that also came up onto the new block.
And so we went to the government.
We were able to negotiate for CI-527 and put that into the portfolio.
It makes for a better position out there a stronger position that we control.
And so we have both the Paon appraisal work that's going to go on as soon as we're done in Colombia.
And then we have exploratory drilling that we're planning in the three exploratory blocks CI-527 CI-528 CI-529 probably starting next year.
We'll see how that all ends up with the budget issues.
But right now that's the plan.
We like the area out there.
The Paon is – we're going to learn a lot from the DST that we're going to do out there with the No.
5 well.
And then we'll be looking at getting some exploratory wells drilled.
All right.
Bob just a quick follow-up.
The 90% working interest I'm assuming that's not your long-term plan.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> No we've got 90% working interest in the three exploratory blocks and we just opened a data room.
We're waiting for the CI-527 block to be finalized so that we could then put the whole package together.
So those'll be all put together as a package.
Great stuff.
Thanks very much everybody.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Brian.
Can you talk to how your backlog of drilled and uncompleted wells in the oily plays as well as the curtailed volumes in the gassy plays play into your capital allocation for 2016? Should we expect these to be deployed to help you improve cash flow without drilling or are there some minimum drilling requirements to maintain efficiencies where you would wait until prices improve more dramatically before bringing that backlog on? Yeah Brian.
This is Darrell.
If you look at what we're calling our IDUCs today the intentionally deferred uncompleted wells we got a lot of flexibility around that.
To-date we've got about 200 of these largely in Wattenberg but really in our big three assets if you will is where they all reside.
And I think you can look at that as flexibility as we go into 2016.
We obviously have the option to stand up completion rigs here and our completion crews here in the fourth quarter.
But with commodity being what it is I'm not sure that's going to be our best move forward.
But I think if you look at 2016 for sure as we look to pull back capital these are going to be very efficient opportunities for us to maintain our volumes while spending less capital.
So I think you can look at it as a huge lever for our 2016 program.
That's great.
Thanks.
And my follow-up is on the offshore.
Can you characterize the cost structure you see now for development projects those that as you think about the rates of return from a Shenandoah I know that's still well in the future but also a Mozambique what oil or LNG price do you need now versus say a year ago? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> We're seeing cost reductions across the board offshore.
Obviously the ultra-deepwater drillship market has come down significantly.
We're also seeing a lot of the services supported on the rig side as well wireline pumping services mud and cementing operations.
That being said though they probably haven't approached the commodity price reduction so we're having to when we look at our offshore developments look at larger more prolific reservoirs as Shenandoah is.
It has a very high oil column and we'll be testing deliverability of these oil columns to see what type of flow rates we have.
So we aren't going to be able to offset the commodity prices completely but what we'll look at are higher flow rate completions and try to work the cost structure down on the offshore marine development systems as well.
We brought in new six generation rigs and the initial results on those wells were very very encouraging as far as reducing our cycle time to drill.
So we're seeing some costs improvements that just not so much equate to service reductions but efficiencies in drill times.
Some of our recent wells in Heidelberg have hit record costs for us of less than $100 million to drill.
That's not the completion cost but drill cost.
That's great.
That's helpful.
Any Mozambique update as part of that? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Well the LNG markets are affected as the oil markets as well.
I would say this: As the Mozambique project progresses we're in the market with procurement regarding the subsea equipment the infrastructure the offshore type order lay vessels to put everything in place for the offshore development.
And then the onshore development for liquefaction we've already gone to FEED tender.
And those costs are coming in better than the original costs we had primarily due to the competition in the marketplace right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Brian this is Al.
I know you very likely know this and so I don't mean to repeat something I know you're well aware of but just in case others are not.
We believe that our cost of providing gas into a market there if we're not the lowest-cost producer we're certainly one of the lowest-cost producers in the world in how we bring that Mozambique LNG into the market at the back end of this decade.
And I think that gives us a tremendous advantage in terms of how this project will move forward and when we've been most recently in front of the utilities in Japan why they see this as a very attractive place for off-take agreements in a market that's pretty crowded today.
They just see the potential for multiple trains beyond the first two and recognize the benefit of being a foundational buyer.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Al you talked a little bit about M&amp;A.
But can you talk about just the current bid-ask spread? I think it was a year ago when you came out and said it's a seller's market.
Can you talk about how that's changed over the last three months if you're seeing any movement there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Bob Gwin and I can tackle that one with you.
I'll give you my thoughts and he can give you his and if he disagrees with me he can do that too.
I think like most people we still see this extraordinarily large amount of private equity that's been raised.
And most people seem to gravitate around $100 billion as the number that's been raised and prepared to be committed to the sector over the next couple of years for investment if the right opportunities present themselves.
So unlike the public markets where you have a little bit different dynamic at work where we see ourselves today trying to bid on properties in markets where we have interest we are being pretty consistently outbid.
And most oftentimes we're being outbid by private equity-backed management teams.
And so I'm not sure I'd call that a seller's market quite like I did previously but I would say it's a healthy bid-ask in terms of exactly what's happening with properties when they come into the market and the receptivity they're getting.
Yeah David.
This is Bob.
I agree with Al.
It's pretty clear that there are a number of management teams the number that I've heard most recently is maybe as many as 95 of them out there that have private equity backing that haven't deployed capital yet in the market.
And the types of assets that we've been selling both earlier this year the three EOR East Texas and CBM that we've announced we're in a size range that's a sweet spot for those types of buyers.
And so I agree with Al.
It's not the seller's market that it was earlier this year where we saw that on things we bid on we might be getting outbid to the tune of 2x and had had substantial success selling into it.
But we believe that there's still a supply and demand fundamental around these assets that in 2016 for the right assets and the ones that we're looking at that likely wouldn't receive funding in our portfolio over the next several years but still have really nice return characteristics associated with them.
We feel like it's going to be solid enough to be able to execute a program and it's the reason it's part of our planning going into 2016.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Al let me go a little philosophical on you.
I hear what you're saying about returns.
And I know in theory that's the right thing to do for a company and I know that's what the market should reward.
But as you know over your career growth has been rewarded rather than returns.
I know you've got to do what's right for Anadarko but I'm just trying to balance those two in my head if I start thinking about – 2015's obviously done.
Let's just look out to 2017 2018.
How do you think about that? Because calling for a change in shareholder behaviors seems to be a difficult thing to do.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's a fair question and a fair comment.
And I'd say historically the observation has a lot of accuracy.
My early read on say the first nine or so months of this year is we've seen the buy side reward capital efficiency probably better than they historically have.
As we move into potentially a longer period of lower prices I think efficiency will still be something that gets rewarded and capital allocation around that efficiency will as well.
So I think as you look at companies like ourselves and we're not unique but those companies that have good wellhead margins that are being able to improve those margins through the cost efficiencies like we've been talking about this morning that are on top of that good allocators of capital I do believe in the I'll call it the intermediate term that we probably will see the market the buy side reward companies that can achieve that.
And if you go back to the company it was created out of three companies in 2006.
And since 2007 I think this company and this management organization has done a really good job of allocating capital.
And it's one of the things that while we've had anything but a stable market to sell into or have had anything but a stable situation with respect to how we had to manage through two very difficult situations with Tronox and Macondo the allocation of capital became I really believe one of the things that allowed us to get through that when you coupled it with what the employees were able to achieve with all of the allocation and decision-making and being able to move capital around and doing things in the field efficiently.
So David I do believe we're probably entering into a period that maybe is a little different than the historical norm.
And I think we saw a little bit of that in 2008 and 2009.
But if you go back a couple more downcycles and look at it your comment's fair.
It's typically been a market that rewards growth.
And even in a period where you don't have wellhead margins growth seems to be the mantra.
I'm not seeing as much of that personally today.
I'd be interested to know if Bob who works hand-in-glove with the capital markets as much as anybody in our organization if you see it any different.
I don't see it differently in the current environment.
You asked I think as far out David as say 2018.
And one of the things that we're focused on with capital allocation and the reason we're focused in as Al mentioned earlier in the onshore the Wattenberg and the Delaware is that these are assets that have tremendous intrinsic growth potential.
And so we remain in a position where we could dial up the rig count and dial up the completions fairly quickly.
And even for a company our size we feel we'd have the ability to deliver material growth combining that type of onshore growth with the mega projects that we're bringing on in 2016 and on the back side of that Mozambique.
So it's not a matter of we're ignoring growth.
We're remaining ready for growth.
We just think that the better allocation of capital today is to focus on building that kind of longer term value and not accelerating growth selling your best assets into a relatively lower margin environment.
Everybody's going to drill.
Onshore in the U.S.
everybody's going to drill their Tier 1.
They're going to focus on producing that Tier 1 and then they're going to redeploy the capital into their next best assets.
And frankly that's not the way to maximize in our opinion that's not the way to maximize value unless your shareholders are really telling you that growth matters more than value and what we've heard and what we continue to believe in is that value preservation on the onshore and value building in the other parts of our portfolio to be positioned for a more constructive commodity price environment is the right way to approach it today.
Okay.
Yeah thanks for the thorough answer.
I'll keep it at two.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from Bob Brackett of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
A question on the divestitures.
How do you think about the minimum price you'd take for an asset? Is it strip pricing is it what you're carrying the asset at? How do you think through that? There's no real fundamental rule.
Obviously we have a pretty good view of what we think the asset is worth at a variety of different price environments.
And at some of those price environments some of these assets theoretically could get funded in the future if the capital budget materially expands.
But you know it when you see it when you see a bid that you start to look at what pro forward (31:08) price expectations you'd need to achieve in order to have it attract capital.
It makes it pretty straightforward to decide that it's better to go ahead and sell it today.
And obviously you know that the tax implications matter and whether or not we've got somewhere to go redeploy that capital matters.
Where it's not selling assets for the sake of selling them but look at what we did this year with EOR and dry gas in East Texas.
EOR that hadn't free cash flowed for us in a number of years dry gas in East Texas where we hadn't run a rig in a number of years and then coal bed methane which really requires a materially higher gas price to warrant capital in our portfolio.
Selling those assets and redeploying in intermediate and long cycle assets that build our inventory and our optionality and our growth for future to us is a clear positive trade.
And so with those types of assets we weren't necessarily trying to achieve absolute top dollar.
We were trying to achieve something we felt was worth more in the portfolio and helped us to increase kind of our NAV of the company by making that trade of divesting today and reinvesting in the future.
So it's multidimensional.
It's asset specific and it's use of proceeds around the assets that on an after-tax basis we receive.
Great.
Thanks for that.
Quick follow-up on Latin America two thoughts there.
One any color on Colombia? The other you had an offset operator in Guyana have a pretty sizable discovery.
Is there any read across to your Guyana activities? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah this is Bob.
And on the Colombia we had the Kronos well that we announced as the uphole section last quarter as a discovery and then we went on down to the downhole section.
We did encounter some hydrocarbons there non-commercial type things.
We encountered a lot more sand than what we'd seen in the shallower section.
We had good evidence of the thermogenic hydrocarbons in the lower section but we still have a lot of work to do.
I mean this is the southernmost well that we're probably going to drill in our acreage position which is 16 million acres in the deepwater.
We're drilling now 100 miles away on the same Fuerte area and then we've got the coal blocks up to the north that we're shooting seismic on.
So when you look at it we're 300 miles to 350 miles from north to south out here.
There's a huge area we have to evaluate and we need to take what we learn and the Kronos area the Calasu well what we're seeing on the seismic data and put it all together but right now we're still real excited about Colombia and look forward to drilling more wells there next year.
When you talk about Guyana you talked about the Exxon discovery offshore Guyana.
It looks to be a nice discovery.
I'd say the read-through to us is the petroleum system works out there and it works in a fairly good positive way.
Our block is located to the north and west of theirs outboard.
And the main thing that we have going on in Guyana right now is if you remember several years ago we were doing some drop core work as part of our overall commitment out there and the Venezuelan navy showed up and escorted our ship over to Venezuela.
So we're working with the government of Guyana encouraging them to work with Venezuela to get this border issue settled.
We felt like we were significantly inside the established border when this happened.
And so we're waiting to see how that all plays out and we'll watch of course what's going on at the Exxon appraisal program to see how it spills over potentially into our block.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Subash Chandra of Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Mozambique back to the point on the breakeven costs I think.
What is that number that you're forecasting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Subash I'm not aware that we've ever given that number out and largely because we don't have final numbers from our FEED contractors.
So I think that's probably a to-be-determined number for us.
I think the only comments we've provided to-date is that we believe that we can now build a two train twelve million ton per annum facility for what we originally thought was a two train 10 million ton per annum facility.
And our ability to continue to improve what will be cost associated with that development in this environment should go down.
So consequently I think those are the factors that you – it's really difficult to tell you what a breakeven is and not one that today we could even begin to estimate.
Okay okay.
We'll wait on that then.
The other thing is to interpret I guess the DUC commentary is it fair to interpret that that the DUCs the intentional DUCs have a very high chance of being completed regardless of the commodity price environment? And that it would be offset by perhaps the rig count going lower between now and yearend? So the number of wells are still in line but the DUCs just because they're sort of pre-expensed half pre-expensed or whatever get the preferential completion schedule? Subash this is Darrell.
Yeah I would look at it that way I mean as we look at it today we're pulling down some of our rig inventory now and we'll continue to do that in 2016.
And it'll be largely to the benefit of completing these DUCs.
Yeah they're not really half pre-expensed though.
The drilling cost is maybe 25% of the total well cost and with still 75% of the capital associated with the completion.
So there's not nearly as much sunk capital waiting on completion as you might otherwise expect.
And I think one of the other big benefits that people don't recognize with these DUCs if you look back at some of the savings we've achieved this year in our completions to have completed these wells earlier in the year when our cost structure was much higher would have actually hurt those economics.
We really see some benefits now in really completing these wells a year later in some cases because it's going to continue to push our cost down if you will and improve our economics on these wells.
Okay.
And the final one for me so the service companies are now pretty broadly complaining about that they're operating at sort of negative cash flows.
Do you agree with that and the takeaway being where at what price do you think the inflation kicks back in? Well you know I'm not really sure that's a question for us to be honest Subash.
You'd have to really talk to the service companies because it's not really something we monitor and track and how they operate their business and what their breakeven cash costs are we couldn't begin to estimate.
Yeah.
That's fair.
If I could just put it another way do you see any more deflation occurring? Well.
Again this is Darrell.
I will tell you we continue to see decreases in that price structure.
I won't say as significant as what we saw earlier in the year but there's still a lot of competition out there and a lot of pressure to get the cost down and so we are seeing the benefit of that we're continuing to.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Just a quick follow-up question.
You obviously had (38:50) for the DUCs going into next year but what would it take for you guys to actually reinvigorate drilling? I know it's obviously a bearish outlook at this point in time is the right way to think of it.
But what makes you change your mindset? What price level makes you feel (39:10)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Scott I'll go back to the comment I made in January.
Until we see service costs sync up to a price environment for the commodities that causes us to feel like growth can be achieved and sustained and that in turn we'll be rewarded we're not prepared to kind of estimate what that is because we don't know exactly where the service costs are going to end up.
And certainly we're no better than picking the volatility associated with oil or natural gas than anybody else.
But when you think about oil natural gas and natural gas liquids and the headwind that we as industry are finding ourselves in with respect to all three of those we're nowhere close to it today and the comment I made in January I think is still apropos.
We need to see a substantially different commodity price environment than we have today combined with a substantially different cost environment.
Now some of those costs have come in and we're starting to understand better what we think will be the right margin to go back to work in a growth environment that the investor would reward.
But we don't see anything close to that in the near term with the type of commodity outlook you can see through respective strips for how those commodities are traded.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And if you look at it as I think the industry entered into 2015 it looked like the service cost environment probably reflected a $90 oil environment.
Where do you think that is today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think when we were at $90 and call it $4 the service costs that we've seen contract to-date that created a margin at that time we haven't seen that type of service cost contraction to get us back to a $90 and $4.
If you're a successful efforts company call it EBITDAX per BOE.
And I'm not sure that we could in fact see that margin restore just through service costs alone.
It's going to take an improvement in the price per BOE whether it's gas or oil or natural gas liquids that if you went through the arithmetic I think you'd find that we're going to need to see a lot more from both of the principle commodities than we've got today and then it becomes very basin specific then transportation costs associated with getting that to the market.
So there's really not a generic answer from our perspective.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one last one on Mozambique.
You discussed a little bit about that already in the call but again coming into this year I think the idea was to sanction the project by year-end.
Where do you see that occurring now and what are the implications on the CapEx that would have been allocated in 2016 to the project? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well nothing really new has developed that's caused us any concerns.
I think we continue to believe that ultimately this process is somewhat controlled in the hands of the government.
We can do all that we can do and I think we're seeing the current administration working very hard in its first year to advance all the things contractually they need to advance.
We've been very pleased with the way in which the Nyusi administration has addressed each of the things that we've brought before them.
Seems like there's good partner alignment and while we were the first to say it was a better price environment for LNG when oil was $100 you still have some benefits here by the comments I made earlier about being a low-cost producer that I think gives us an advantage with our off-take agreements with principally East Asian buyers.
So in general it's still pretty good.
I think the benefit of what you've got with us is you've got a company as we look out into 2016 that can be even less capital intensive with respect to maintaining our sales volumes in 2016 versus 2015 and still has the capital to invest in the intermediate and long cycle things that we think creates a lot of value for our investors long term.
And I think that optionality and flexibility in our portfolio is really one of those things that we certainly think distinguishes us from others and have heard that from investors as well.
And then you just have to allocate the capital correctly between your opportunities.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin of Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thank you.
Two quick ones for me.
With the Delaware you bought some checkerboarded acreage.
How hard is it to procure it these days? And also going forward when prices normalize how quickly would it take for you to get to a pad mode? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John this is Al.
We do have a checkerboarded position as you correctly identified.
And it is not an easy land situation to manage because it's very fractured in the Delaware Basin beyond the checkerboarding that we have already.
And as we try to block-up in that area it's really a difficult thing to do.
And that's why making acquisitions where we think they're accretive and are attractive help us in that blocking approach.
And I think the type of returns we would want to see from the Delaware would need to start to approach what we've got today in the DJ in order to feel like going into a development mode created value for our shareholders.
And we're not quite there because we don't have the benefit of the mineral interest underneath the working interest in the Delaware like we do the DJ Basin.
And yet from everything we've seen and I'll ask Darrell to elaborate but from everything we're seeing we're seeing really productive wells.
That's why we took the EURs up.
We believe once we go into pad drilling we can drive down the costs further.
And I made reference to the fact that we can get another $1.5 million to $2 million per well to be able to drive down once that works.
But it's really almost the sustainability of a higher oil price than just getting to a higher oil price.
You have to believe that once you get there it's sustainable.
And these pop-ups and pop-downs that we're seeing and the volatility associated with how oil is moving around is largely what's giving us a lot of pause and hesitation.
So Darrell please? Yeah I think the only thing I'd add to that is once we can get to that more of a stable commodity price if you will the upside of Delaware just continues to get a whole lot better.
It seems like every time we do a look-back on our existing wells we're seeing additional EURs.
So we're extremely encouraged there.
We talk about approaching 1 million BOEs.
In some cases we think we're well over 1 million.
But as a whole I think the important thing is is across the entire acreage position as we've continued to drill there we're seeing the EURs move up.
So we're really encouraged.
It's still early in the life.
So we're hopeful that this will only continue to get better.
And so as we see commodity pickup we're ready to go.
I think getting into a pad drilling effort will be huge for us because we will see a lot of synergies like we have in our previous shale plays.
And so we're waiting for that day we can start standing up more rigs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John can I just add one more thing to that? As we think about the success we've had in the DJ Basin with our approach to the infrastructure there and the way in which we want to manage our midstream and evacuation risk we're doing the same thing in the Delaware.
And we probably actually have the benefit of having an even more aggressive approach to the midstream and what we're trying to attempt with the Delaware simply because these Wolfcamp benches are just really incredibly prolific at this point as we understand them better.
And I know there are a lot of companies that always feel like they've got really good assets.
But boy I'll stack up the DJ and the Delaware Basin as an asset play in this environment with anything anybody's got in their portfolio.
They are really resilient and they actually do have to Darrell's point tremendous running room when you're ready to go to growth.
Great.
Thanks.
My next one is on the deepwater.
You've accelerated Heidelberg and you're only tying in three wells.
Is this going to be the new mantra not tie in all the wells but just get enough to get cash flow up and going? Or what's the strategy there? And then lastly in the Côte d'Ivoire will you make an announcement the first quarter once you run the interference test at Paon? This is Jim.
And I'll address the discussion on Heidelberg and then let Bob talk about the exploration in Côte d'Ivoire.
In Heidelberg the timing on the wells is really due to the drilling and the completion plans we had set.
I wouldn't say that having three wells partial well completion would be our mantra going forward.
It's simply the timing.
Our project team has made incredible progress here in the last I'd say six months.
The Gulf of Mexico has had difficult Loop Currents and they were successful in placing the hull and the topsides and the commissioning work ongoing for the topsides is in process.
And as they've advanced that ahead of schedule we've pulled the start date up a few months early.
So it's just a timing issue on when the wells will be completed and then brought online across the facility.
Thanks.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah John we'll announce the results whatever quarter it's done.
We probably won't even start that process until early in the New Year or maybe very very late December.
So whether we get it done in the first quarter or the second quarter we'll be releasing it once we have that information.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks John.
And our next question comes from Charles A.
Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Al and to the rest of your team there.
If we could go back to a comment you made in your prepared comments you mentioned that you think in 2016 you foresee flat volumes versus 2015 on a divestiture-adjusted basis if I heard that correctly.
Could you decompose that a bit by product and geography? And particularly I'm thinking about one of the big pieces is the tailwind I think you're going to have from your Gulf of Mexico developments on the oil side.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yes you did reference the comment correctly.
And we do see ourselves being cash neutral to our CapEx as we go into next year are our preliminary thoughts.
Now we've not taken a plan yet to our board for approval so those are very early ideas on our part.
And you can anticipate given that we haven't run a dry rig or a rig for dry gas in over two years that our percentage of oil continue to increase in our mix.
You've seen that through the course of this year and you saw the increase year-over-year for the quarter of 24 000 barrels per day of greater oil.
And I think you should anticipate oil will continue to be a bigger percentage of our overall mix in 2016 even if the capital on a year-over-year basis is likely down unless commodity prices do something that I don't anticipate.
Got it.
And any comment on geographies? In particular it looks like U.S.
onshore oil is where we're seeing strength although I know in Algeria we had that weather delayed tanker (51:04).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think we'll probably in a position as we usually are in early March with our with our Analyst Conference to be able to give you the granularity you're looking for once we have a budget approved by our board.
Okay.
Thank you on that Al.
And then perhaps dovetailing to that the cycle times in the Wattenberg I have to say I'm not surprised that they're improving but the magnitude is a little bit surprising especially given that we're nine months into a downturn.
And I'm wondering if you could talk a bit more about what's going on there and what the prospects are for that to perhaps continue either in the Wattenberg or into other parts of your onshore portfolio.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the short answer is Darrel's really good.
I had already assumed that.
And let me give you the longer version then Charles.
But the redesign was probably the biggest thing we did out there.
And so right now we're working on a rate of penetration there in some of our non-productive time to continuously improve on what we're doing there on the drilling side.
I think the other part of that equation is early on as we changed some of this design we didn't have it going across all of our rig fleet and today we do.
And so you're seeing the benefit of that across the whole fleet out there and so that's a part of that improvement as well.
As far as going forward I think the opportunity probably rests with both our completions and even some of the facility costs that we have in front of us.
We're working on a central oil stabilizer system right now which essentially allows us to put less equipment on some of our well sites today.
So I see that there's going to be a future opportunity to get that DC&amp;E cost down in the Wattenberg.
That's helpful Darrell.
Thanks for your comments.
Okay.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could I could follow up.
You've discussed it a little bit in terms of the Permian.
But can you talk a bit about how you're managing both the resource delineation and the infrastructure build-out during this I guess we can consider over the downtime and how that will position you for acceleration when the commodity allows it? Well again this is Darrell.
Right now we're not in a development mode so we're continuously – you got a couple things going on.
We're holding acreage in some cases where the leases require it but in other cases we're still testing.
Again there's multiple benches out here although we generally talk about one bench within the Wolfcamp A but there's other benches here to be tested along with the completion styles we're using.
And so we're varying both the water and sand components here just to better understand how do you get these EURs up.
And so part of the discussion earlier on increased EURs we do think we're better understanding what completions are working out here.
And so again it's not a hodge-podge but we're going across a huge acreage position to better understand what we have so that when the commodity does turn and we go into development mode we'll probably start where a large part of our infrastructure is.
But we'll know where some of the better places are.
But as we recognize it right now really across the entire acreage we really think most of this is all Tier 1.
And so we're pretty excited about all the results we're getting in.
But to another point on the infrastructure side we continue to build that out.
Although we've slowed down some of our drilling activities we have not slowed down our build-out of the infrastructure.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
So I would assume that as the commodity turns you should have plenty of running room with few if any bottlenecks on the infrastructure side to be able to ramp materially.
Is that...
No I think that is fair.
Once things go into a pad drilling format if you will we'll likely start very near the infrastructure that's out there so that we ought to be up and running see the benefits on the production side pretty quickly.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
thanks.
And then maybe if I could do one quick follow-up and you may not have anything to add on Shenandoah but post the recent appraisal any additional thoughts on resource range there at Shenandoah? And on timing of the FID maybe it's too early to tell without seeing the core but do you have an idea whether you think you need one more appraisal well prior to FID or is this all that you'll need at this point? International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Bob Ryan.
On the resource range we're riding where we thought.
We always do a probabilistic resource range.
We're still in that range with the results of the well.
We still haven't established a water contact over here so you still have uncertainties associated with that.
As to FID and whether or not we need additional wells I think those discussions are ongoing but I think we also need to get all the data in and really incorporate that into our thinking as to okay what do we have here for sure? What do we now have uncertainties around? And what does that mean for additional activities? So it's too early to say on whether there needs to be an additional well and the FID would come after that kind of a – or the pre-development work leading to an FID is ongoing but that would come after we've got all the data that we need.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thanks a lot.
I'll leave it there.
And our next question comes from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Looking at the 2015 CapEx guidance and thinking about this next quarter the last couple quarters you've come in below the low end of guidance.
You talk about your DUC inventory that you have.
Can you help frame up where the CapEx is relative to your thoughts on DUCs at year-end and whether that's factored into the CapEx number? And likewise how that looks on the (57:27) side? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dave well we always give a risked operational profile for our objectives here.
And what we've done for the fourth quarter is we've included in our capital guidance the flexibility to add the additional completion crews to start working down the DUCs as indicated in the table in our ops report and the volumes reflect status quo.
So it's kind of the – we've covered ourselves both ways.
I think you'll be pleased with the outcome.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
So conservative in nature there.
One of the comments you made on maintenance CapEx I just want to kind of tie that up a little bit.
Keeping it kind of the same at $2.7 billion but you're seeing better performance in terms of base declines.
Looks like costs continue to come down slightly and efficiencies continue to go up.
I would suspect that would buy us that number a little lower.
Am I getting ahead of myself? Is there something else that would be keeping that flat versus the improvement we've seen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Dave.
I think you're seeing it correctly.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then just finally on the base decline part of things can you talk a bit about what the big drivers of those improvements have been and how you see that moving forward? Well you're talking about on the volume side in some of our big assets? Exactly.
Yeah I mean right now I would say there is upside in looking forward because again with the EUR improvement especially in Delaware that should just give us upside going forward and these are some of the results we're seeing now.
And so as we continue to do these look-backs hopefully we got additional upside to that.
But again remember Delaware is relatively new and we're drilling this thing across the field so we're pretty encouraged.
So I think there's going to be a lot of little things out there to help us.
So there's probably nothing I can point to specifically.
Okay.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks so much guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks thanks very much for your time.
I'll ask 10 questions.
So just two very short ones.
Spacing in the Wattenberg I know you were doing tests just an update there.
And then spacing in the Delaware.
I mean I guess it's a little early.
You've got the Wolfcamp and you've got the Bone Springs and obviously there are other sections but just maybe just a reminder of what spacing assumptions you're using today and where you see those going.
Yeah this is Darrell.
I would start with Wattenberg.
We were sort of at a – between the Codell and Niobrara we were sort of 12 wells to 14 wells per section.
Now our norm is more 16 wells.
But I can tell you we're looking at some tests this coming year from 20 wells to 30 wells per section.
And we'll see what the results there are but we're feeling pretty good that we probably from a section standpoint we think there's more to be recovered as we continue to get our well costs down.
We think there's more opportunity to increase that density.
And so we're feeling pretty good about that we'll end up adding to that as opposed to where we are today.
If you look at Delaware we're probably on 600 foot spacings based on what we know today but I continue to make the point this is early.
So the more oil we see in these sections and that we can recover that too may go – may be increase and a lot of that's going to just be driven by our drilling and completion costs.
So as we get those costs down economically we probably can afford to put more in a section if we're seeing those recoveries go up.
So it's a little earlier there but Wattenberg for sure we're seeing that density go up right now.
And then just on exploration very final question.
You've laid out a lot of work that you have to do on your existing discoveries but in terms of well caps next year maybe just talk through the main ones that still get into the program.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Yeah we haven't finalized the plans for next year but there will be several in the Gulf of Mexico.
We'll probably have well caps in Colombia and also over in Côte d'Ivoire and beyond that we're still working the planning.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Look forward to the update.
International &amp; Deepwater Exploration</span></strong> Thank you.
And thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Colglazier and the rest of the team for any final remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well this is Al.
Let me just say we all recognize that these are challenging times not just for companies but for investors and for the broader investment community.
And we really appreciate the support we're seeing from investors and appreciate the support we're seeing from analysts that follow us.
You guys do a great job.
Thank you.
I know it's difficult right now to do your job.
It's difficult to do our job.
But I'll just leave you with this.
You can anticipate that our employees will go to work every day working as hard as they can to create as much value as they can given the market conditions that we're in.
And I think what we've achieved so far this year reflects that determination and hard work.
And you have our pledge as employees at Anadarko that we will come to work every day trying to create as much value as we can during a very challenging environment.
So good.
With that hope everybody has a good day and a good week and thank you for joining us.
And thank you sir.
Today's conference has now concluded and we thank you all for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.