Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risk.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risk some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Hello and thanks for your interest in Newfield Exploration.
We appreciate you dialing in this morning.
I'm joined in Houston today by Gary Packer our Chief Operating Officer; Larry Massaro Heir Apparent for Chief Financial Officer; Terry Rathert our Chief Financial Officer for most of the last 20 years and Founder of the company.
And we'll be answering your questions at the end the call.
First we're going to go ahead and divide today's comments into 3 segments: We'll first summarize the year-to-date highlights.
You'll see Newfield is executing very well in domestic focus areas and we are on course to deliver on the 3-year plan which we initially shared with you in February; Second Larry Massaro will cover our third quarter financial results and provide some thoughts around the capital structure behind the execution of our plan; and then third Gary Packer will provide operational updates from each of our domestic focus areas.
In yesterday's release we introduced a new resource play in our own backyard in Anadarko Basin called “STACK”.
This play adds thousands of new potential drilling locations and expands our visible inventory in an area that we have a proven operational track record.
We're very excited about this significant expansion of our position in the Anadarko Basin.
So let's start with the summary of the year-to-date highlights.
On October 22 we signed an agreement to sell our Malaysian business for $898 million.
We expect this transaction will close in the first quarter of 2014 and we plan to use the proceeds to continue to accelerate our domestic liquids growth and reduce our short-term borrowings.
This transaction is the first of 2 that will ultimately divest our international businesses and transform Newfield into a North American focused resource company.
Today we are increasing our expected 2013 production for the second time this year.
Our 2013 production is now expected to exceed 48 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Domestic production will be about 40 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our total capital investments will total about $2 billion this year when we include the Anadarko Basin acquisition that we announced in August.
We're delivering operational efficiencies.
We recognized that top-tier resource companies must constantly strive for better margins higher cash flow and improved profitability.
Our Williston Basin and Eagle Ford programs have performed very well with achievement of lower cost.
In less than 2 years the SCOOP and “STACK” Plays in the Anadarko Basin are expected to go from a start-up to more than 31 000 net barrels of oil equivalent per day early in 2014 and nearly 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net by the end of next year.
We're demonstrating drilling and completion efficiencies in all of our key plays.
In addition we've expanded our drilling inventory.
Today's announcement of “STACK” play adds thousands of new perspective oil locations with the potential for strong growth and returns.
As a result we will add an 8th operated rig in the Anadarko Basin next week.
In addition we have advanced our learnings in the Central Basin of the Uinta the fewer days to depth in our recent SXL wells and strong initial production numbers.
Our Patterson Well in the Wasatch IPed at over 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross from a 3 200-foot lateral a record Newfield well in the Uinta Basin.
Our recent accomplishments have created certainty around our 3-year plan which was rolled out in February of 2013.
Today we have year 1 nearly behind us and have even greater confidence in our ability to hit our corporate level targets.
We intend to deliver on our promise of doubling liquids production from our 4-key plays by the end of 2015.
We believe that having several resource plays in which to invest is a competitive advantage and allows us to seamlessly ship learnings in capitals to the plays that provide both certainty and solid returns.
At the same time we continue to advance new plays that build visible future inventory.
Later this week we will have our annual strategy session with our Board of Directors.
The work product from this meeting will confirm our 2014 through 2016 plans.
As a group we will determine the best use of capital and fine-tune our investments for our plays to ensure we deliver on our stated production forecast and capital spending plans.
Following board approval we intend to share the details with you before year end.
Several weeks ago we announced the planned retirement in August of 2014 of our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Newfield Founder Terry Rathert.
As many of you know Terry has worn many hats at Newfield and his leadership has been instrumental in Newfield's success over the last 25 years.
His successor will be Larry Massaro.
Larry joined us about 2.5 years ago and has been leading our Corporate Planning and Strategic Efforts including our international divestiture.
I'll turn the call over to Larry to cover our third quarter financials and provide some color on our financial strategy.
Larry? Thanks Lee.
For the third quarter 2013 we earned $0.70 per diluted share excluding the impact of special items detailed in our release.
Remember that our international businesses are classified as discontinued operations and earnings from those businesses are reported on a separate line on the income statement.
Our $0.70 per share in earnings include $0.47 from continuing operations and $0.08 from discontinued operations.
Earnings from discontinued operations were lower by $0.15 per share as a result of our previously announced purchase where our outstanding preferred shares involve our Bowl High Bay [ph] assets.
This transaction was done to simplify the sale of our China business and we expect a corresponding increase on our proceeds from the sale.
Our third quarter revenues were $675 million including $189 million from the discontinued operations.
Cash flow from operations before working capital changes was $403 million.
Our volumes in the third quarter are more than 600 000 barrels equivalent above guidance with more than 1/3 of the additional production coming from our new “STACK” play.
We produced just over 12 million barrel BOE in the third quarter.
This includes 10.4 million BOE from continuing operations and 1.7 million BOE from discontinued operations.
We are on track to grow our domestic liquids more than 40% year-over-year adjusted for asset sales.
In addition to meeting our production expectations we also met or exceeded our original cost guidance.
For example our 2013 domestic LOE forecast stated on a unit of production basis is now expected to be more than 10% below the mid-point of our original guidance.
For the fourth quarter we expect production to total about 12.4 million BOE which will include about 1.9 million BOE from discontinued operations.
Let me talk for a minute on our financial structure and how the planned sales of our international businesses will be used to fund acceleration of our domestic businesses.
We expect to close the sale of our Malaysian business in the first quarter of 2014.
Proceeds will be used to pay down our credit facility and restore its full capacity of $1.4 billion.
As previously stated our forecast 2014 investments will still exceed cash flow although by a lesser amount than 2013.
We will fund the 2014 plan similarly and expect that our China sale will offset the deficit and again restore the facility later in the year.
Longer-term we will focus on improving returns and margins and driving towards free cash flow.
We will maintain our financial strength so that the featured discretionary spending can be focused on building drilling and inventory.
I'll turn the call over to Gary for the operations update.
Thank you Larry.
Our teams are executing very well in 2013.
We're building strong momentum as we enter 2014.
I'll provide you with some summary comments on our key liquid developments in Williston Eagle Ford and Uinta and reserve most of the time for our SCOOP and “STACK” plays.
So let's get started with the Williston.
Our net production was 13 400 barrels of oil equivalent a day well ahead of our guidance of 11 800.
We expect that our Williston production will show year-over-year growth of about 40% in 2013 compared to our original growth forecast of just 15%.
Our continued performance in the Williston relates to better performance from existing wells faster drilling times which lead to more wells drilled during the year and earlier first production followed by -- following fracture stimulation and completions basically reduced cycle time.
Our completed well costs year-to-date have averaged $8.7 million per 10 000-foot SXL and our well cost includes $800 000 in artificial lift and facilities.
Our 2013 wells are costing about $2.6 million less than a comparable well in 2012.
We completed 17 new wells in the Bakken during the third quarter with initial average initial gross production rates of 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and about 570 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the first 90 days.
In addition we recently completed a well in the second bench of the Three Forks our Anderson 10H well.
This well had an initial gross production of about 1 775 barrels of oil equivalent per day and a 30-day average of about 620 barrels of oil equivalent gross.
We believe that at least 1/3 of our development acreage could be perspective for development of multi-zones beneath the Middle Bakken.
We are operating a fourth rig -- 4-rig program in the Williston today dominated by multi-well pads and SXLs.
Our early planning for 2014 envision similar levels of activity and continued production growth.
In the Eagle Ford our activity in West Asherton is in full development mode.
During the third quarter we brought on line 20 new wells and lateral lengths range from 5 000 to 10 000 feet.
The real impact from the new wells can be seen in our fourth quarter guidance where we are expecting average net production of more than 12 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And here's a summary of our Eagle Ford highlights.
Third quarter net production averaged 8 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We expect our full year production will increase about 70% over 2012 levels.
For 2014 net production is expected to grow about 30% year-over-year.
Our average gross completed well cost year-to-date for a 7 500-foot SXL of $7.3 million.
And we expect to drill 36 wells in 2013 and about 20 wells in 2014.
Our 2014 program will include 7 wells in the operated portion of our Fashing field in Atascosa County.
Let's move now to the Uinta Basin.
Over the last several months we have collected a significant amount of new data in Uinta specifically in the Central Basin.
This new data has helped to reinforce our view of the resource potential in the basin and we continue to advance our learning curves and work toward lower well cost in Uinta development.
Our investment levels and growth outlook in the Uinta Basin will be determined by available refining capacity the evolving regulatory environment and the allocation of capital to the projects with the best returns in our portfolio.
And let me quickly address each of these topics.
First let's talk about refining.
In the third quarter our Uinta Basin net sales averaged more than 2 000 -- 23 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day lower than our forecast of 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our sales were once again negatively impacted by unplanned refinery downtime.
Fortunately the out-performance we have seen in other focused areas more than cover this shortfall.
Again this is the advantage of having multiple focus areas to invest our capital.
As we plan for 2014 and beyond be assured that our investment levels in the Uinta Basin will be timed to match available growth in refining capacity and our ability to sell our production.
As I mentioned in recent months we've been experiencing refinery interruptions that affect our sales and there's an interesting graph in @NFX that helps to eliminate this impact.
As you know we've signed agreements with both HollyFrontier and Tesoro that adds about 20 000 barrels of oil of new capacity in the basin by 2016.
Over the last year our sales have been impacted by both planned and unplanned refinery interruptions.
Until we have better visibility that these projects are advancing timely we will modify our plans accordingly.
As a result over the last 2 months we've been shifting capital to the Anadarko Basin our SCOOP and “STACK” plays provide superior near-term returns and we maintain our Uinta inventory for long-term growth as our leases are held by production.
The second item relates to regulatory environment in Utah.
We are working with state regulators to mend field rules to allow for the drilling of the optimal future well and spacing.
Utah is a pro-business state and they understand how SXLs improve returns and reduce environmental impact.
We recently received approval to drill 2 incremental density pilots and 3 1 280-acre DSUs in the Wasatch giving us the ability to drill additional SXLs in 2014.
These pilots will test a multi-well stacked pad development concept.
In our @NFX publication on Page 18 we've included a graphic that depicts the multi-well potential in both the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch formations.
The final priority I want to reference is the optimization of our drilling and completion operations.
Our recent well results are greatly improved and show the advancement of our learning curve.
In @NFX you can see the results of our recent Uteland Butte SXL wells which have doubled the initial production of our SXL -- our XL wells and averaged about 1 700 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross.
A third SXL well in the Uteland Butte is in its early days of flow back.
In the Wasatch we recently completed our best well ever in the Uinta Basin.
The Patterson XL had an initial gross production of more than 2 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day and this is only a 3 200-foot lateral.
We estimate that our 5 short lateral wells drilled to date have an average EUR of about 500 000 barrels equivalent.
In late November we plan to spud our first SXL in the Wasatch.
We are confident that SXL wells are the key to unlocking the ultimate economic potential of this basin like they have elsewhere.
With the ability to shift capital efficiently through our portfolio we have options today to deliver on our stated corporate growth objectives improve the certainty of our projections and manage through any of these uncertainties.
Let's move now to the Anadarko Basin.
In yesterday's release we disclosed a new resource play in the Anadarko Basin.
Since catchy play names seem to be in we reference ours as the “STACK”.
The play was recently expanded through the 70 000 net acre acquisition closed in the third quarter.
“STACK” denotes the “STACK” nature of this new oil resource play combining 2 plays our North Woodford and our new Meramec Shale plays.
There's a graphic in @NFX that defines the stratigraphic column and depicts the 700-foot of oil saturated interval that we are exploiting.
The primary producers are the Meramec Shale and the slightly deeper Woodford Shale.
However there are other perspective formations across our acreage as well.
The Meramec is a Mississippi in age [ph] shale that lies directly above the Woodford.
It ranges in thickness from 275 feet to 475 foot across our acreage and has comparable porosity to the Woodford and permeability is significantly greater in the Meramec.
While Mississippi in an age [ph] this play should not be confused with the lime play further to the north.
We now have more than 225 000 net acres in the Anadarko Basin.
This includes more than 170 000 net acres perspective in the Cana Woodford and more than 150 000 acres in the “STACK”.
To date we have drilled 7 SXL wells in the “STACK” in which 3 of these wells are in the Meramec.
All of the wells results can be seen on Page 9 of -- in NFX.
Our Meramec wells have been very encouraging with initial gross flow rates averaging more than 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 70% of the production is liquids.
These are great early results in a new resource play with initial wells delivering solid rates of return.
The pipe curve for our “STACK” and SCOOP place are very similar.
These early returns will only improve as we have shown time and time again that we can improve margins by lowering development costs optimizing completions to enhance both production rates and EUR.
This is an oil play and we will be testing additional intervals and spacing in 2014 to determine our optimized plans.
Our new acreage requires us to drill wells over the next 2 years to hold the acreage by production and therefore we have been shifting capital into the region.
Next week we will add an 8th operated rig in the Anadarko Basin and we're planning to run at least 2 rigs in the “STACK” in 2014.
We will have more to share with you by mid-2014 and be able to more accurately communicate our ultimate resource potential that enhance drilling inventory.
This play has the potential to add thousands of drilling locations to drive our liquids great -- growth well into the future.
Our third quarter net production in the Anadarko Basin averaged 22 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day or about 3 700 ahead of our guidance.
This was related to the early completion of some new multi-well pads and altering our own operated stimulation plans.
We expect to beat our 2013 net production target for the Anadarko Basin of 7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We have 2 new pads coming online late this year and expect a significant bump in production yielding a first quarter 2014 average of 31 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
The Anadarko basin has quickly become our largest producing asset at Newfield.
We are extremely excited over Anadarko Basin's program and its ability to drive corporate growth levels.
In closing fun facts in our SCOOP program our 2013 wells in the SCOOP wet gas averaged over 1 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day in gross initial production and our 30-day and 60-day average rates are the same at more than 1 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day about 22% of the production is oil over the first 60 days.
In our SCOOP oil play recent wells have had average gross initial production of more than 1 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day and averaged nearly 1 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day over their first 90 days more than 50% of this production is oil.
These are all outstanding wells.
I'll turn it back to you Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks again to all of you for joining us this morning.
In today's updates I hope you can sense our excitement around our 2013 results and our outlook for the future.
We are focused on delivering our results and making the final transition to becoming an on-shore focused resource company.
Through the remainder of this week we will be reviewing our strategy with our board and discussing the various scenarios that we have to deliver on our desired outcomes.
We have options through the deep inventory of liquids drilling projects that we have in our portfolio.
Using these options we will select the best path forward to build value for our stockholders.
I look forward to providing you with our outlook for 2014 through 2016 prior to year end.
At this time we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So first I guess on the Meramec versus the Cana is there a way this time to calculate oil in place by the 2 separate targets? Well we said in the call script we've gathered some substantial core data.
We've got core through the entirety of the section our team's not yet had a chance to access all of our data they are in the lab being worked through.
So I think the final -- we are fine under those numbers will take place through the balance of this year.
And soon as we can get into a place to give you some more color on the several [ph] resource which I'd expect sometime early next year we'll put that out in the form that you can digest.
But at this point reference the call we've got 700 feet of oil column.
We've successfully tested 2 of 5 or more horizons in that 700-foot interval with 10 000-foot laterals.
Those wells on a composite basis the first 7 wells out of the sheet in the play are generating returns in excess of 35%.
I mean that's exciting.
When you think about what we've shown that we can do in terms of switching learning curves down and I think we are off to a great start.
And I think we've got a really bright future ahead in this play.
And certainly with the 700 feet of oil saturated section there's a lot of resource here to be worked.
Research Division</strong> Okay as a follow-up Lee I think previously we had talked about North Oil using -- that term having 20 000 acre position initially to work and develop.
Any further thoughts on that what the prospectivity now could be after these Q3 results? I think if you go to the @NFX publication we've actually shown the acreage block and it's obviously substantial.
When you look at the distribution of the 7 wells they test a block of acreage that's about 10 to 11 miles by 10 to 11 miles.
So we've got a sizable portion of the total acreage block that's already been tested and we'll continue to expand that with wells we have planned through the end of this year and early into the next year.
And I think from a de-risk standpoint I don't have a firm final number but I'd say we're probably at a point where we think we've probably de-risked something like 30% of the acreage somewhere and that's good [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 30 to 150.
And we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the pending China divestiture.
Is that something you think likely you can get announced this year? Any guide you can give us in terms of timing as when you think that might come here? Yes.
We're working on that right now trying to get clarity around our Pearl development.
As you know the -- we have had to go do some of those additional inspections around the insulation process.
And so once we get that we give clarity to potential buyers and kind of hopefully get that process wrapped up in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just in terms of your new “STACK” play here.
Are you guys seeing other competition out there from other operators? And do you think there's more acreage that's available that you guys could potentially capture in both “STACK” and SCOOP? Well.
I would say that obviously it's been a hot play and I think that -- I got to take my hats off to our team for what they have done in building this 225 000-plus net acre position.
Relative to the “STACK” play we've quietly chased that acreage for well over 2 years.
And I think the announced acreage position that we added in August really cored up that area.
And at this point with 150 000 acres and average working interest of around 60% across that acreage position we are very excited about the potential there.
And clearly our team continues to look for opportunities since we are actively drilling we're likely to continue to take up interest through the pooling process in Oklahoma but we don't have any other large-scale leasing programs underway at this time in that area.
And we'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys just talk about the -- I don't know what the depth goes from in your slides goes from 8 to 9 to 11 000 feet as far as the “STACK”.
Can you just talk about the general geology of what's your space in the Meramec as far as North to South East to West that type of thing? Sure David.
I mean essentially I think the biggest thing we need to be clear about is how Meramec sits in space to your point.
The Meramec sits between the source rock which is really the Woodford Shale and the Meramec does have some self sourcing.
But it's all sitting under a seal that Chester Shale and I think it's Slide 7 of the deck that's out there we show a cross-section.
This is a bit of a surprise for us quite honestly when we drilled our early wells targeting Woodford we expected to see a limestone in there much further down depth from the chuddy [ph] lime or the chat [ph] that you see much further to the north near the Kansas border.
We ended up finding the Shale there and we took some core and we're quite excited about it.
It's really a silica-rich calcareous shale.
We took the core got excited about it and ultimately drilled our first well which turned out real nice for us.
So as you take this play further to the north ultimately what happens is you lose that Chester seal that's on top of it and you end up without a cap to it and then that's -- it's much shallower slightly under pressure.
And then the bugs [ph] that were played up there on really some small kind of stack [ph] traps up in the lime play is how that differs from the play that we are pursuing which is really a much heavily fractured shale formation much like the Woodford itself.
Now the play does extend further to the East but again they have a lot of well control out there and we've already alluded to we've already determined kind of where we believe the sweet spot is at this play but ultimately it's going to take more activity to ultimately firm it all up.
But I would expect and as we already alluded to -- the well results look very very similar.
We're looking about somewhere between ultimately 800 000 barrels or 1 million barrels.
That's awfully strong.
With the returns that we have we're really encouraged.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up.
How should we think about and whoever wants to take this -- I know you said you've been chasing this for a couple of years but when you guys issued your guidance I guess back in February for '13 '14 '15 do you have any of the “STACK” built-in here or was it just more of the SCOOP in the forward guidance? No.
The only thing we had at the time that we did that would have been the Woodford targeting the Woodford portfolio.
We didn't build any of this into the inventory.
And we'll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just first question just on the Meramec.
I think the IPs are showing little cuts of 70% and 90% but you're talking about 40% on the EUR.
Do you have enough -- do you have some production history for the EUR numbers? Or is that just your initial estimate based on the number of wells you have right now? Well remember there's a 2-product phase and a 3-product phase number so when you look at well test we are quoting essentially liquid barrels with a separator and then raw rich gas.
When you look at 3-phase product strain you're converting a portion of the gas strain to NGLs it's just simple math.
If you go back to the 2-product strain you can see that the liquid yields in these phase are very very strong at 70% 75% on the early pull back when you convert a portion of the gas strain to NGLs and you change in total mix.
That's a 2 [ph] product strain.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
As a follow up can you just tell us how many wells you have tested in the Meramec by year end '13 and then by year end '14 based on your drilling plans? I think there's 3 more -- I'll let Gary -- Gary's looking through his notes but I think we'll have 3 more between now and year end.
Obviously part of the 2014 start into discussions with the board we've got a notional plan.
It was time but we're going to have to wait til we get the final approval.
Any color on that Gary? Yes.
We'll probably have in the Meramec by year end 2013 we'll have production history on 3 wells we'll probably have 5 drilled.
And as we head into 2014 ultimately the decision will be made on the fly as we're seeing more results.
With 2 rigs running up there we ought to be able to drill somewhere around 20 wells or so targeting both the Meramec and the North Oil.
And I would suggest right now it's probably equally split between the 2 plays.
And we'll take our next question from Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> It's been great getting results.
Can you just talk about that SCOOP oil curve and versus the results? I mean that well -- the well results are substantially above that curve.
Is there -- were you pumping that so that it's running above the type curve and should fall back down? Or is there just sort of an early indication that maybe your curves way too conservative? Well I hope it's the latter Gil.
The reality is down in the SCOOP areas as you head east to west across the play you really change faces pretty rapidly as we go from the wet gas to something that's -- to the oil-oil [ph] and then something in between.
So as we look to bin these wells in the different categories sometimes you end up juicing the overall decline based on just the mix of wells that we place in there.
So I think some of that is what you're seeing.
That said I think generally in recent activity over the last quarter or 2 we are seeing performance across the board in SCOOP higher than the type curves of what you see represented in the deck.
And we'll be looking at that very closely and I would anticipate revising that number up a little bit but that's maybe a little premature.
We still -- our result is obviously using the controlled fallback technique consistently and we are seeing better EURs over time as we lower that.
The other thing to remember is that year we gave you the best shot we had with the data that we had at year end '12.
We've been drilling these wells and accumulating the data.
Those type curves were built for a much broader total area for the play.
And we'll take the data that we've got and we'll revise on this as we see the technical data giving us a push in that direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I could sort of paraphrase what you both said is that the actual 7 SCOOP oil well's may be in a somewhat gassier part of the play so they're a little bit more productive on average than that type curve was built before? So the gassy oils are in the wet gas portion of the play.
It's possible that a few of the wells as you transition you could have some wells that are more gassy than the oil wells and therefore that's what you're seeing.
But as I said I believe we will see the type curve navigate higher overtime.
But you're sitting there and those wells today are probably 70% returns and will only get better from there.
If you look at the @NFX publication they've laid it out actually show you where the wells are and what the liquids mix is on Page 12 or SCOOP oil and Page 13 of that presentation is the wet gas.
You can see the distribution of wells and where they're at.
Clearly the SCOOP oil wells have -- are consistently higher oil yields from the 2-phase basis and I haven't added it up to get an average but it looks like the average is somewhere around 50% or a little bit higher and those 7 wells are part of that curve.
But it clearly very very oily.
Inc</strong> My second question is just on page -- regards actually Page 17 you show that nice ability to move barrels via rail if the local refinery capacity cannot take the barrels I think? If I'm interpreting that correctly.
If that's the case have you explored just the idea of rather than being confined to the basin just what's the opportunity cost of actually just moving -- railing the balance out and foregoing necessarily selling to the local market? Yes.
We've been looking at all these options for quite a while Gil.
Yes.
I mean we moved 250 000 barrels out this year and the frustrating part from our perspective is in addition to that we've still built our overall inventories by an additional 65 000 barrels.
And that's led to some of the reallocation of the capital trying to marry our production growth with the inventory growth.
And your question is is that we looked at it? And the answer is certainly yes.
As we sit here today we have 2 contracts in place that are ultimately going to leave us 38 000 barrels of contracted barrels in the basin.
I would expect over time what we'll see is that our production is going to far exceed the contracts that we currently have in place.
And as we get better visibility of that we will look to move more of the barrels outside the basin and that's likely going to be via rail.
So still being worked.
We need better visibility in all this.
And yes it is something that we considered a great deal.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the “STACK” play you mentioned an @NFX that you're planning to assess the lower Meramec and then also what the right spacing is next year.
Can you just add some insight into what your hypothesis is on both of those? Sure.
The lower really only means that it's older.
And as you cut across the play as you can see from the diagram that's in there in Slide 7 there is some section in there that we haven't tested yet.
We're very excited about it we just haven't got around to it in the wells that we are drilling so we would expect that it would perform similarly to what we already have.
But we haven't put a bit into that lower section.
As we already referenced it's quite thick and -- but we're very optimistic for that.
The other portion to your question is on spacing.
That's a good question.
As we've seen in the South more recently we've had spacing pilots of 5 6 and 8 wells per section.
The 5 and 6 well spacing units we operated and the 8 was operated by another party.
Our first observation was is that we thought 5 was going to be a little tight.
Then we got onto our most recent branch pad it's 6 wells per section and we're seeing them perform extraordinarily well.
So I would say 6 is probably a place that you'd say maybe is the high side but that's only in 1 interval.
What really remains to be seen in the Meramec is how many different levels that we can target in both the Meramec and in the entire “STACK” play in the Woodford.
So it's very possible that you could end up with somewhere between maybe 4 and 6 wells per section so you got to really think about it as multiple horizons across the entire area.
So there's a diagram in there I believe that demonstrates some in the Uinta.
And by analogy I think you can kind of see what we're thinking much -- very similar to what's been discussed in the Bakken and the first and second benches of the Three Forks.
That's a concept that we think applies very well here.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful color.
On a more big picture question the assets held proceeds from the international certainly helped the balance sheet here.
To what degree are you willing or planning to kind of dip into those proceeds in terms of spending and cash flow in the coming years versus balanced CapEx and cash flow? Yes Brian as I indicated our goal is to bring everything back into balance.
But certainly looking out next year there's going to be a deficit.
We don't expect that to be as large of a deficit we see this year.
And between the 2 asset sales that should more than cover the proceeds we need to kind of restore the fall [ph].
And we'll take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisor.
Looking at the “STACK” and kind of as you get into the details of development can you go through third quarter and fourth quarter just number of wells you completed both in the SCOOP and “STACK”? And then you said you have 2 pads that are going to be completed at the end of the year.
Just wanted to get into those specific details.
I don't have any -- as far as the quarterly activity David I can't really provide that to you.
I'd just suggest you get with Steve later on and he'll provide the details to you.
How many wells do you have [indiscernible] We have 3 wells on production currently and I think those were all well illustrated in detail in there.
3 in the Meramec...
In the Meramec and then we have 4 on the Woodford.
So those are all illustrated in the @NFX.
As far as the timing of those I think we had 2 of those wells very early in the year and the third of the Meramec wells was later in the year early third quarter.
And then for your development type curve you show how many days of flat production do you think while you're kind of draining that production network? It looks like it's somewhere around 50 days or so.
I really wouldn't think about it a drained list [ph] the fracture network.
This is something that we induced through the choke to really hold these wells back.
And then ultimately the purpose is as you described; it's to allow the frac to close in a more controlled fashion.
There's probably a lot more to it than that but probably 50 days or so.
And we'll take our next question from John Nelson with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Starting there to play sort of devil's advocate you had a very clear acquisition price of about $900 per acre for those assets you did mention in your prepared comments that there were some HBP requirements? I'm just wondering if you could sort of shed any light on what makes -- how to have made that an apples-to-apples per acre comparison what the value might be there? Well from a value standpoint I'm not quite sure what you mean on an apples-to-apples comparison.
I mean we look at -- the acquisition price was somewhere in the $600 to $900 an acre.
We've accumulated acreage in that position in grassroots leasing prior to making the acquisition that we did.
So as far as...
Research Division</strong> No I guess what I was trying to get at is if the acreage was expiring.
I imagine you're going to pay the teller [ph] a lot.
So HBP requirements sounds very reluctant [ph] to that acquisition or in general? Let me back you up here and help you to think about the acreage a little differently.
We drilled the well acquired port data had proprietary information that no one else has and we bought the acreage at a very attractive price.
That's the way to think about the “STACK” acreage.
It's an exciting play.
We had an opportunity where we had proprietary acreage -- technical data and we took advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I guess sort of a bigger picture follow-on.
You've seen consolidation activity in both the Eagle Ford and the Williston.
And obviously you'll bring in a tremendous amount of investor proceeds through the international sale but I'm wondering if you thought about potentially monetizing those assets and also further accelerate development in the Anadarko Basin? Well I think we've proven over the last few years that we are willing to move assets for the right reasons at the right time.
I mean prior to the Malaysian announcement we had over $1 billion in the preceding 2 years so we'll have divested nearly $2 billion to accelerate this transition to onshore North American resource play company.
I think the assets we've got we've been clear we like.
We're excited about the results that we're generating on these plays and we've also stated that we continue to believe that we have any optionality to move capital amongst 3 or 4 different development programs is a real benefit relative to planning and certainty and outcomes in that regard.
But we'll continue to look for opportunities to maximize the value of our assets.
And along the way somewhere or someplace and sometime I'm sure we'll have something else that we divest or acquire.
But right now we have nothing else on the block.
And we'll take our next question from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
With the Meramec you mentioned that it was very permeable.
How permeable? You got me there.
John it's really good stuff I like that.
Let me jump in while Gary is looking through his notes and say something.
We're not going to have the -- we don't have the core data fully evaluated at this point but the data that we do have which was early on the first quarter that we've got showed that the porosity current data.
And the Meramec was above a cycle on all basis about a cycle above the data that we had generated out of the Woodford.
So just on a relative comparison basis which was Gary's comment the Meramec is superior based on the data that we have analyzed to what we've seen in the Woodford.
And I think the early production performance and the sustained nature of that performance all fits with that coordinator.
I guarantee you Gary will have the detail in his back pocket for you the next time you ask.
Well Campbell can always get it to me.
In terms of “STACK” play pad drilling 2015 and middle through '15? Yes.
I think that's a reasonable expectation John.
You know John when you look at that acreage the other neat thing about it is it's really pored up it's backed up well for drilling 1280s which certainly Oklahoma has moved a long way to allow us to do that.
So generally we drill these long laterals we're knocking down 2 sections per well.
And I think as we move into the pad drilling and spacing we'll probably be working on either side of the lease line to make sure that we're maximizing the HBP efforts on the acreage.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just want to confirm.
So you're doing the control flow back in “STACK” just as you are in down south? We are.
I would say that what we've seen in “STACK” and if you look at those curves there's the -- whatever it is 40 50 days it's kind of flat line of that period is kind of flowback and then there's the little dip that you see in the production curve.
That's actually going from primary production flow to artificial lifts.
So you see the conversion.
Each one of the play is different down south we've got a much longer time period for plateau production.
And then out in the Uinta again we're using controlled flow there.
That 2 200-barrel of oil equivalent per day well that we talked about was flowing at 2 500 psi when that data was recorded so we've got plenty of horse power behind those stands [ph].
So each area is going to be a little bit different and we're using it because we think it's the right approach in terms of bringing back these wells in the Uinta [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so we'll kind of follow-up on the development type curve here in “STACK”.
So how many days forward are we seeing the artificial lift? And then finally where -- what's the pressure gradient up here versus SCOOP? The pressure gradiant here is just slightly it's normal.
And in some cases a little ahead of normal.
Depending on where we're at some of these wells will run gas lift initially in these wells.
Sometimes they'll come in for quite a while without having to put any gas to them.
And others will put gas to it yearly to help it unload.
So I would say generally speaking you ought to see anywhere between a week and 60 days depending on the well that we're talking about here.
And we'll take our next question from Majid Nikhanj with ITG.
This is actually Manuj from ITG.
I just have a quick question on the Meramec.
So you mentioned that it's partially self-sourced and then primarily sourced from the Woodford.
Can you just give a bit more color on that? And the Woodford I would assume it's overpressured in that northern region.
Is that correct to assume? If it's overpressured it's just slightly overpressured.
And yes we see organics both -- the Woodford Shale is the source for both the Osage the Mississippi this Meramec play that we've got.
But we do see organics in the play itself so when we actually look at it we've been surprised at the amount of vertical fractures that exist in the Meramec.
And that's going to be attributed to probably some of the sourcing that took place as well.
Got you.
So it's kind of like thinking of it as like partially self-sources as well as sourced from the Woodford? So all the maturity should be the same? You've got all that fetch area on the East side of the Anadarko so the Woodford is generating everything is moving up.
You've got the top seals.
So there's a lot of things that come together here that really keep the oil trapped in the right places.
So we're very very excited about it.
It's rich and we're going to have a lot more data here in a few months when we get finished with the core data and the production data.
Okay.
and the outline that you guys put on Slide 9 of your presentation for the Meramec overlap and it ends kind of a Northern Kingfisher is that just a function of where the Chester is or...? That's an outline that we thought was appropriate to describe the play.
Yes.
I think what you're describing is accurate.
Basically the Pennsylvania came in and eroded off the Chester.
So as you wrap yourself around the play you would go from the chat play up to the North.
And that same seal is removed as you move further to the Northeast.
That's how you'd describe it.
Okay.
And so there's a number of private operators up in Kingfisher that are active.
Are they chasing that same target as you guys or are they -- do you know that they're drilling horizontally in Kingfisher? I believe what's taking place and I could be mistaken but there was some early plays trying to chase the chat further up there.
And there's also been some drilling that the Devon did playing a slightly thinner Woodford over there and they had some success which has given us some encouragement that Woodford and may extend a little further a little bit.
So as far as there's a hunting play that's out there which is deeper that's underneath the Woodford.
But to our knowledge we've tried to capture what we believe ultimately will be the core of the play.
Okay.
And then just the very last question is the well-cost range I think you've increased the upper end of the range for that North Oil area to about $13 million from I think it was just $10 million? Is that just a function of reduced cluster spacing among your laterals? Yes.
We've been able to continually take trouble out of the system and during our drilling cost's down but as we've moved in transition in the tighter spacing the completion costs have gone up some.
The good news is that the UR's have gone up disproportionately.
So it's been a real good trade for us.
I suspect like many of these plays we'll get more and more experience and we'll start backing off on the size of the jobs and be able to take some cost out of there.
But we're continually we're reminded here basically taking cost out of your completions is not a place to start early in the play.
It's all about returns.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Cannell with Mariner Investment Group.
What are you guys thinking in terms of after-tax proceeds on the Malaysian sale? So yes we don't anticipate paying any tax on Malaysia.
We're going to bring that cash back tax-free.
So you should see some adjustments for working capital but that will be minor so it should be able to get almost full proceeds back.
Okay and then in terms of China is it a similar expectation in the year? Well China we would end up with a 10% tax on the proceeds there.
And so factor that in for next year whenever we get that sale complete.
And we'll take our last question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get into I guess the dispositional environment a little bit more.
I'm just kind of googling here a little bit in the last few minutes.
It looks like there's the St.
Louis line is kind of mentioned as well as there's the Osage Meramec and Schooner trend I guess.
I'm guessing you're in the Schooner trend -- that's some papers back in the late 70s you're talking about.
But I guess is that accurate? And I mean I guess they talk about that as I guess a deeper gas play.
So I guess do you have processing capacity locked in to kind of handle some of this wet gas and liquids as they come along? Okay.
You got a lot of questions in there.
That's okay.
No that's good.
But I see Google is working for you.
So yes to answer a couple of your questions yes this is in the Schooner trend.
Yes the Osage is the formation that exists between the Meramec and the Woodford Shale and we believe it ultimately it could be a target here.
And I think we alluded that in our script.
As we've already talked primarily most of this is an oil product that we're pursuing.
There is a lot of gas in the area.
As far as capacity we actually met on this yesterday afternoon with our team up there.
We believe there's quite a bit of excess point capacity in the northern portion of the Anadarko Basin.
We are currently going to be going out for an RFP with a number of providers to make sure that we can lock that in.
But within the near term fortunately most of the product is going be oil and we have good access to markets there.
And we don't anticipate -- all of the wells that we've booked up to date have been timely and we don't anticipate any issues there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I guess there's probably isn't issue with the -- you've mentioned also I think in the comments earlier about the -- I think the Chester I guess thinning and then as you go to the north I mean is that needed as a frac barrier? No.
I wouldn't think of it as that.
I mean the Chester was really just what kept all the oil in the Meramec and the Woodford.
It kind of formed the trap.
The zone is -- when you're sitting at 200 to 500 feet we're not worried about a frac barrier here at all so I wouldn't think of it as that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I guess.
How expensive are the fractures that are in the formation? Are they directionally significant? I mean is it something that would drill like the old Austin Chalk play? Or is it -- do you have a lot more ability going in kind of lay in your own fracs and place some possibly? Let us go back to what I said earlier.
Let us finish our technical analysis.
We've acquired a lot of data over the last few months.
We'll have more to say on the play early in the new year and we'll keep you guys posted as well results roll off.
But there's a lot of fractures and we're excited about the play.
I think those are the few key takeaways today.
I'd like to thank everybody for dialing in today.
As you can tell we're excited about how things are playing out excited about getting year 1 of our 3-year plan behind us and excited about the visit we had with our board on the balance this week.
We look forward to updating you on our 3-year plan before year end and we look forward to seeing you on the road as we continue to update you on the progress in these plays.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.