Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2012 and 2013 annual reports on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings and release of any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby [Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Newfield Exploration.
We've provided a thorough update of our 2013 results in yesterday's @NFX publication and in our earnings release.
We plan to keep today's year-end wrap-up relatively short leave ample time for your questions at the end of the call.
So our results in 2013 were strong.
Our team has executed extremely well during the course of the year and we entered 2014 with confidence in our people our assets and our ability to execute and deliver relative to our 3-year plan.
So here's a brief outline of today's call.
First I want to reiterate our strategic focus and illuminate our path to value creation for our shareholders.
We believe we're on a path to improving stockholder returns.
All Newfield employees are shareholders and I can assure you that our interests are aligned with yours.
Second our CFO Larry Massaro will cover fourth quarter and year-end financial results.
Our plan provides both production and cash flow growth and focuses on the development of the liquids-rich assets we have in our domestic U.S.
resource plays.
As you know we recently closed on the sale of our Malaysian business and Larry will update you on the use of proceeds and our ongoing sale of our China business along with our financial objectives in the near term.
And third our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer will provide operational highlights from each of our domestic focus areas and a summary of our 2014 plans.
So let's get started.
Today our business strategy is clear and we intend to deliver on the objectives outlined in our refreshed 2014 to 2016 plan.
We've completed our transition to a liquids company and our near-term capital investments will remain focused on liquids-rich plays.
Our $1.6 billion budget this year is allocated entirely to creating value through the liquids growth with the SCOOP and STACK plays comprising nearly 1/2 of the total.
Although we have a strong inventory of national gas assets and the front end of the natural gas curve has improved of late our investment strategy remains unchanged.
Our returns from our oil and gas liquids plays remains superior.
Second Newfield is now better focused on what we call our plays of the future.
Over the last 4 years we've sold more than $3 billion in nonstrategic assets and reinforced our vision to be a top-tier domestic-focused resource company.
Our investments in the 3-year plan are expected to deliver more than 20% CAGR in cash flow and liquids production growth.
Furthermore you'll see that our lease operating expenses are moving in the right direction proof that the efficiencies in our domestic business are positively impacting the bottom line.
By 2016 we expect that our annual investments will more closely align with our cash flow from operations.
We are on course to improve our debt-adjusted production and reserve growth on a per share basis.
And third we continue to add both depth and quality to our portfolio of opportunities which is the key to our future success.
The recent addition of our SCOOP and STACK plays have significantly expanded our inventory and will provide decades of growing.
We have a significant resource base in the Uinta Basin where exciting work is now yielding improved results as we open up another large-scale resource play for us to attack.
We had some stellar results in 2013 and delivered the year 1 objectives of our 3-year plan.
I'll provide a quick summary of these highlights for you now leading off with proved reserves.
Evidence of our value creation can be seen in our year-end 2013 proved reserve disclosure which we issued yesterday.
Our domestic proved reserves were up 8% to 576 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our domestic liquids reserves increased 26% during the year and our domestic proved reserves are now 52% liquids.
Our pretax SEC PV10 value for the domestic reserve reflects the pronounced shift towards liquids and was up 44% to $6.6 billion.
At year-end 2013 94% of our proved reserves were located onshore in the U.S.
and 56 were -- 56% were proved developed.
We moved a step closer to achieving our vision through the sale of our Malaysian business earlier this month.
We closed the sale on February 10 and used the $898 million in proceeds to eliminate short-term borrowings and get a jump-start on our 2014 drilling campaigns.
In 2013 we twice raised production guidance and once again exceeded our guidance ranges in the fourth quarter both domestically and internationally.
The 2013 production from continuing operations was 40.1 million barrels of oil equivalent exceeding our beginning-of-year estimates.
The outperformance was primarily related to the Williston and Anadarko basins.
We delivered on 2013's expectations for cost and expenses and the efficiencies in our development programs are translating to the bottom line.
In our cost and expense guidance for 2014 you can see that our full year expectations show an improvement in every category.
Earlier in my remarks I mentioned SCOOP and STACK's impact on expanding our drilling inventory but it's also worth noting we have quickly reallocated capital among our business units to facilitate faster development in the Anadarko Basin.
We remain firm in our belief that having a few quality areas in which to invest helps provide flexibility to shift people and capital to the best opportunities.
And today that is certainly the Anadarko Basin.
We continue to advance our understanding of the vast resource in our Central Basin area in Utah.
Our most recent horizontal wells in the Central Basin are highly encouraging.
Although it's early days we're seeing strong flow rates from our most recent SXL wells these are the 10 000-foot laterals in the Central Basin and consistent with our practice we will wait until we have at least 30 days of production to update you but expect that from us soon.
With the improved production rates these recent wells are expected to deliver returns that will compete within our portfolio.
Production information that we are collecting today in the Central Basin is helpful in our understanding of this vast resource.
In the Bakken and Eagle Ford we are now in full field development.
Through pad drilling and optimized well designs we are seeing solid returns.
These plays are providing strong oil growth and helping to accelerate our SCOOP and STACK developments.
2013 was indeed a great year for Newfield and I'm excited about 2014.
I'll let Gary Packer provide additional color on our operations in a few minutes following our CFO Larry Massaro's overview of the financial results.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
By now I hope you had a chance to review our financial statements for the fourth quarter.
Excluding the items noted in our news release our net income was $66 million or $0.48 a share.
Cash flow was $398 million.
Both earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter beat consensus estimates.
Fourth quarter production was 12.8 million barrels of which 2.2 million barrels came from disc ops.
We continued to see strong growth in our domestic liquids production up 11% quarter-on-quarter.
For 2013 we posted GAAP net income of $147 million or $0.94 per share.
Excluding the items noted in our news release our net income from continuing ops was $213 million or $1.56 per share.
For 2013 our cash flow from continuing operations was about $1.1 billion.
From a financial perspective there are 3 key things that are important.
First our 3-year plan is all about driving cash flow growth.
As we've mapped out the next 3 years we have a 20% compound annual growth rate and cash flow.
Our production base has shifted to liquids and our domestic areas are growing rapidly.
At $90-oil and $4-gas we estimate our strong growth in liquids over the next 3 years will allow us to generate cash flow from operations of about $1.6 billion in year 3.
Second we are capturing efficiencies in our operations.
From the cost and expense guidance in our release yesterday you can see positive trajectories in our annual projections for cash costs and expenses.
We are laser-focused as an organization on improving our returns and driving growth through our domestic developments.
Third we financed our transition to liquids while living within our balance sheet.
On the -- over the last several years we sold approximately $3 billion of nonstrategic assets and we have used our $1.1 billion of credit facility to bridge short-term funding deficits.
We recently restored the full capacity of our facility with proceeds from our Malaysia sale.
Newfield has a long history of managing the balance sheet and maintaining strong liquidity.
I assure you that we do not plan to deviate from this track record and we plan to use proceeds for planned asset sales in our projection of rising earnings and cash flow to reduce our current leverage.
In short our plan is designed to improve debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
Let me quickly give you an update on China sales process.
As you know the process was delayed last year due to a mechanical issue during installation of our topside.
We completed substantially all of the underwater surveys and are now working with our partner on the best path toward first production in 2014.
We continue to anticipate a sale in 2014 and we'll keep you informed as more information is known.
I'll turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Larry.
Let me give you a quick rundown on our key drilling programs as we enter 2014.
I'll start my remarks today in the Anadarko Basin followed by the Uinta.
The Anadarko and Uinta basins are both large-scale liquids plays that combined are accounting for about 70% of our planned investments in 2014.
In yesterday's @NFX we provided a first look at our resource potential in SCOOP and STACK plays.
Combined these plays have added about 1 billion barrels of un-risked [ph] resource to the Newfield portfolio.
Our estimates are based on spacing assumptions of 1 320 feet and 660 feet between wells respectively.
Keep in mind all of our planned wells are SXLs.
We continue to see very strong results from our SCOOP and STACK plays.
Early wins can be noted in a couple of distinct categories.
First our well performance has been exceptional.
In yesterday's news release we published a summary table of our 2013 well results.
You will note that our SCOOP 90-day production rates are higher than our 60-day rates.
From the well performance we have experienced to date we raised the midpoint of our expected EURs associated with SCOOP.
We have reduced perforation clusters in our stimulations and have seen increased well performance.
We continue to optimize our completions today.
In STACK our 30- 60- and 90-day rates are very healthy and we are early in advancing the learning curves in this play.
We have 8 wells under our belt at year end and we are early in optimizing the best completion practices.
We are encouraged by early well results with wells exceeding our original-type curves.
In addition we are capturing mid-30% returns today and it's very early.
We know that our returns will improve with time and we continue to drive efficiencies in our programs.
To date we have been able to invest our savings through drilling efficiencies into more aggressive completion designs resulting in better overall well economics.
We have successfully tested 65-foot clusters in the SCOOP area and are now evaluating 50- and 75-foot cluster spacings in STACK.
Second a significant upgrade to our midstream gas gathering was just completed in SCOOP.
Our growth has been rapid due to the faster drilling times and improved well performance.
These are good problems to have but we filled the system capacity before expansion of new infrastructure was complete.
Obviously the cold weather also impacted ongoing construction projects as well.
The good news is that the upgrade is complete and it has allowed us to bring on an additional 4 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the last few days.
We will soon be moving 31 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
We do not see this first quarter interruption impacting our full year estimates for the company.
Our 2014 program has several key objectives.
First we will be drilling the holed acreage while expanding the aerial boundaries of our STACK play.
Fortunately we were able to combine higher returns on our HBP needs.
In 2014 we will gather some significant new data in STACK.
Our test to date had been in the Upper Meramec and Woodford.
We have plans to test the lower Meramec in the second quarter as well as other perspective geologic horizons on this acreage.
In over the next 2 or 3 years we will have a much better determination of ultimate well spacing.
In @NFX we provided a graphic that will help you visualize the ultimate potential in this play as we do.
Our upside is significant and our well control today is helping determination -- our determination of our best path forward.
And finally we are ensuring that we have the necessary infrastructure to keep pace with our growth.
We have a new system up and running today in the SCOOP area and later this year we will sign an agreement for new infrastructure in our STACK area.
In the Uinta basin we are allocating our 2014 capital investment between 2 areas: the continued development of the GMBU waterflood and the ongoing assessment of our horizontal plays in Central Basin.
There's some exciting tests underway today that will help you and us better understand our resource as well as where overall returns stack up in our portfolio of investment choices.
The Central Basin program is where I would like to focus my update today.
Over the last several years we've been able to -- we've been working down 2 large plays the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
As we have worked with state regulators to modify the spacing requirements our drilling has now evolved to SXL wells consistent with best practices in other resource plays and we like the results to date.
We know these wells are the optimal wells for the future.
We have the drilling permit in hand now for our planned SXL wells in 2014 and continue to work with Utah regulators to permanently amend the field rules to allow these longer wells which will offer a more effective drainage of the resource.
Our recent SXL wells have provided some very encouraging early production data.
As Lee mentioned we don't plan to report the results until we have at least 30 days of production on several wells and a better understanding of what the new information means to the ultimate resource in the basin and our path forward for development.
Our investment levels and near-term growth outlook in the Uinta Basin will continue to be determined by the timing of refinery expansions the regulatory environment and our internal pledge to allocate our capital to the projects with the best returns.
We have signed agreements with both HollyFrontier and Tesoro that add about 20 000 barrels of oil per day of new capacity in the basin by 2016.
Both expansions are well underway and our first tranche will be available mid-2015 and the full 20 000 barrels a day will be available late 2016.
In the Williston Basin we are well underway with full field development.
Our teams have successfully made this transition and we have lowered our well cost to about $8.4 million including $800 000 in facilities.
For 2013 our volumes exceeded our forecast by 700 000 barrels and we've seen excellent well performance from our base production.
Our 4-rig program will continue in 2014 and we expect 35% to 40% year-over-year production growth.
We drilled 8 wells in the Three Forks in 2013 7 testing the first bench and 1 testing the second.
We remain encouraged and along with the industry we will continue to test these prospective horizons beneath the Middle Bakken.
In the Eagle Ford the rapid development of our West Asherton area led to a 60% production growth in 2013.
We drilled about 30 wells primarily SXLs from common pad locations.
For the year our average gross completed-well cost for a 7 500-foot SXL was $7.3 million.
Our activity in 2014 will be split between West Asherton and our Fashing field.
We are looking for year-over-year growth in 2014 of about 30% and we expect to drill about 20 wells including 7 wells in the Fashing field.
I'll turn it back to Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for dialing in today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
We enter 2014 with lots of enthusiasm and today's call was a great summary of our accomplishments in 2013.
Our results have been solid and our teams are executing a 3-year plan that is focused on the right performance metrics.
Those metrics are liquids growth cash flow growth improved profitability and inventory expansion.
The achievement of these objectives will lead to improved debt-adjusted production and reserve growth metrics and lower leverage ratios and we intend to deliver.
This time we'll be happy to take your questions.
I'll turn it back to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
You've provided rates on SCOOP and STACK wells through 90 days now.
Is the range of results tight for the 90-day rates? That is do you observe outlying results beginning to appear either below or above? And if you could just talk to the kind of the flatness of the production profile across those 90 days for both the SCOOP and the STACK wells.
Dan I guess -- I think you have a couple of things going on here.
First we've talked about how we like to do the managed flowbacks and that's primarily an issue and a benefit down in our SCOOP area where we just managed to choke a little bit more effectively and we can manage that better.
As we move into the oil both in the STACK and the Eastern SCOOP typically these wells go on gas lift relatively early and your -- we're less effective in being able to manage that flowback.
Now that said recent activity in well results have strengthened where we're seeing these wells flow longer than what we historically have.
So I think as we accumulate more information over time you're going to see the back half of that come up.
The other thing I would suggest to you is as we get -- as we've managed the cluster spacing and improved upon that you will see generally improving data further out in the 60- to 90-day period as a result of these wells cumulating that kind of production time.
So it's both managing the data as well as improved practices being translated into -- through the 90-day period.
Got it great.
And as a follow-up can you sketch for us the midstream requirements in the SCOOP and the STACK plays over the next say 12 to 18 months? You touched on it in your prepared remarks.
I ask in light of the delay encountered with the gathering system and what that could mean for potential bottlenecks here going forward just in an effort to assess the risk that's all.
Yes I understand Dan.
In the South area it was purely a matter of the fact that our growth even surprised us in the success of some of the wells that we had down there.
What we did is -- we refer to it as gathering but it was actually some plant capacity issues and our ability to get the gas to those areas and get it processed.
We saw more capacity available to the North in the STACK area and it's interconnected.
We've been waiting on actually loose [ph] gas from SCOOP up in the area of STACK.
Now we have -- in our contract with DCP we provide for additional expansion as we have success and we'll continue to stay on top of that.
But we believe that this line that was recently added should remove any additional bottlenecks.
Now as we move up to STACK the biggest thing we got going there is the fact that it's primarily oil.
So the gas requirements are less and it's also in the vicinity of where most of the available production plant capacity is.
So I think we're set well.
We're going to actually take these to paper and contracts with some proposals that we're evaluating right now.
So before too long you ought to look for us to give you some more clarity on that actual contract.
And we'll go next to Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on the STACK.
What's the longest production history you have on your older wells out there? And how many wells are in the 90-day number? Longest -- I'll take that and Gary will give you some color on the number of wells but the longest producing well is the well that we drilled in the fourth quarter of 2011.
May or may not have heard us talk about it over the course of last year but the first well was not released publicly.
That was some of the earliest drilling that we did in the Anadarko Basin and that was related to our desire to build the acreage position that we now call STACK.
I think the total in the well count at 90 days is about 7.
7 wells in the carry-through to the 90-day rate all of which would be 10 000-foot laterals.
That first well was a 5 000-foot lateral and we used it to calibrate against expectations for the play.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and the spacing on the Upper Meramec have you tested 6 60 yet? Or is that something that you'll be doing in '14? No we haven't tested spacing yet.
Our focus as Gary indicated in his remarks is going to be on getting the HBP process rolling in terms of protecting that acreage so we've got a pretty solid plan there.
We do have some plan spacing pilots down on the loyal window of our SCOOP acreage so we'll be drilling some of those pilots this year.
We'll look to extrapolate that.
But the highest priority for our rigs in the north is getting the acreage HBP.
We'll keep you up-to-date as things develop there.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question.
So the lower Meramec test that you mentioned you'll be doing in 2Q I take it that'll be an acreage where you haven't drilled the upper Meramec initially just to hold the acreage? That would be correct.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Really just thinking about your SCOOP and STACK performance and really trying to get into some of the granularity of how much capacity you have in the North area in the South area with DCP.
And just thinking about the -- those wells they're delivering frankly just much much better results and so I can see a path where you're going to hit surface constraints as you ramp up.
And so can you walk us through how that happens through this year and next year? Because that's clearly driving the majority of your growth.
Yes Dave I mean I'll just refer back to the answer to the prior question.
I think we've -- we think we've resolved it down in SCOOP.
We'll -- we have planned compression additions I know that we're going to be adding over time so I think we're going to be good there.
And again in the STACK area it's less gas than in the South and it's an area where there's plenty of capacity.
So we're anticipating about a lot of our growth and we'll be trying to make sure that we de-bottleneck anything that could come at us.
Maybe how much were you constrained in the first quarter? A few hundred thousand barrels I think would be the [indiscernible].
4 500 barrels a day or so which we now have back online.
Cool that's helpful.
And then kind of looking at your other regions and then strategically how they fit in the company with basically flattening of production and more limited inventory.
Do you start thinking about divesting the Williston or divesting the Eagle Ford? How does that incorporate? Well Dave I'll go back to the comments and I think you've followed us close enough and we've been pretty open about our sales process and in terms of assets and how we've utilized that to make the transition transformation to a resource-play focus.
Total is about $3 billion.
We've still got China on the table.
That's our priority for 2014.
We've shown a desire over the -- and executed against that desire of our 2 nonstrategic assets exiting the portfolio but we have no plans to sell any of our other domestic asset portfolios.
We think that they play an important role in the 3-year plan.
Our focus is on China and we'll keep you posted should anything change as the year unfolds.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on kind of your Anadarko Basin acreage.
I guess you guys have got about 225 000 acres.
Just trying to get a sense of how much of that do you think has been sort of de-risked by the drill bit and then kind of any color that you would have in terms of I guess call it exploration versus sort of production drilling in 2014 there.
Yes.
So I guess on the first point 225 000 net acres that's about a 100 000-acre increase year-over-year.
A big chunk of that was the deal we announced in August that led to our announcement of the STACK play up in the North.
I would tell you that we're trucking along in SCOOP with regard to our drilling plans and I think that we're well on our way in terms of having that acreage protected and taken care of.
I don't have the exact count but I would guess you're probably approaching 50% of the way home there.
And we don't have any issues with regard to timing that are causing any issues of concern there.
I will say that in the North when we made the acquisition back in August we looked at the lease expirations associated with some of that acreage that we've been chasing for a couple of years and we went ahead and put the capital into extending those leases.
So with regard to the STACK play we've got plenty of time to just take care of that acreage and not feeling any stress in that regard today.
Go back to some of the investor publications that we put out here over the last couple of months on one of those were STACK.
You see a parallelogram that's about 150 square miles that have been de-risked.
And I think we've said in an earlier call that we thought we were somewhere around 40-ish percent on the acreage as being de-risked.
Obviously we're a fraction of that in terms of HBP potential.
But remember each 10 000-foot lateral protects 2 sections.
So I think those are the pieces that you need to be aware of and we'll keep you posted as the year unfolds.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess just with respect to your production guidance looking at first quarter of 2014 just seeing that you guys are kind of guiding down a little bit sequentially particularly on the oil.
Is that just a function of the midstream issues that you've had in the Anadarko Basin? Is there anything else of sort of going on with kind of well timing in 2014 here? No.
That's exactly it.
And again we're guiding to the midpoint that we originally put out last year.
And it would be important to note that because of that a lot of that interruption was in the SCOOP area.
It was affecting gas therefore it's mostly the impact of the NGLs in gas and not oil.
We'll go next to Dan Brasler [ph] with Jefferies.
I was wondering what you're expecting for Pearl proceeds? I know recently there have been a couple of transactions in Bohai Bay that imply maybe about a $200 million value to Newfield so just trying to get a -- your guys' view on the value for all of China specifically Pearl.
Yes Dan.
We're not giving guidance out right now on value expectations.
You'll see we'll release next -- later this week in our 10-K you'll see a $900 million PV10 number for China that's after tax.
We did see the Bohai Bay transaction that's an asset transaction.
What we're contemplating is a full exit.
It's a corporate transaction.
It's our sub and so the 2 things while related are actually quite different.
And we're hoping to get that done this year and we'll update you when we have better clarity both on installation and the process.
Okay great.
What is current production at Bohai Bay? Our first quarter production in Bohai will total about 150 000 barrels.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the composition in the SCOOP and STACK and kind of the conformity across the play can you talk a little bit about the wells you've drilled to date kind of the depth and the thickness of the areas that are targeted? And how that compares going forward? I'm guessing early on you're targeting the thickest areas but would love to get a sense of whether you've tested some of the center areas and is it showing the same sort of production responses? Yes.
I'll take that at a high level and if Gary's got anything to add Dave after my comments I'll let him jump in.
So certainly the -- we've put plenty of geology out in terms of the Anadarko Woodford East flank.
I think it's well-documented there's good well control.
Generally the Woodford is thinner in the North and also shallower depths than we have down in the southern portion of our SCOOP acreage.
So you do see a change running from north to south in terms of the depth of the target.
The far southern portion of the SCOOP acreage is the thickest observation with regard to the Woodford.
Up in the north you've got thicknesses that might approximate about 1/2 of that thickness that we see down in the South.
I would tell you that be careful with each individual horizon.
We go to STACK we're talking about a 700-foot thick oil-saturated window.
We've got Upper Meramec Lower Meramec Osage Woodford.
The important thing there is we've successfully tested and documented economic results in the upper horizon that would be the Upper Meramec; and the lower horizon which would be the Woodford and we've just got some tests to drill in between.
But we know there's oil we've got good core data and put the whole story together there.
So you'll see some variations of that.
But I think that across the acreage footprints that we have the thicknesses and the resource potential is well-understood well-documented and good well control.
I think those are the keys in terms of taking away.
It's not a lot of uncertainty from a geological standpoint in that regard.
The only thing I'd add to that Lee is as you said we've documented the overall thickness of the STACK to the North and the thickness of the Woodford to the south.
The area that has historically been talked about being a little thinner was North SCOOP so to speak.
And I think industry data there recently has supported some pretty darn good well results.
So we're now starting to see some of the thinner section still deliver competitive returns and that's good to see.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful and encouraging.
And then maybe switching over to the Central Basin Uinta area.
In the past you did a little rail when you got bottlenecked and built up storage levels with respect to being able to process through refiners.
As you look forward do you think about with success on the SXLs in those areas maybe accelerating rail? Or do you look at that more in terms of beyond 2016 and providing additional legs of growth at that juncture? Yes.
As we sit here right now the availability of rail is -- certainly still exists.
But we have the gas -- we have the oil contracts already in place that commit us to the levels through the end of 2016 and we need to make sure that we honor those contracts.
Anything beyond 2016 is certainly an opportunity but as we know those -- the rail contracts and those other refiners would require more material volume commitments and we would need to see the Central Basin well results more clarity on how those will produce over time before we could enter into those type of agreements.
It appears that there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Boothby I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well again I'd like to thank everybody for dialing in for today's call.
Thank you for your questions.
As you can tell we're excited and enthusiastic about the road ahead.
Our teams worked hard to put us in this position and I want to say thank you to everybody that's part of team Newfield in that regard.
We look forward to updating our continued progress as the year unfolds.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.