Good day everyone and welcome to the Newfield Exploration Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for a discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date.
Unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby please let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Newfield's Midyear Conference Call.
I'm looking forward to providing you with today's update.
Our transformation period is clearly behind us and there are great things happening throughout our company today.
We're seeing tangible benefits from our efforts over the last several years to focus our company on domestic U.S.
operations high-grade our asset base and strengthen our balance sheet.
We announced yesterday we entered into a contract to sell our Granite Wash assets for $588 million.
We expect the deal to close in the third quarter and we intend to use the proceeds of the sale for reduction of long-term debt.
Execution over the last 2 years has been very strong.
We're meeting or beating our estimates and delivering strategic objectives outlined in our 3-year plan.
We're confident that this plan will continue to create value for our stockholders.
We're delivering growth across our refined portfolio today and we're delivering results.
Our second quarter oil production averaged 50 000 barrels of oil per day and has increased 32% year-over-year.
Each of our 4 focus areas is exceeding our beginning-of-year expectations.
Two weeks ago we raised our 2014 guidance and raised the midpoint of our oil forecast above the upper end of our original guidance for the year.
Our oil production is now expected to grow 30% up from 24% in our original plan.
This momentum is expected to carry forward to 2015 and 2016 and our production and cash flow forecasts are biased higher.
Consistent with our normal process we will conduct our annual strategic planning in the fall and communicate our 2015/2016 outlook by early 2015.
Changes we expect to make will be accretive to our current outlook more balanced oil growth cash flow growth and our desire to continue strengthening our balance sheet over our 3-year outlook.
We've also added significant inventory to our portfolio by capturing liquids-rich resource plays of scale.
The Anadarko Basin the SCOOP and STACK plays provide more than a decade of running room and today's update in the Uinta Basin demonstrates the economic potential for another large-scale oil play for future development within Newfield's portfolio.
Our 3-year plan places us on the right course and strategically combines liquids growth -- or cash flow growth and yields-improving margins.
We're on a path towards balancing our annual investments with cash flow.
We continue our track record of strong double-digit liquids growth rates.
Our focus today remains on the execution of our 3-year plan.
We're not just managing our business for a good quarter or a single year.
We're managing Newfield to be a healthier and sustainable enterprise for the long term.
Our vision remains clear: to be the premier E&amp;P company consistently delivering top-tier results.
Achieving this status isn't easy and it doesn't happen overnight.
We feel obligated to do more than simply find and produce oil and gas for a profit.
Consistent with this belief we published our first corporate responsibility report last week detailing our safety culture our environmental stewardship and the hard work that our people do every day to improve life in and around the areas where we live and work.
I would encourage you to go online and give it a read.
I'm joined in today's call by our CFO Larry Massaro and our Chief Operating Officer Gary Packer.
Our remarks today will be largely focused on the significant progress we had made in the Uinta Basin.
We posted some slides on our @NFX publication and we will reference a couple of these later in the call.
Our agenda today consists of the following: first our CFO Larry Massaro will provide a brief summary of our second quarter financial and operating results; and second Gary Packer will cover our operating areas beginning with an overview of our Anadarko Basin and Williston Basin drilling programs and spending the remainder of our time on the Uinta Basin and the results of our recent SXL campaign.
Before I turn the call over to Larry let me mention why I see today's Uinta Basin update as very significant for our investors.
Over the last several years we've been tackling multiple challenges in the Uinta.
These have ranged from a lack of refining capacity market disruptions HBP acreage efforts and the inability to drill longer lateral wells due to the pre-existing regulations.
Today you will hear about the significant progress we have made to improve our returns and propel our Uinta Basin assets to compete at the front end of Newfield's portfolio.
For the first time we now have a sample of long lateral wells or SXLs approximately 10 000 feet to improve the significant productivity of the resource and give visibility to the true economic potential in the Uinta.
Seeing 2 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day IP rates and 100 000 barrels of production over the first 100 days is exciting and these results will compete with any oil resource play today.
Second we're applying our lessons learned around our company to lower well cost.
Drilling and optimizing completions are core competencies at Newfield.
We've demonstrated time and again that we can lower well costs and improve returns at our field-level operating teams.
Newfield's focused portfolio is more alike than different today.
Our Central Basin wells look similar to our wells in the Anadarko Basin or the Williston or the Eagle Ford for exploiting stacked pays through SXL wells in areas that offer multiple horizons for development.
We are confident in our ability to lower cost improve returns and deliver another high-return oil play with a deep inventory of development locations.
I'll leave some stuff that for Gary to cover later and I'll now turn the call over to Larry for our financial update.
Thanks Lee.
And good morning everyone.
Along with our guidance raise 2 weeks ago we also increased our capital investment outlook for 2014 by $100 million to $1.7 billion.
This increase reflects the increased pace of our drilling in several areas and the addition of new acreage in SCOOP and STACK.
In the second quarter we invested $473 million in our domestic businesses.
The second quarter production was 12.1 million barrels surpassing the midpoint of guidance by 1.1 million barrels.
Our domestic liquids production was up 13% over the prior quarter and 40% over the comparable quarter in 2013.
Our oil growth is driven's by the Anadarko Basin the Uinta Basin and the Williston Basin.
Our strong production growth led to a cash flow beat during the quarter and our cash flow per share exceeded First Call consensus and came in at $2.43 per share.
Our earnings during the quarter excluding the items listed in our release related to derivates in future periods were $59 million or $0.43 per share.
As we noted 2 weeks ago our G&amp;A expense was about $15 million higher than guidance due to stock-based compensation which was driven by the increase in our share price during the quarter.
Other than G&amp;A our cash costs on a unit-of-production basis were in line or better than our quarterly guidance estimates.
China our discontinued operation provided about 40 000 barrels during the quarter.
You may notice that our full year expectation for LOE is up.
This is related to higher transportation expense and reflects our new processing agreements and our growing wet gas volumes.
On a unit-of-production basis we will be virtually unchanged throughout the year.
The slight increase in the second half LOE should be offset by higher realized prices for our sales volumes.
As Lee mentioned we signed an agreement Monday to sell our Granite Wash assets.
The effective date of this transaction will be July 1 2014.
Current production from these assets is approximately 65 million cubic feet per day equivalent of which about 60% is natural gas.
Year-end 2013 net reserves were approximately 38 million barrels of oil equivalent.
The transaction is expected to close in September and we intend to use the proceeds to call and retire our $600 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2018.
This will reduce our long-term debt to under $2.6 billion and lowers our debt-to-EBITDA by approximately $2 billion to $1.5 billion.
As I articulated before we believe that managing growth and balance sheet strength need to go hand-in-hand.
We will adjust our full year production estimates for the sale of our Granite Wash assets at closing which is expected toward the end of the third quarter.
Let me quickly update you on the sales process for our China business.
We've completed our underwater repairs to the jacket and are finalizing above-water repairs today.
We recently loaded our topside facilities on the installation barge and our plan is to find a suitable weather window to install the topside over the next month.
This will keep us on schedule for first oil production in the fourth quarter and 40 000 barrels a day of gross well from Pearl in late 2014 or early 2015.
We continue to work with our bid group on the planned sale of our China business and anticipate a resolution later this year.
We will keep you informed as more information is known.
I'll turn it over to Gary now for operations update.
Gary? Thanks Larry.
I'll start today in the Anadarko Basin.
SCOOP and STACK are very active today with over 40 rigs running.
The wells continued to perform extremely well.
We are seeing improvements in drilling costs.
We are now in full development in SCOOP South at optimal well spacing.
We now have about 85 000 net acres in SCOOP following the recent acreage additions.
Our production in the Anadarko Basin is more than 40 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up more than 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day over our first year average.
With strong performance and execution we were able to make up our first quarter volume shortfall that resulted from infrastructure constraints and our 2014 growth forecasts are also increased.
SCOOP South our wells continued to perform above play average type curves.
In @NFX we updated the SCOOP Wet Gas results to reflect a new 5-well Yandell development plan.
These were XL wells with impressive production performance.
These wells had 30-day average production of nearly 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 730 barrels of oil equivalent per day after 90 days and these wells had an average oil cut of 41% over their first 90 days.
In addition we updated 30- 60- and 90-day production averages for our SCOOP Wet Gas SXLs.
These wells are still averaging 1 550 barrels of oil equivalent per day after 90 days.
Activity levels are increasing in North SCOOP which constitutes nearly half of our total SCOOP acreage.
We are drilling our first operated wells in north SCOOP today and own interest in about a dozen other outside-operated wells recently drilled in the area.
There are now 10 rigs running in north SCOOP of which 2 are Newfield operated.
We are encouraged with the results seen to date and look forward to sharing our operated results with you later this year.
We are on track to exceed our original production expectations for the year and are working closely with our midstream service provider to ensure the timely completion of planned gas compression updates throughout the balance of this year.
Let's move on to STACK where our efforts are focused on a few key objectives.
First drilling wells to hold acreage by production.
We're planning to drill about 200 SXL wells over the next several years to hold our position.
Second we are testing multiple geologic objectives including Upper and Lower Meramec and the Woodford.
These assessment efforts were balanced with our need to control acreage.
Third we are gathering valuable information on well spacing that will help us design the most efficient and profitable future development plan for this area.
We updated our well performance against the type curves for STACK in today's @NFX.
Longer term well performance on 7 wells in the 200 to 300-day time period you can see an uplift in projected performance and actual performance.
We have several new wells that are completing or recently completed and moving toward 30 days of production and expect to have an update for you later this fall.
We remain very encouraged with our oil production rates and how our gas-oil ratio is holding up over an extended period of time.
This studies a subset of more than 3 000 wells drilled in the area and our estimates for commodity split in our EURs appear to be very sound.
We are also seeing efficiency gains in drilling and completions.
We now project that we will drill 6 additional STACK wells in 2014 continuing to de-risk our play.
Increased well count is due to the efficiency improvements and refinement of our drilling programs.
As I previously mentioned we expect to have about half a dozen new STACK wells with 60- and 90-day rates in the third quarter and look forward to updating you then.
On to the Williston Basin and let me make a couple of quick remarks before jumping into the Uinta.
The Williston team has done a fantastic job continuing to lower well cost and executing in this high-return development play.
Year-to-date our 10 000-foot SXLs were drilled and completed for an average of $7.9 million including facilities.
This is down another $600 000 from our update in the first quarter.
Due to the drilling efficiencies and reduced time from rig release to first sales we expect to add another 8 wells into this year's capital program.
The second quarter production averaged more than 18 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We are on track to grow our Williston production about 40% this year.
I will focus the remainder of today's call on the Uinta Basin.
Year-to-date our production in the Uinta Basin is running ahead of forecast primarily due to the improved production profile from our SXL wells in the Central Basin.
Our second quarter net Uinta production averaged 26 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Let me provide a summary of key points today to help you understand why we are encouraged and how we intend to advance our learning curve to make these plays large-scale economic developments.
First the Uinta Basin offers us significant resource and a deep inventory of oil projects.
Furthermore we control it with high working interest and great access to service providers.
You hear us frequently refer to the Uinta Basin as a foundational asset.
The backbone of this asset is the giant Monument Butte waterflood but today's excitement is centered on the Central Basin and the recent results in our Uteland Butte and Wasatch horizontal plays.
Second we are very encouraged by the recent production performance from our SXLs in the Central Basin.
In today's @NFX you will find a summary of these results plotted against our type curves.
We are seeing strong early results over the 30- 60- and 90-day periods.
The third point is well documented through our actions.
We are committed to allocating our capital to the highest returns in our portfolio.
Our results today in the Uinta Basin demonstrate that these new plays will compete for future capital.
Our current SXLs are delivering returns of about 30% today.
We are actively advancing our learning curves to further improve profitability as we transition these plays to development.
Fourth we feel as a proven operator in the Uinta Basin -- we've been in the basin since 2004 and over the last decade have established a great track record in operating safely creating drilling and operational efficiencies and being a partner of choice with land owners and federal agencies and the Ute Tribe.
And lastly Uinta crude is a valuable feedstock with refining markets expanding in the Salt Lake City area as well as other new markets.
In addition recent new entrants are helping expedite rail transport and we believe that increasing competition for this oil will help improve our future realized prices.
A cross-section of the Uinta Basin can be found on Slide 7 in @NFX.
This places our Green River formation in context with our deeper horizontal plays in the North and the Central Basin.
We are today targeting the geopressured section in the Uteland Butte and the Wasatch.
This constitutes more than 1 400 feet of hydrocarbon column.
Yesterday we released results from our new SXL wells and plotted them against our previously published type curves.
On Slide 9 we detail our SXL program in the Central Basin.
Our recent 5 SXL wells had an average gross IP rate of about 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and support our previously generated type-curve estimates.
We have plotted our recent wells against the type curves on pages 10 and 11.
Our well performance has been strong as seen on the 30- 60- and 90-day rates.
There's always a lot of interest in type curve performance so let me address this now.
In both the Uteland butte and the Wasatch we generated these projections over a year ago based on our early short XL well results.
In both cases we used a 2x scaling factor on those range of outcomes to project impact to the longer SXL wells.
It appears that this has been sound and we are very encouraged with the early results which generated 30% returns at early assessment well costs and are on a path for meaningful improvement.
Recall that these geopressured reservoirs -- that these are geopressured reservoirs and therefore do not require gas lift for well over 120 days.
Also remember we practice controlled flowback more consistently today than when the early SXLs that we used to develop our projections were produced.
On Page 13 we detail how our recent SXL wells in the Central Basin stack up against other high-potential developments in Newfield's portfolio.
As you can see on a 90-day cumulative production basis or on a revenue basis our SXL wells in the Uinta Basin compare very favorably to SCOOP our highest return play and surpass other well-known plays like the Williston Basin.
We are making critical advancements in 2 areas: increasing the productive capacity of our wells through longer laterals and improved completion and therefore lowering finding and development costs to improve returns.
Today we have seen improvement in our Uteland Butte play.
As you can see on Page 12 the time from spud to rig release has consistently decreased from 45 days to our recent best-in-class well of 31 days.
Costs on these recent wells are projected to be about $11.2 million and this is in line with our previous development range of $10.12 million for development in Uteland Butte.
From a return perspective we estimate that an 800 000-barrel Uteland Butte well drilled for less than $11 million will generate a rate of return of more than 45%.
As Lee said this play can and will compete in our portfolio.
In the Wasatch we have a more limited data set today to discuss with you but equally as exciting.
We plan to drill some additional wells through the balance of this year and we will use this information to determine our best path forward.
Production results from the Wasatch have equally been very strong.
However our well costs still remain at the high end of our $13 million to $15 million development forecast.
The resource provides ample encouragement to advance this program and we intend to apply the Uteland Butte learnings to the Wasatch and we'll keep you updated on our progress.
I'll turn this back to Lee for his closing comments.
Thanks Gary.
Thanks to all of you for dialing in today.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
You can tell from today's update that we are highly encouraged with our progress year-to-date.
As I said in my earlier remarks I'm extremely encouraged with our progress in the Central Basin and its position within our portfolio.
The results of our SXL wells are very strong and demonstrate the economic potential of the Uinta Basin.
Our Central Basin plays will add another large-scale oil play with decades of drilling inventory.
We're confident in our operating teams and we'll look to them to advance learnings curves to lower fining and development costs and improve our profitability and returns.
And we'll continue to share our progress as -- with you as we go.
In closing we remain focused on execution and delivering on our 3-year plan.
This plan combines liquids growth cash flow growth and improving margins and profitability.
Our transaction today to sell the Granite Wash goes a long way to improving the balance sheet and demonstrates our dedication to constantly high-grading our asset portfolio.
At this time we're happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the super extended laterals.
The Wasatch it appears to be performing on its -- it's just a few data points.
They're not necessarily a good statistical sampling but the Wasatch is underperforming the Uteland Butte.
Any geological reasons why that -- why you might predict that to hold true going forward? I would actually say Joe that I don't see it as underperforming.
I think the reference that you're making is when you look at Slide 10 that Gary talked about the Uteland Butte the 2 wells are shown quite above the top end of the range that we published back in December in terms of talking about our expectations from the play as we moved into drilling SXLs.
Including outperforming the type curves.
When you look closely at the Wasatch data you'll find out that the well on the bottom down there is tracking the 800 000 BOE curve.
That's the low end of the range for the Wasatch.
And the green well is tracking along the upper end of the range.
So when you put it all together the SXL wells in this data set are delivering an outcome in excess of 800 000 BOE per well and they've got incredibly strong early production which drives returns.
So I think that watching the type curves and looking at them well you made a good point.
Early on with a few data points you're going to see some noise.
But trust me we're very very encouraged with what we see here and there's a lot of data behind this.
And it reminds me a lot of the early discussions on STACK when we had to lay down on the type curve there.
Now we haven't laid down on our type curve that we've forecast.
That tells us that our technical teams are getting it right.
So we're excited.
Research Division</strong> No I mean clearly -- you have clearly great wells.
And so do you expect any differences between the 2? Or at this point now you geologically you expect them to perform about the same? Well I mean they're a little bit different geologically.
I mean we'd probably give you some color later this year or early next year when we update the portfolio.
But as far as production performance they're both in the same geopressured window and we've seen incredibly high productivity rates out of the wells.
So we'll probably see some well-to-well variability as we continue to drill across the acreage.
But if you look at the map in the handout I think the area that Gary and the teams have tested are probably some 14 15 miles east-west and 5 6 miles north-south.
So we've got a pretty big area that we've got this data set developing in now and it's a 1 400-foot section.
So Gary's comment on the Wasatch we've got more to do there because there's 1 200 feet of Wasatch section.
We have more data in the Uteland Butte as we drilled most of the early wells there to drive the learning curve.
So we're just farther along in the Uteland Butte but I expect both of them to be competitive.
We'll go next to Brian Singer at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> How should we think about the Central Basin's success in the context of capital spending and production growth from the Uinta? In other words should we expect that you will spend less money than you planned and still meet your guidance? Spend the same amount of money and produce at higher levels? Spend more money and spend -- and produce at much higher levels? Or just you've got a greater inventory where you can maintain a rate of growth for a longer period of time? I think Brian the way I would look at it in the short term I think we've ended it.
Over the course of the last couple of years clearly the productivity that we're seeing out of these wells allows us to drive better production with lower capital input.
So that's the capital efficiency that Gary talked about.
So in the short term that's a great option inside of the portfolio.
When you look at the broader context of what's going on in the Uinta Basin and the positives in terms of 20 -- positives in terms of the entrants into the basin and driving volumes out of the basin on rail you're seeing some competitive movement there that we think is going to translate to improved margins.
So that will help with the returns.
At that point as we go through the planning process later this year or early next year we're going to give a hard look to what's the optimal capital allocation into the Uinta Basin how we're competing where are we on the learning curves.
I think as Gary told you the first half dozen wells generating 30-plus percent rates of return sounds a lot like the STACK story that we told a year ago.
So we're very excited.
I think this is a material positive improvement and it's going to provide other options.
As competition for the crude grows inside and outside the basin and people become cognizant of the magnitude of this resource -- which in Newfield's 230 000-acre footprint we've got over 1 billion barrels net to Newfield recoverable resource exciting stuff.
So when you start thinking about that translating I think out beyond the 2015/2016 time frame we're probably look to drive incremental growth out of the Uinta.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like based on your comments on the refinery expansion say on the rail that you've got confidence that that's coming.
Is there a specific time where it all kind of -- where you reach critical mass from a takeaway perspective? Or is it just incremental per year? I'll let Larry and Gary give you some color because they're both involved.
Yes as far as -- I mean we'll see a significant ramp-up in the HollyFrontier refining capacity starting in late 2015 and that will continue through 2016.
We've layered in a third contract in there and that's bringing our volumes up to 41 000 and -- I think a little over 41 000 barrels a day or so.
But I'm excited about and I think Lee alluded to it earlier with the increased use of rail coming out of the basin I think that's really a game changer for us.
And as we see these results and returns continually to improve I think there's going to be opportunities for us to reach beyond that and access some of that rail market and really drive some incremental volumes.
We'll go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a little bit more color in terms of the Uinta.
You talked about how you guys were targeting the geopressured zones in the Uteland Butte as well as the Wasatch.
I'm just curious is this formation -- are these 2 formations pretty much geopressured across the whole Central Basin? And how do you guys think about prospectivity for these formations? You talked about an area that was I guess roughly 15 by 6 miles or whatever.
But do you think potentially this extends kind of well beyond that? Maybe talk to how you get to that 1 billion BOE of kind of recoverables.
Yes really it was reference to the Uinta Basin and that will be more fairly -- fully updated later in the year.
How you should think about the geopressured section is we have about 70 000 acres in that area that's defined in the @NFX and that entire area is geopressured.
Others have pursued the Uteland Butte elsewhere but that was in the normally pressured section quite a ways to the west.
So you ought to think about that entire section as being defined as that geopressured window which runs about 0.75 psi per foot.
And that really explains some of that early strong productivity you see in the type curves.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And I guess just jumping over to some of the asset sales.
Obviously you guys have sold the Granite Wash.
You're working on China.
And now that with Granite Wash how should we think about use of proceeds for a China sale here? It certainly seems as though you guys have a lot of capital coming in the door here in the next year.
Yes so China has been earmarked to cover the deficit that we have going into next year.
And so once we get China resolved you'll see us pay down the debts that they were now building.
And so that was always the plan for it and we'll be consistent with that.
We'll go next to Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Great results in the Uinta.
I guess the increase in the HollyFrontier refining capacity sort of explains the pickup in the volumes you anticipate in 2016.
But given the results of improved market leave recently with the recent well results and that that transportation was sort of -- agreement was sort of set up a couple of years ago if I recall you must be pretty aggressively looking for the ability to expand.
So how do you sort of see your eagerness to expand that capacity? As well as how do you expect capital spending to ramp up in that region to meet that increased commitment? Well clearly the capacity is going to be out there for us.
At the end of the day it all comes down to the capital allocation.
That's really going to be part of our -- the planning process that we previously mentioned in 2015 and 2016 although we've already confirmed through our own behaviors last year in moving to 300 barrels out and what we believe is a substantial volume leaving the basin today via rail that the market exists.
So that's not something we need to explore.
And we think it ought to ultimately over the long term capture a higher commodity pricing.
So while we're quite interested in that again it comes back to a capital allocation decision.
And we're going to just invest in those returns that are the highest within the portfolio.
And Gil I'll pick up on your reference to a couple of years ago.
You're correct those refining agreements were virtually signed late '11 early '12 and it was 20 000 barrels a day of incremental capacity in Salt Lake City.
And what we said at that time we signed those agreements they allow us to underpin our forward planning to prove the resource drive down the learning curve and get this resource recognized to where it could compete against other crudes.
So I think we're well along that path.
I think the fact that we signed all of that capacity up.
Part 2 of that was other industry players as they start talking about growth needed to pursue other alternatives.
And we're very careful to say that we had all we needed at least through 2015 and 2016 and they've come in the other entrants and they're driving the market and driving the rail.
So I think you're seeing all the pieces come together now.
We're really happy to have the new entrants.
I think they're adding to the vitality in the basin.
And these well results this is a 3-year odyssey getting to this point.
So we're very very excited.
And I can assure you to Gary's point these projects competing at the front end of the line they're going to draw capital.
We'll go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just on -- sort of shifting gears to Anadarko Basin here.
As you get more production history for the STACK on the 11 operated wells you've got do you feel like it's outperforming your initial expectations in terms of oil cuts? I think you touched earlier about the GOR staying relatively flat kind of over time.
So can you just kind of help us think about how GOR will change throughout the life of the well based on what you know today and how that kind of fits into your 40% oil cut that you have for the life of the well in your type curve? Yes Michael.
I mean the wells are performing as we originally had predicted.
And as far as the GOR I mean I think one of the keys to how the wells are continuing to hang in there is in fact that we've seen good stability in the GORs over time.
As I alluded in my prepared comments the wells that we've -- we have identified all the wells that have produced from that Meramac STACK section across that entire area.
And when you actually look at the GOR performance on those wells they come out -- and even as far as 10 and 15 years out in the future they're still producing at 6 000 and 8 000 GOR.
So this is -- while many have had concerns that a lot of these oil reservoirs will come out and produce -- kind of blow down and produce basically dead oil that's not what the data has kind of supported.
And this is over -- the data we have actually looks out as far as 10 and 15 years.
And I think that some of the key to the strong production we're seeing and how -- the flattening of the curve that you see out there.
Yes and I would say just to add into the other part -- I think Part 2 of your question which I was buried up in the early part of the question performance.
The STACK play has been in line with our expectations in line with the published type curves.
So we're very excited about what we're seeing and the fact that we're now looking at data that's 2-plus years long on horizontal wells to go with the 15-plus years that Gary was talking about in the vertical wells it looks like everything is holding together very very well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I appreciate the color on that.
And then just one last question would be can you talk about the uplift that you're seeing from a reduced cluster spacing and any upsized profit? And kind of what you're -- what any plans you have on that front are going forward to kind of tweak the design on the completion? Specifically you're talking about STACK I take it Michael? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Yes it's something that we're always continuing to tweak.
I think we upsized our completions there.
There's been a lot of discussion we've seen in the basin from comments from some of the other operators that we've seen out there that have suggested that the upside completions are appropriate.
And those other operators are basically stimulating their plants with completion practices very similar to what we've adopted.
We got down as tight as some of the more recent wells so a 50-foot cluster spacing and we've seen good response from that.
I don't know where it will ultimately shake out.
At this early stage we'll continue to watch that.
But one of the things that I think is important just to see that we're getting this right is when you see those -- as we add in those 60- and 90-day numbers out in the future you're seeing the actuals actually slide up high relative to the type curve and get continually flatter.
And I think that's an important mark the tighter spacing.
And I think where you -- we have anywhere between 32 and 35 stages is feeling about right.
We'll go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in the Central Basin you guys talk about having 1 200 feet of prospective play in that geopressured area.
And I guess with more specifically the Uteland Butte having 100 to 200.
How do you think about landing laterals and the process of figuring out how to optimize performance of the wells that you land those laterals? Yes it's a good question Dave.
And a lot of that has already started even though we don't have a lot of SXL data.
Recall that we do have XL data out there that we've utilized.
At a high level the Uteland Butte's a carbonate.
It's a dolomite.
And we've already changed our landing zone and we've seen the reason for some of the more recent overperformance or strong performance in the Uteland Butte.
We attribute it to that changing your landing zones within that rather narrow section.
Now as we think about the Wasatch and the fact that it's 1 200 foot we have already -- and if you'll refer to the slide that in the @NFX there's a series of red stars.
And what those illustrate for you is is that we've actually tested 3 different sections within the Wasatch which is actually a sand and all 3 of those are -- have been very productive.
So while we have a lot more work to do as far as producing and drilling across the acreage we have in the very early days tested across that entire 1 200 foot successfully.
And Dave remember we had 50 vertical wells that we drilled out here that had on average 6 completions through the Wasatch interval.
So we've got copious amounts of data across the acreage footprint that -- we've got Mobil Oil good strong vertical inflow.
So it's not a mystery in terms of thinking about how much oil is there and I think we just need to knock down some additional tests and -- in the layers as we work through the section and continue to broaden the footprint on the SXLs in the Wasatch just a thicker interval.
But everything is positive at this point.
Research Division</strong> Sure -- no I appreciate that.
I guess where I was going with it is kind of what the possibility is on a longer term basis for stacked laterals in the play.
Yes clearly that's what it's going to be all about.
We've actually already done some of that already.
We've done some early pilots that are kind of in the weeds as far as what we're talking about today.
But we've already done some stacked pilots in the section between a couple of the horizons and it really got some great learnings from that that we'll be able to share more fully when we get on the road to see it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that.
A follow-up would be just when you think about what you're doing in the Central Basin how are you utilizing restricted chokes at this point? Are you or are you not? Obviously you've had success doing that in the STACK and the SCOOP.
Just thinking about how that rolls over.
Rigorously using the controlled flowback techniques.
It's most notably seen and I've referred to that previously in the call in the Wasatch production -- I mean early days we're using XL wells before we were really utilizing controlled flow and that's what these early type curves were generated from.
In the advent of using those you can see that we're producing a flatter more extended early data.
Specifically in the Wasatch but we're doing the same thing in the Uteland Butte.
And when you actually look at the cumulative production over time versus that type curve we're right on or ahead of where we wanted to be.
And we think that's a real key probably even more importantly Dave in the geopressured reservoirs to try to maintain and track that reservoir energy that we have in the rock versus producing it more aggressively early days.
So Dave to give you a feel early days in these wells when they're flowing back the teams were seeing flowing pressures in excess of 3 000 psi.
So if you wanted a flashy 24 hour IP rate we can give it to you.
North of 3 000 psi wouldn't be a problem at all.
We've really bought in the controlled flowback managing the drawdown early days in the completion phase is an optimization issue and we're doing it across the portfolio.
We're continuing to do it.
But very very strong wells.
We'll go next to Dan Braziller with Jefferie.
Research Division</strong> Some concerns I've heard regarding the STACK specifically that it might be more of a conventional play than a shale play.
I'm just wondering how you guys respond to that.
And if you can quantify shale composition in STACK versus SCOOP? And then along with that what do you need to see in the STACK before you're comfortable accelerating development here? Possibly from the asset sale proceeds rather than using those to improve the balance sheet? Well I'll take the first one and then I'll let Gary talk about -- Gary and Larry talk about what they're thinking in terms of optimization in allocation.
The easiest piece of data I can give you to let you know that whoever you're talking to about the Meramec doesn't know anything about the Meramec is that we had to go to the state of Oklahoma and provide a core sample to get it classified as a shale.
The state of Oklahoma which dictates these things has classified it as a shale.
We've provided core data indicative of that.
And therefore the conversation about conventional and not shale I mean depends on where you go in the play.
But the area we're developing it's a shale.
We wouldn't be able to drill the 1 280-acre spacing units in Oklahoma if it weren't shale.
Okay? So I'll let part 2 to go to Gary and Larry.
Larry? Yes I would say that if your question was would we accelerate any of these resource plays like the STACK with additional asset sales you saw that we sold the Granite Wash and that's creating lots of financial flexibility for the company.
With China on the horizon that's additional flexibility depending on the proceeds we'll get.
And so I see that the -- as the play gets de-risked we will evaluate every option to accelerate.
And I think the moves we've made has prepared our company for the balance sheet to pursue any of those things.
We'll go next to Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe going back to Uinta.
Any kind of color around what's the oil in place for the Wasatch in the Uteland Butte? We're not ready to release that.
Are you talking about on a per-section basis? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes indeed.
Indeed.
Let us pull all the rest of the technical data we gather between now and the end of the year and we'll find the right place and time to put more of that information out.
But it's very large.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And looking at the type curve I'm just trying to figure out how to compare.
So in the type curve did you say earlier that managed flow was not going to be reflected in that? And then also in the type curve again to make the actuals kind of be more comparable how was artificial lift kind of brought in? Is that at the beginning? Or kind of same place where you have it today? Yes.
Well first of all and I think Lee alluded to this earlier we had about a dozen or so Uteland Butte normally -- or a dozen or so Uteland Butte XL wells.
And in a later time there we had been practicing controlled flowback and those are reflected in the type curves that were generated and so forth.
In the Uteland when I look at the Wasatch we only had a handful of wells that were drilled there.
And that use of controlled flowback at the time those XL wells were drilled and therefore when the type curves were generated didn't fully incorporate that.
So that's really the difference there.
Now as far as the timing of our artificial lift as you might have imagined Rehan the early XL wells had gas lift installed typically at about 2 months which is very long and extended versus many of these resource plays that require it very early on.
Because we're drilling the longer laterals we anticipated that it would take a little longer for it to require artificial lift.
So this is all pretty much reflected in these numbers.
Whether it was 90 or 120 days in the original plan I don't know but I suspect we're going to -- as we continue to refine our targeting we'll probably see the time that these things require to go on artificial lift be extended.
And also Rehan Gary made a point earlier just to reiterate.
The Central Basin acreage Uteland Butte/Wasatch is pretty hard pressure.
You're talking 0.75 0.8 psi per foot.
So it's anomalous relative to most of the plays you're talking about.
We want to be very very careful on this overpressured environment that we manage the wells the right way.
So we'll learn more.
As we get some more wells on line we'll continue to optimize.
But I -- if you look at the 30- 60- 90-day rates that's a pretty strong indication.
We've given all the data in there.
The consistency between the wells 5 wells averaging north of 2 000 BOE per day 24 hour IP strong performance out past the 90 days flowing on their own.
Those are all good ingredients and we like the play for those reasons.
We'll go next to David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> As I think about the Granite Wash sale and it was a core asset several years ago.
And now looking at the evolution of the company with the Uinta large resource and a lot of interval stack in the same situation how do you first think about the Williston and your Maverick or Eagle Ford assets as core areas beyond the original 3-year plan? Well I think firstly you're right on all counts.
I mean Granite Wash assets are a hugely important positive asset for the company.
I mean it was part of our early efforts into the unconventional space.
It's a great asset.
We haven't drilled any wells there in 3 years.
So it's been on decline.
We've been fighting that decline to overcome the decline.
When we look at our portfolio the opportunities are evolving.
The depth and the quality are such that as much as I love that asset -- and I was there and helped build it right? Not being able to see in a time frame that makes any sense to any of us the ability to go back there and think about drilling wells it just makes sense to monetize it at attractive price put it in the hands of somebody that might have a different view or a different need take the proceeds and apply them constructively to the balance sheet and just continue to strengthen the company.
I mean this is not a 2014 event.
This has been a 3- or 4-year effort to get to this point.
We like where we're at and I think every step that we're taking makes us a little stronger and puts us in a better position to have multiple options to optimize.
So I think on that front I'll miss the Granite Wash I really will but I think we got a really really attractive price.
As far as the Williston and the Eagle Ford most of our portfolio is dominated by oil.
They're generating attractive returns.
They're in full development mode.
They play an important role and a constructive role in the 3-year planning horizon.
Williston Basin as a team continues to drive costs down the inventory expands.
We like that.
And our team has done some good work along the Gulf coast in terms of expanding some of our inventory under the old Fashing fields.
So we've got not just the Eagle Ford now and the Maverick we've got some Gulf Coast Eagle Ford that's getting mixed in there as well.
So I think all of that fits well with what we're doing and we're actually using the learnings in development mode to apply to the earlier assessment plays like STACK in the Central Basin.
We're taking the learnings out of those plays and applying them.
So I think they all fit together.
And most importantly Eagle Ford and Williston Basin are free cash flow-positive in terms of where they're at in the cycle.
So they just -- they fit with what we're doing and they're core and central to our liquids strategy and fit well in the 3-year plan.
LLC</strong> Just to sure the Gulf Coast Eagle Ford that's the first time I've heard that phrase.
Is that the equivalent of the Upper Eagle Ford or Lower Austin Chalk Eagle Ford combo? It's just a new name for the same thing? It's a small acreage footprint that we have in our old Fashing field.
You may recall we sold the shallow rights there some years ago.
We retained the Eagle Ford.
I'm just letting you know that it's part of the overall mix there.
It's not a large footprint.
It's something constructive that the team has done to add value.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in the STACK how many zones do you expect to be developing as you head forward and test? I'd love to give you the absolute final answer but we're -- as Gary indicated earlier in the call we're too early to know the answer.
I know that we've tested successfully 3 different horizons in the 700-foot intervals but I'm guessing that it'll be 3 to 5.
It depends on how close you can get in vertical dimension.
And we haven't done anything there to really work on the 3-dimensional spacing problem.
But I think we've got it in spades in terms of an issue that we need to work in the Uinta Basin.
We're working it in STACK.
And it's just something that we'll keep you guys appraised of as we look forward over the next 2 or 3 years.
Our priority in STACK is HBP.
Those 200 wells that Gary was talking about protect 400 sections.
So when you think about the acreage footprint it's a big deal average working interest north of 60%.
We want to take care of that acreage.
It's our first priority.
So that's our focus.
We have time for 2 more questions.
We'll go next to Phillip Pennell with Mariner Investment Group.
Yes Lee on the point that you just mentioned in terms of HBP.
From a cost standpoint how much additional benefit do you get from SXL as opposed to shorter laterals? Just in terms of derisking held-by-production in that play.
I'll give you my answer and then I'll let Gary give you some additional color since he's obviously on the ground.
I mean I think that we've proved to ourselves the most sufficient well to drill is the SXL well.
We've proved it in each one of the plays the we're operating in.
When you look at the drill times in a lateral protecting 2 sections with 1 well as opposed to drilling 2 wells we'll take the longer lateral everywhere that we can drill it.
Now is there an economic outcome with drilling short laterals? Absolutely.
As we move down the well curve there'll probably be some areas that we and others will drill at 5 000 feet.
But our preference is to drill 10 000-foot laterals everywhere that we can.
I have nothing to add Lee.
I think that's the plan.
It makes sense to us to hold the acreage as quickly as we can.
Okay.
So everything in terms of what you're trying to accomplish that make sense.
In terms of the Granite Wash what was the -- of the 40% liquids cut what was the mix of NGL in that? I think if I'm remembering the condensate volumes on a daily basis were just inside of 1 500 barrels and the balance is in NGLs.
And we'll go take our last question today from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> Returning quickly to the issue of lateral length I mean I'm just curious if you could add a little bit of color as to why the Yandell development was done on an XL instead of an SXL.
And what's kind of the go-forward plan on SCOOP and STACK with regards to trying to increase the percentage of laterals drilled in the SXL rather than the XL? I'll let Gary take that one.
Yes it's 2 different things Jeffrey.
One as you move to the west in certain areas we get deeper and that's going to limit the lateral length that we can drill just operationally.
So you ought to be thinking about wells on a combined basis are going to be between 21 000 and maybe 22 000 feet overall.
So as I get -- drill deeper the laterals get shorter.
We would drill 10 000-foot laterals at every opportunity.
But in some cases we also won't own the offset sections to complete the DSU.
I think our Gregory pad that we drilled last year was also an example of where we have extraordinary production from an XL well that's benefited from all these learnings that we've had.
So we're not going to blink and deviate from the SXL plan and the only places that we'll drill are in those cases that I just defined.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So just to quickly paraphase what you said if we see an XL where -- it's either as a result of a geology or blocking up the acreage.
But otherwise it's going to be SXLs? Well said.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I guess my other question was with regard to capital allocation.
You highlighted in the press release that the Anadarko Basin is currently getting about 45% of CapEx.
And I was just wondering going forward is this going to level off as some of the other plays like the Uinta ramp-up? Or can it still hold as a percentage or maybe even gain in percentage as the STACK drilling begins to increase? Well I've listened to Gary answer the variations to this question for most of the last couple of years.
And he points out that we've been drilling in the Anadarko Basin SCOOP and STACK plays now for about 3 years and we've been accelerating since the day we started.
So first year was $300 million spend and then $500 million and then $700 million.
So we have been accelerating.
I would expect that the returns continue to be competitive that we'll continue to push capital in that direction.
Our focus again to the 3-year plan is getting back to where our cash flow from operations and CapEx are in balance.
Beyond that it's an optimization game.
And I think that having multiple options in the portfolio you have SCOOP STACK and the Uinta Basin to drill high-return.
Oil wells is a high-class problem.
And I think that we're pretty doggone excited about that.
When you think about the Uinta and the focus today in the call it's a bit like the movie Field of Dreams.
If you build it they will come.
And that's what we've done.
So there's a bright bright future ahead and these assets are going to be core and central to Newfield for a long long time.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I'd just like to thank everybody for dialing in today.
I hope you can tell that we're both excited and confident.
I want to compliment our think teams on extraordinarily top-flight work that they've been doing to deliver results across the portfolio.
We look forward to continuing to update you on our progress the rest of the year and more goods news to come.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This will conclude today's conference.