Good day everyone and welcome to Newfield Exploration's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to the Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby let me provide a housekeeping request.
[Operator Instructions] Now Mr.
Lee Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining our third quarter conference call.
It's hard to believe that 2014 is nearly behind us.
This has certainly been a great year for Newfield and our operational momentum will carry us into 2015.
Newfield posted another solid quarter and we've continued our solid track record of execution across the company.
Our third quarter production was 500 000 barrels above our guidance midpoint and our full year production is now navigating to the high end of our production guidance.
As you can see at @NFX we again raised our expectations for production from our 4-key focus areas.
We're delivering on our 3-year plan which combines strong liquids growth cash flow growth and balances our annual investment levels with cash flow in 2016.
The last 8 weeks in the energy markets have been brutal.
We were all reminded that oil is still a commodity and resets and equity valuations can rapidly occur.
Cycles are an inevitable part of our business.
And after more than 1/4 century Newfield has certainly navigated through several commodity cycles.
We have a proven track record in making sound business decisions and we have a deeper portfolio of opportunities today than ever before.
We have a strong hedge position and we have options.
And that places us in a very good position today.
Over the last month we've been evaluating a range of oil price planning scenarios and testing the economic sensitivities around our investment programs.
Although we don't plan to officially issue our updated 3-year plan until February there are some interesting takeaways from our ongoing work that I'll share with you this morning.
Following my remarks we will briefly cover our financial and operating results for the third quarter.
Last night's @NFX publication summarized our recent operating highlights and our Chief Executive Officer Gary Packer will provide additional details and update you on the great progress we are making across our operating areas.
As always we will be happy to take your questions at the end of the call.
Since the beginning of 2013 we've been managing our company under a rolling 3-year plan and the fundamentals of this plan will remain largely unchanged.
Number one we will continue to focus on liquids-rich plays.
Under any foreseeable near-term scenario we still see oil as the right commodity for our investments.
Our natural gas assets are HBP and will remain a great option for future investment.
We will continue to make investments that will grow our economic inventory and build for future success.
Secondly we are moving toward balance between our cash flow and our annual capital investments.
Our rapid oil growth cash flow growth and improving margins are working to close the gap and we expect 2016 to be the time period where we will achieve balance under various commodity price scenarios.
This operating and financial discipline is important and at Newfield it is a priority.
And third we will flex our investments to deliver attractive liquids growth optimize our rates of return and preserve financial strength.
Having a few focus areas provides us with options and we will continuously work to modify our investments to deliver the best outcomes for our stockholders.
Our planning efforts can be summarized by addressing a few key questions.
Number one oil prices.
How low? How long? And what's the impact on our 3-year plan? We have significantly hedged our oil production for 2015 and 2016 and recently added positions in 2017.
Newfield has long believed in hedging as a prudent way to mitigate risk to the business plan by ensuring cash flow and returns.
We are one of the most hedged companies in the peer group today and our hedges are well above the current strip prices.
Today we're about 80% hedged for 2015 and have protected a $90 oil price.
Our 2016 volumes are about 60% hedged at a similar price.
And the recently added hedges in 2017 total about 20% of production protecting a high $80s oil price.
Our 3-year plan is based on a $90 oil forecast.
We estimate that a $10 drop in oil price would impact our 2015 cash flows by about $65 million.
Again illustrating our hedges go a long way to protect cash flow and preserve the foundation of our 3-year plan.
If oil prices navigate to an $80 world service costs will undoubtedly reset.
By design we typically hedge forward a significant portion of our production over a 2- to 3-year period.
This protects our returns while service costs reset and margins improve.
How do we best flex our investments to maximize returns and advance the company? Question number two.
But we are fortunate to have options.
Our belief that having more than one investment region is reinforced in times like today.
Our capital investments consistently shift to maximize returns optimize oil production and grow cash flow.
Our highest-return investment region today is the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma.
There is a gravitational pull to add activity in our SCOOP Springer Shale and STACK plays.
All of the investment scenarios we are considering for 2015 have an increasing percentage of our capital being allocated to the Anadarko Basin.
In SCOOP we are in field development and the efficiencies of pad drilling are evident.
As you can see in our @NFX publication we continue to drive well costs lower in STACK and are encouraged by the great results from our recent STACK lateral spacing test of the Upper and Lower Meramec Shale.
We will be increasing our activity levels in STACK as we drill to hold acreage and continue to prove up more development inventory for our future.
Our new Springer Shale play is providing very high returns and also we received dedicated rig activity during our 2015-2016 programs.
In the Uinta we remain encouraged and results from our recent Central Basin horizontal program continue to bear fruit.
Our recent wells have strong production results.
They're all SXLs and we are pushing well costs lower to improve returns.
We will continue to push forward in this high-potential oil play.
Without a doubt our operations in the Bakken continue to get more efficient allowing us to deliver more for less.
Last night we again posted new best-in-class wells in the Bakken drilling and completing SXLs for under $7 million.
These are highly efficient operations.
The key takeaway today is clear.
Newfield has high-quality options.
We will consider multiple scenarios and put forward the best plan to maximize oil growth grow cash flow improve returns balance our budget in the planned period and to add inventory for the future.
Our workforce today has been focused and mobilized to work STACK geologic plays in liquids-rich resource areas and can easily be shifted to ensure we align our talented people the best in the business with the best projects in our portfolio.
Number three what's the most appropriate level of investment under a reduced oil price environment? As I mentioned earlier we are running scenarios in oil prices ranging from the mid-$70s to the mid-$90s.
Consistent with our past practices our hedges will not be used to justify drilling in plays with inferior economics.
Our 3-year plan outlined expected annual investments of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion in the 2015-2016 time horizon.
These are still appropriate bookings today with an $80 oil price likely causing us to shift investment levels towards the lower end of this range.
At the low end of our investment range I'm confident we can still deliver strong production growth in 2015.
Our solid performance over the last 2 years has created momentum and we will work to keep our standing as a top-tier oil growth company.
Again we plan to issue a more comprehensive update to our 3-year plan in February 2015.
Larry Massaro our CFO will now cover our third quarter financial results before turning the call over to Gary.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
Third quarter production was 12.7 million barrels equivalent surpassing the midpoint of our guidance by 0.5 million barrels.
The sale of our Granite Wash had a small impact on the third quarter production and you will notice in our guidance that it impacts the fourth quarter by approximately 900 000 barrels.
Our year-to-date outperformance can be attributed to contributions for each of our focus areas.
With all key plays coming in ahead of guidance our domestic liquids production growth was up 7% over the prior quarter and 40% over year.
In the areas we are focusing all of our capital total production from 2014 is expected to be up over 50%.
Our cash flow in the quarter excluding changes in working capital was $321 million which equates to about $2.32 per diluted share.
Earnings during the quarter excluding the items listed in our release related to unrealized derivative gains were $72 million or $0.52 per share.
We met both cash flow and earnings expectations once again.
Our cash costs on a unit of production basis were in line with our earlier guidance projections and we should continue to see improvement over the 3-year plan.
During the quarter we received cash from nonstrategic asset sales of approximately $600 million the proceeds of which were used to cull and retire the $600 million of senior subordinated notes that were due in 2018.
This reduced our total debt to approximately $2.7 billion and lowers our debt-to-EBITDA to less than 2.
As Lee mentioned our plan is designed around improving several distinct metrics: liquids growth cash flow and managing the balance sheet.
The decision to monetize nonstrategic assets and strengthen our balance sheet has helped protect us in softening oil price environment.
Even with softer prices our portfolio is very resilient today offering both scale and quality.
The cornerstone of this program is Anadarko Basin.
The STACK and SCOOP plays have years of drilling inventory and are providing us with 30% to 50% rates of return even at today's lower oil price.
Our hedges are very strong and ensure that approximately 70% of our oil production over the next 2 years will get $90 price without further deterioration.
The foundation of our 3-year plan is sound and it will continue to be optimized as we adjust our plan to the market.
We intend to deliver on our objectives.
Let me quickly update you on the sales process for China business.
In August we set our production facility at Pearl and are today drilling development wells on the field.
We expect to have first oil production in November.
In early 2015 we expect the facility to produce at the peak gross rate of 40 000 barrels of oil per day.
We continue to work with our bid group to divest our China business and anticipate resolution later this year.
We will keep you informed on the progress of this sale.
I'll turn it over to Gary now for operations update.
Gary? Thanks Larry.
Let's start our operations update this morning in the Anadarko Basin where we continue to add acreage.
We now have 275 000 net acres up 25 000 acres since our last update.
Our Anadarko Basin production in the third quarter was 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up more than 15% over second quarter and doubled over our comparable period in 2013.
As you know our year-end exit target was 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We reached this milestone in the third quarter and now expect to average nearly 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the fourth quarter.
Our SCOOP midstream partner has done an excellent job keeping pace with our growth and recently completed significant upgrade to our system adding 75 million cubic feet a day of new capacity.
Today we have capacity to move 275 million cubic feet a day of gas and additional expansions are planned early next year.
We are in development in our SCOOP -- South SCOOP play and continue to see very strong well performance.
Our recent Briar pad came online during the quarter.
This is a 5-well pad with 4 of our wells being drilled as recent infills.
The Briar #1 and #2 average 1 250 barrels of oil equivalent per day over a 60-day period.
The Briar 3 and 4 are more recent and averaged 1 375 barrels of oil equivalent per day over a 30-day period.
These wells have a 10 000-foot lateral and 50% of our production is oil.
As we've said before the [indiscernible] SCOOP is multiple stacked horizons to pursue.
The first was a new play recently announced the Springer.
Stay tuned for more in 2015 and '16.
In the third quarter we disclosed our first operated well in the Springer the Jarred.
The well had a lateral length of less than 5 000 feet and initial production of nearly 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 85% was black oil.
The well's 30-day average production was 1 220 barrels of oil equivalent per day and the oil percentage remained at about 81%.
This is an exciting new play and lies within our SCOOP acreage footprint.
The Springer has higher porosity and permeability than the Woodford and is slightly geopressured.
To date we have participated in 9 wells and will be participating in about a dozen more wells over the next few months.
Industry is today running 8 rigs in the play and we are planning an active operated rig program here in 2015.
We will have more details to share with you early next year.
Our recent drilling in STACK has helped the production delineate about 2/3 of our acreage.
in today's @NFX you will see a graphic depicting step-out locations and 30-day rates on some important recent wells.
We continue to see great results across our acreage position and are growing more confident every day about the scope and scale of this large resource development and try saying scope and scale and SCOOP and STACK in the same paragraph fast.
We recently tested our first STACK laterals in the STACK play 2 wells drilled in the Upper and Lower Meramec Shale.
The Connie and Freeman wells spaced 880 feet apart at the surface and were stacked 275 feet apart in the Meramec.
These upper and lower spacing tests have excellent well performance.
The wells had a 30-day average gross of 935 and 680 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
The average oil percentage was 86%.
These STACK laterals have been online for 90 days and we've seen no interference between these wells.
Although it's very early both wells are performing above the type curve for the play.
We are highly encouraged with these tests which confirm the ability to have multiple development layers within the Meramec Shale.
Our drilling program today is helping the production delineate our acreage of tomorrow and provide confidence in our future development of this play.
The recent John well was drilled near the northwest boundary of our acreage.
This was a significant step-out and we now have strong well results more than 30 miles apart.
This is a -- there's a graphic at @NFX that depicts the size of this development.
Our 2014 program had several key objectives: holding our acreage through drilling; early testing of well spacing patterns for full field development; and importantly testing the STACK potential in multiple horizons.
We are progressing all of our objectives and continue to see improvement in our well cost and our rates of return.
Recent well costs in STACK have been around $10 million with a new best-in-class well at $9.8 million.
Our drilling and completion teams are doing a great job in the field and we know the learning curve will continue to advance.
Let me make a few quick comments about the Williston Basin before jumping into the Uinta.
Our Williston team continues to set the standard for development plays in this basin and they are delivering excellent results.
Year-to-date our 10 000-foot SXLs have averaged $7.5 million including facilities.
This was down another $400 000 from our update last quarter.
A recent best-in-class well was drilled and completed for $6.8 million including facilities.
The well had an IP of nearly 2 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day gross and averaged nearly 900 700 and 600 barrels equivalent per day over the first 30- 60- and 90-day periods respectively.
Our third quarter net production averaged more than 19 000 barrels a day of which 83% was liquids.
We are on track to grow our Williston production nearly 50% this year.
Next year's program we get the full benefit of these learning curves and we expect to deliver more for less as we do in each of our plays as we advance this development.
Our Uinta production has exceeded our beginning-of-the-year forecast by more than 800 000 barrels and we expect the year-over-year production will be up 15%.
Recall that our beginning-of-year projection was for 5% growth.
During the second quarter we released about a half dozen SXL wells and we are running 3 rigs in the Central Basin horizontal plays today.
We expect to have a similar update for you early next year.
Our most recent wells continue to show strong productivity and cost improvements.
A new best-in-class SXL was drilled and completed for under $11 million.
Lower completed well costs are the key to transforming these plays into large-scale economic developments of our future.
We are also encouraged with the significant rail volumes for the Uinta crudes today.
For the first time between 20 000 and 30 000 barrels a day are leaving the basin and markets for this valuable product are expanding.
We are confident that this will ultimately lead to improved differentials.
Newfield's growth forecast is tied to our takeaway capacity and we expect that our production will rapidly increase through 2016 as new refining expansions are completed on our behalf.
I'll turn it back to Lee for closing comments.
Thanks Gary and thanks to all of you for participating in today's call.
2014 is shaping up to be an excellent year for Newfield.
We're delivering on our promises and navigating through our 3-year plan that makes us bigger stronger more profitable with a deeper inventory.
We're focused on liquids and cash flow growth while being ever mindful of our capital structure and liquidity.
We enter 2015 with great operating momentum and multiple options to create value for our stockholders.
One of our core values is adaptability.
We have demonstrated our ability to weather cycles and our strong hedge position ensures cash flow to underpinned our drilling programs.
The value of our hedge book today is nearly $500 million.
Our hedge position is among the strongest in the industry and it will make a positive difference for our investors on the road ahead.
Thanks for your investment and interest in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more to well costs here.
Obviously you all made a comment that improving those is really the key one of the keys to improving returns here.
It seems as though you're not anywhere near development mode yet in STACK or the Uinta but costs have come down.
Would you guys kind of be able to kind of venture any other kind of quantitative reduction? I mean you think you could see another 10% or 15% reduction as we get into a full pad drilling development mode in these plays? Any insight you have would be appreciated.
Thanks Leo.
I'll start off and I'll leave it with -- to Gary to give you any color and information.
I think the observation that you made is key that our key plays STACK and some of the SCOOP acreage are certainly not in development today.
We mentioned South SCOOP's in development.
Our Bakken and our Eagle Ford are in development.
And when you look at what we've been able to drive our teams have been able to drive in terms of those development efficiencies translate into lower cost lower unit cost and improved returns we're confident we'll be able to translate those.
But as we've said for much of this year STACK -- our STACK play's going to be dominated by HBP efforts.
And we're really complementary Gary and the team in terms of being able to work in some of the spacing pilots et cetera but we've already driven cost in STACK down below with our best-in-class well below $10 million.
And if you go back and look at the plan when it was released late last year you can see that that was a cost regime that we expected to get to in like year 2 to 3 in the plan.
So very very encouraged with what we're seeing there in the Uinta Basin results with SXL wells getting the right equipment and focus.
That play is not in development today either.
So all of those gains are still largely out in front of us and that's part of what makes us really really excited about the -- our future.
I think you pretty much said it Lee.
I mean driving the Williston down from $11.5 million to $7.5 million is just self-evident of what we can do in development plays.
It's what we'll continue to do.
I'd refer you to our February '13 @NFX.
We described a range of outcomes the lower end being development and I believe we're locked and loaded on delivering the low end of those well costs for each of our development plays.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's really helpful.
And obviously you guys also spoke about wanting to increase capital in the Anadarko Basin next year.
I certainly realize that plans are not fully set at this point but I guess is it fair to say that other plays that are largely HBP such as Bakken and Eagle Ford potentially could see reduced capital as we increase capital into your kind of higher-return plays that are still HBP-ing like STACK for example? Yes.
I think what I said is that we expect to see an increased percentage capital allocation into the Anadarko Basin.
We'll wait to set the final capital plan that we'll announce in February.
But the bookends in terms of the $1.6 billion $1.8 billion are intact.
I think we continue to state that we'll shift CapEx and people towards the highest returns.
We've said that to Anadarko Basin.
And at the end of the day I think you'll be pleased with the plan that rolls out in February.
Our next question will come from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> A nice improvement on your Anadarko wells quarter-over-quarter.
When we met last you talked about some of the surface constraints and just kind of the buildout of really gas gathering artificial lift and the like in STACK.
Can you give us an update on how that fits in as you are moving across the basin and when you get to an optimal level in your 3-year plan on that? Sure David.
I guess there's 2 pieces to that.
As you are well aware down in SCOOP we have that gathering in place.
And as I addressed in my comments we're seeing that expansion in key plays with all of our growth expectations.
Up in STACK it's a little bit of a different story.
We're about to execute a gathering agreement here in the very near term which will kind of lock us in for the lion's share of that STACK play.
We've spent a lot of time looking at both processing capabilities and residue takeaway.
We believe that from a processing standpoint there's enough projects either in place or committed to at this point to meet all of our needs.
Residue takeaway is certainly something we have an eye on.
There's a number of projects while not in place today that we're confident between '16 and '17 we'll be able to meet all our needs to get gas out of the basin.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in your @ -- in the @Newfield which is great you didn't include the Eagle Ford volumes.
Could you just give us what the liquids and gas was for the Eagle Ford in the quarter? Eagle Ford was about 12 000 barrels a day and it's about 85% black oil.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the -- and I know this is tough given the China sale process is ongoing but the big move in oil prices elicited a lot of questions from investors for us.
So could you bookend what your expectations would be it can be as wide a range as you like of what is reasonable given the pullback in Tampa? So what proceeds you should -- we should start expecting for that sale.
Yes I appreciate the question David.
But we're going to stay consistent with what we've said for most of the last 1.5 years.
It's a quality asset.
The divestiture process is underway.
We're doing it for strategic reasons.
Certainly oil prices have softened.
We'll know more on what to think about that asset in the future when we get the bids in.
So let us work through the process and we'll give you information as it unfolds.
And next we'll take a question from Michael Rowe with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering a little bit more about the Springer Shale.
I know you all will talk more about this asset in 2015 but looks like you highlighted in your presentation that you think there's a good amount of inventory in your SCOOP South acreage.
So could you maybe provide some more context around that and then whether or not you expect any prospectivity in your SCOOP North acreage? Well I think we've been consistent since we originally announced our plans in the Anadarko Basin the original leasing that what we liked about the east flank in the Anadarko Basin is that it provides multiple levels that we thought ultimately would be perspective.
And while our initial focus was on the Woodford because of our expertise in that horizon we clearly recognized several other horizons that ultimately led to the STACK plays.
So you can look back through the materials that Steve and Danny had put out the IR materials.
And you can see indications of other horizons on some of those cartoons that we believe are prospective.
It's not too hard to draw connections between some of the horizons that we have in the northern part of the play with the southern part of play and vice versa.
As far as the Springer Shale in context we're fortunate that it covers a significant portion of our acreage footprint down in the SCOOP play.
As indicated we're about 10 wells into that with good strong results.
So it's going to be a significant contributor for Newfield but there's a lot of drilling yet to be done by ourselves and the industry before we fully understand the extent of that play.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just staying in the Anadarko Basin on the STACK vertical spacing test were those 2 wells staggered in a SAL 2 [ph] formation? Or how exactly was that -- how exactly does that pattern look? And I guess which of those 2 wells was the more shallow well? Okay.
They were staggered 800 feet apart which would be obviously 6 wells per DSU on equivalent.
The Meramec in this section was about 400 foot thick.
They were 275 feet apart vertically so they were staggered in that fashion yes.
And there's a diagram in the @NFX publication that shows you the -- where those wells how those wells were laid out.
And please remember we're -- while we're going to continue to work to gain information on spacing our primary focus is on HBP.
So these wells are being drilled across lease lines so that we can protect the acreage.
So it's an excellent graphic and I'll turn it back to Gary.
Yes.
It's on Slide 8 in the @NFX and it also illustrates in there Michael that the Connie well was the shallowest of the 2 wells that we drill there.
And now we'll go to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Want to both commend you and thank you guys for clearly articulating an outlook for '15.
Obviously there's going to be some variability in it but relative to peers that's definitely a welcome insight.
Above and beyond that when we think about your hedge position and the comment that you indicated that protects cash flows while service prices maybe recalibrate can you talk a little bit about the flexibility of your rig and your completion commitments or contracts with respect to how quickly you can change that rig fleet or renegotiate that pricing? Sure Dave.
First of all as far as completions we have no long-term commitments on the completions so we have ultimate flexibility in that regard.
Regarding our rig fleet we have similar flexibility.
I'd suggest about 50% of our rigs we have are under contract and even those contracts are rather limited.
They range anywhere from 6 to 9 months maybe 18 to 24 months on the outside.
So a ton of flexibility.
And as I think Lee referenced in there we're going to go ahead and we'll exercise that flexibility as required to where the best returns are being generated.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that.
And then maybe switching back to China for a second if we just think about your interest in the well on a flowing basis so call it almost 20 000 flowing per day probably maintains peak rate for oh 1.5 years or so is it reasonable for us to assume at those levels that daily cash flow from it would be $800 000? And maybe over that time period it would be $440 million.
Just trying to come up with a number at which you would say “Hey we're not going to take a price below a certain level." And my math would equate to like $440 million of cash flow during that 1.5-year period.
Am I off base in thinking about it that way? Or is this -- we need -- or our plan is to just be U.S.
onshore.
And I don't want to say we're going to get rid of it at any price but I'm just trying to get a sense for that.
Yes.
Well again I appreciate the question.
I'm going to turn this one to Larry but I want to make a -- reiterate something we've said consistently since we announced that our plans were to exit China.
Exit from China for Newfield is not a sale at any price.
We're in a strong position.
Our job is to maximize value for our stakeholders our shareholders and we intend to do that.
So keep that first and foremost in your analysis and I'll turn it over to Larry to give you some color on the ones you asked.
Yes this is Larry.
That's not far off.
I mean you're looking at somewhere north of $200 million a year of cash flow.
I think you could probably go for about -- yes the plateau is probably more like 2 years that you're looking at there.
And so I think your figures are pretty accurate.
And next we'll take a question from Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to quickly -- maybe I can get a little bit of color on the Meramec wells that you've been involved.
When I counted them to me it was -- one of your neighbor there is -- they came out with a well which was probably higher on the 30-day IP rate but yours has a much better oil cut.
And just any broad strokes on the geology? Is that variable? Or specifically across your acreage are you seeing variability in your threshold regimes so on and so forth? Well certainly if you look at it just from the wells that we released today you can see that we have a very consistent oil percentage as we go from the John clear down to the southeast to the Slash C.
If I go from west to east out of the Cana field which was dry gas as we move further east certainly we will see a reduction in GOR and an increase in oil cut.
And I think we've published in things that actually demonstrate that in our numbers.
So yes we do see a variation across the area.
What we like about it is as we move further to east obviously the preferred commodity increases and we get to preserve our cash flows and our returns.
Research Division</strong> When you think about you've alluded to the fact that you would be basically choosing the best-return asset in your portfolio and Anadarko Basin takes place but within that basin when you think about the Springer in '15 and how do you -- how you plan to allocate capital to hold acreage and develop would you -- in terms of -- so where I'm going with it the 30 days but when you look at it from a rate of return just how do they compare with say the SCOOP and the STACK and as well as Uinta Basin? All right.
So I'll -- I think I've got the gist of your question so I'm going to answer it as follows.
Anadarko Basin we talked about the gravitational pull is strong.
We've said that it's our intent that in all likelihood irrespective of the oil price environment we see going into '15 it's going to get the lion's share of our capital allocation percentage.
We've been accelerating there each of the last 3 years.
We started with about $300 million investment level in '12 and to $500 million.
We'll be close to $800 million this year.
So clearly all of that's working together.
I think when you think about the other things to talk about STACK derisking 2/3 of the acreage we mentioned on the call has been derisked.
And I think that clearly the results have been strong and consistent across the broad areas.
So hence the derisking and the confidence in that being a large-scale development play.
I'd love to run the development today but that would be an illogical statement to make and a bad decision.
We wouldn't pass the IQ test because we're focused on HBP-ing our acreage and continuing to gather spacing results so along the lines what Gary articulated.
And we would expect that that will play out over the next plus or minus 3 or 4 years as far as getting that acreage held by production.
But I don't see it shifting strongly to development inside of the next couple of years because we've got a lot of wells to drill there.
The fact that we're drilling strong wells with solid returns makes those decisions very very easy and we'll continue to optimize in that regard.
In terms of the rate of return question you can just count on the following.
Newfield is going to work every day.
Gary Packer I mean folks running our business work every day to optimize our investments.
So we're shifting capital where we're generating the best returns.
We're going to drive our planned results.
And as I've said Newfield today we have a lot of high-quality options and you can expect us to make smart decisions in the next inning.
Our next question will come from Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee looking at the well results that were provided in the @NFX document this quarter versus last quarter it looks like particularly the SCOOP and the STACK the 30-day rates really most of the IP rates took a nice step-up versus the first half of the year results and I realize there's probably some differences in lateral lengths.
But any change in drilling completion methods? What was driving the better results in the third quarter completions primarily? Yes.
I'll let Gary give you some color on that.
Yes.
No.
No we're going to continue to drive and look to optimize.
And it's something we stated all along Richard is this: don't focus on individual wells because you guys can't know the things that we're changing.
In actuality the well lateral lengths are pretty darn similar.
And what you saw there was whether you're looking at IP 24-hour IP or 30- 60- or 90- as you alluded to we're seeing anywhere between 20% and 40% improvement.
Now these are obviously all unbounded wells.
And over time we'll get into development and some of those numbers will down a little bit.
But we're extraordinarily excited about the profiles that we're generating now our completions team and the teams that we've got in the Mid-Continent are really refining the recipe for what's going to work with us.
And I continue and I expect that we'll see further improvements.
Our next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> I think we've gotten a lot of good color on the SCOOP and the STACK so I'm going to shift gears over to Williston for my 2 questions.
My first one is that new nat gas flaring rules now in place have the potential to restrict new well drilling in the Williston Basin.
Do you anticipate this presenting an impediment to your drilling plans in 2015? The answer is no.
We are meeting I believe today -- Newfield's current production meets the standards that are going to be necessary 2 and 3 years out.
So we're very comfortable with where we sit today.
We have our eye on it can't -- we always got to be working this but we're quite comfortable with the arrangements we have in place and the infrastructure we've got established to date to meet all those requirements.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
That was a comforting answer.
And also with regard to Williston there's some disagreement that's emerged as to whether or not the more expensive plug-and-perf completions provide a real economic advantage over sliding sleeve.
Do you currently favor one method over the other? And if so can you add some color on that preference? Yes.
Clearly we have a preference.
We continue to utilize the plug-and-perf versus the cemented options that are out there.
As far as color goes I think at the end of the day where we are focused on is it's all about returns.
It's all about cost and we have examined many of the different outcomes that have been reported.
And while we do see isolated areas where one completion may be preferred versus another you step back across the board and we still see the ultimate benefit the best returns being generated by the processes and the procedures that we're utilizing and we can't really argue with that when we're sitting here looking at wells today at $6.8 million.
We have AFEs coming in that we'll probably participate in well over 60 wells this year.
We still see AFEs coming in at $14 million and very very high and expensive completions.
And that's just -- again we've looked at it all we've examined all we see the whole bandwidth of outcomes out there and we like the plan that we've got in place.
And we have time for one last question and that question will come from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The balance sheet's been strengthened by the Granite Wash divestiture.
You highlighted your hedge position.
If we look at the outspend of cash flow before asset sales it's been relatively constant in recent years.
How do you think about that? And how should we think about that going forward? Should we expect a tolerance of that constant-type level of outspend? Or do you see a significant narrowing? If prices fall do you have tolerance so that actually widen? Yes Brian this is Larry.
No.
I mean this year look we went into it knowing we were going to have a significant outspend.
That plan that we were executing on has been in place now for a couple of years.
And as part of that plan was we were going to have a narrowing of that deficit next year and then look for getting to cash flow-neutral kind of in 2016.
The recent softening in oil price certainly bring us -- it was another challenge for the industry but we've run a number of scenarios that allows us to still reach our objectives.
And so we're going to keep spending discipline.
We're going to narrow the deficit.
And we're going to seek being cash flow-neutral as soon as possible and look for that in 2016.
We'll start to look to the -- if oil prices stay down we'll look to the low end of the capital range that Lee talked about and narrow down that number.
So we don't expect to see that same deficit next year.
Yes I'll just jump in Brian and add that we stressed it in the call but at the end of the day we're going to maintain at Newfield operating and capital discipline.
I mean I think at the end of the day it's important.
That's what we've committed to do with our board.
That's what we've been working towards.
And again everything that we're doing today is in concert with the 3-year plan.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up looking at Slide 9 of @NFX you've got your STACK well performance type curve and the performance versus that type curve.
And it looks like the well performance is generally online in line with type curve until -- with the type curve until about day 200.
And I'm wondering if there's something that you're seeing in the decline rates at that point or if it is just the well count is still too small so it's hard to draw any big conclusions.
I like your lead off Brian.
I think that the thing about STACK and I don't think we can stress this enough that we're sitting here giving you all of the data that we've generated in the STACK play kind of as it rolls off and compliments to our technical team.
I mean our folks did the analysis and did the forecast on the type curve before we'd ever drilled one of these wells.
So you'll never hear me say anything bad about performance in line with the type curve.
And clearly as we drill wells to Gary's point we'll have some wells above and below the type curve.
But the recent results while they're going to be very very early in this curve are strong.
I think the play is getting stronger.
And don't forget the cost that we've taken out of the equation is the biggest positive I think when we think about the overall play.
And that's really what's driving the improvement in the returns.
We're excited about the play and it's just normal statistics in terms of that play out through 500 or 600 days if I'm remembering that curve.
So we're really feeling good about the play.
Okay.
And thank you very much again for dialing in for today's call.
We look forward to updating you on our further progress early in the new year.
Have a good day.
And once again that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.