Welcome to Newfield Exploration's fourth quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded and before we get started one housekeeping matter.
Our discussion with you today will contain forward-looking statements such as strategic initiatives and plans estimated production and timing drilling and development plans expected cost reductions and planned capital expenditures.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they are based upon assumptions and anticipated results that are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks.
Actual results may vary significantly from those anticipated due to many factors and risks some of which may be unknown.
Please see Newfield's 2014 annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to vary.
Forward-looking statements made during this call speak only as of today's date and unless legally required Newfield undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures together with Newfield's earnings release and any other applicable disclosures are available on the Investor Relations page of Newfield's website at www.newfield.com.
Before turning the call over to Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Lee Boothby let me provide a housekeeping request.
Please limit your questions to one question and one follow up.
This will help Management get to more of your questions today.
Mr.
Boothby please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining our year-end 2014 conference call.
We disclosed a great deal of news yesterday afternoon along with our 10-K.
By now I hope you've read through the information which included our fourth quarter earnings and operations results our year-end 2014 proved reserves our 2015 capital budget along with our production and cost guidance for the first quarter and full year and a detailed @NFX publication which includes lots of new information on our results to date and our strong rates of return in our plays in the Anadarko Basin.
Since late last year we have been laser-focused on preparing our 2015 game plan.
We have proactively adjusted our business plan to align with the reality of low oil prices.
And our priorities for 2015 are very clear.
First our plan preserves financial strength and liquidity.
One could call it value over volumes.
But we've reduced our capital investments by about 40% year-over-year and focused our dollars on our highest-return area the Anadarko Basin.
Second we want to ensure that our STACK play is HBP.
We have worked to production-delineate more than 300 square miles and we are fortunate that we can couple the need to HBP with some of the best returns in the industry at today's prices.
The recent results in our STACK play are excellent and we are delivering 30% to 40% returns at today's commodity prices and service cost.
We believe our margins will continue to improve as the year progresses.
Third we want to be opportunistic.
We continue to add to our position in the Anadarko Basin which today is approximately 300 000 net acres.
We are hopeful that there will be opportunities for us to consolidate through bolt-on deals in the Anadarko Basin and we want the financial strength to do so.
Newfield is a leader in the area and we are building scale in a region where we have a proven and distinct competitive advantage.
And lastly we are preserving our options for the future.
Although today's plan was prepared in response to the reality of today's market the key ingredients of our long term plan are largely unchanged.
At the right time we will again focus on stronger levels of liquid production and cash flow growth.
We have a deep portfolio of liquids-rich assets that are largely held by production.
Before I get into the specifics of our plan let me quickly cover our 2014 highlights.
In 2014 we demonstrated superlative performance across the company and delivered on our value creation targets for shareholders.
We exited 2014 as a larger more valuable and better focused company.
Newfield was second-best-performing E&amp;P stock in the S&amp;P 500 index and we finished the year with a top quartile performance within our peer group.
The Anadarko Basin has earned its place at the top of our highlight list.
The economics in our SCOOP Springer and STACK plays are very resilient.
Our returns continue to get better as rig basin service costs reset to align with a new and lower near-term oil price outlook.
The SCOOP Springer and STACK plays have added tremendous value.
We have improved confidence in the consistency of our well results and the plays' potential to drive strong economic production and reserve growth for many years to come.
We push well costs lower returns higher and production delineated more than 75% of our STACK acreage.
In today's @NFX publication you will see that we are drilling our SCOOP and STACK wells on a per-foot basis for about half what we drilled and completed these wells for in 2012.
In today's @NFX you will see that our recent well results are outstanding.
We are seeing significantly lower well costs and we increased our STACK type curve by 20% or about 150 000 barrels from the 800 000-barrel figure to a 950 000-barrel EUR today.
This reflects results from a broad sample of wells across our acreage.
Our Anadarko Basin production more than doubled year-over-year and we added 65 million barrels of oil equivalent of new proved reserves.
The basin now comprises nearly 30% of our company's reserves.
This world-class resource provides us with shale scale with lots of running room and strong economics.
Across the company our drilling campaigns last year led to a 14% increase in our year-end proved reserves adjusted for asset sales.
This translates to an R/P of greater than 250%.
And those reserves were added at a total cost of $14.50 per barrel and we now have a greater than 14-year proved reserve life index.
At year-end 2014 our proved reserves were 645 million barrels of which 52% were proved developed and about 60% were liquids.
Our SEC PV 10 grew 18% to $8.8 billion.
And keep in mind that we sold more than $1.5 billion in non-strategic assets during the course of 2014 as well.
Our domestic production for 2014 was approximately 48 million barrels of oil equivalent with volumes materially exceeding the high end of our original 2014 guidance when adjusted for the sale of our Granite Wash properties.
Including China we produced 49.2 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2014.
Importantly our cost and expenses showed continued improvements throughout the year.
We significantly strengthened our oil hedges in early 2014 protecting our cash flows from the oil price correction.
And our China sales process however was impacted by the timing of the oil price collapse.
We are retaining the assets and in late 2014 brought our Pearl Field online.
At current oil prices cash flow from China will be about $130 million in 2015.
Pearl is now producing more than 13 000 barrels a day gross from three wells and is expected to ramp to a peak rate of about 30 000 barrels a day gross around midyear.
As mentioned earlier we sold approximately $1.5 billion in assets during 2014 improving our balance sheet and lowering our debt to EBITDA ratio.
Proceeds from the timely sale of the Granite Wash in late 2014 were used to redeem our 2018 senior sub-notes and reduce our leverage going into 2015.
And lastly we advanced the [inaudible] of new liquids-rich resources throughout the company.
In the Anadarko Basin we added the Springer to our resource inventory.
Among the many STACK plays in the Uinta Basin we saw some very encouraging flow rates from the Wasatch and Uteland Butte and today we disclosed our first well from a new play call the Upper Castle Peak.
We have other exciting exploration concepts in the STACK geologic horizons in the Anadarko Basin and in the Uinta but will be tested on the road ahead.
Before moving to 2015 I will quickly summarize our mostly recent quarterly results.
Production in the fourth quarter was 12.7 million barrels of oil equivalent about 400 000 barrels above our guidance range.
All of the outperformance was from our domestic business.
We lifted 300 000 barrels from China in the quarter.
Excluding several items listed in our news release our net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter would have been $53 million or about $0.38 per share on revenues of $495 million.
Our net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $337 million.
So now to the 2015 outlook although 2014 seems like a distant memory we entered this year with a great operating momentum and optimism about our future.
The outlook for our industry changed dramatically however as we entered 2015 and the reality that oil prices could remain lower for longer mandated that we make timely adjustments to our plans.
I'm confident that we will manage through this challenging time and position our company to once again focus on higher growth when the margins across our business return to more attractive levels.
The good news is Newfield has high-quality options.
With the exception of SCOOP and STACK our focus areas are all held by production and we can defer development without losing opportunities.
The lion's share of our 2015 capital investments have been reallocated to the Anadarko Basin.
We are fortunate to have a large high quality asset that can deliver solid returns even at today's commodity prices.
We moved decisively in early 2014 and strengthened our oil hedges before the market deteriorated.
Today our derivatives position sets us apart with a current value of about $800 million.
Our hedges were designed to give us a soft landing in the event that oil prices fell significantly.
At today's strip our hedges will add revenues of about $400 million in 2015 and around $350 million in 2016.
Our balance sheet capital structure and derivatives position afford us both time and options.
Our 2015 plan has been designed to substantially balance our cash flow with capital investments preserve liquidity and maintain solid coverage ratios.
We do not have any significant long term rig or service contracts outside of the Anadarko Basin.
Today we are working with our service providers and leveraging our operating scale to align costs with commodity prices.
We are seeing material service cost reductions today and we are focused on materially reducing these costs across our operating regions.
Our capital budget for 2015 is $1.2 billion.
We have high-graded our investments into the Anadarko Basin and we are taking significant actions to reduce our G&amp;A and operating expenses.
Our plan incorporates the cost savings we have captured to date.
We have seen drilling and completion's costs reduced by about 15% to 20% in our active areas and expect reductions of at least 25% in certain services by year-end.
Our lease operating expenses are down about 10% to date and we expect reductions of at least 15% by year-end.
We have reduced our G&amp;A by 10% year to date and including other initiatives we expect at least a 15% reduction in full-year G&amp;A.
We have vigorous new initiatives underway across the organization to lower cost structure improve margins to compete and win in a lower oil price environment.
Despite our reduced investment levels we intend to deliver solid growth.
Our 2015 production is expected to be 52 million to 55 million barrels oil equivalent.
This equates to a 15% to 20% growth level adjusted for asset sales in 2014.
Year-over-year domestic production is estimated to increase 5% to 10% adjusted for asset sales last year.
We expect our liquids growth will be up 32% including China and 18% domestically.
Our second half volumes are expected to be higher than our first half volumes domestically.
And when you add China our fourth quarter 2015 volumes are expected to be about 7% higher than our fourth quarter 2014 volumes.
At the end of the 2015 reporting season we think this will separate us from the pack and we are not deferring completions to inflate our late 2015 growth projections.
As we said earlier approximately 70% of our investments this year will be allocated to the Anadarko Basin where we plan to run 10 operated rigs and drill about 100 wells.
Our industry peers will also be active in the basin and our non-operating drilling activity is expected to remain high during the course of the year.
Our confidence level in STACK continues to grow.
Our most recent wells showed solid economic improvements at every stage.
We are drilling faster.
We expect our STACK SXL wells will be drilled in less than 25 days in 2015.
That's a 40% improvement over our 2013 average and 25% over last year and we are not yet in development mode.
We are drilling wells cheaper and we have quickly applied our learning curve from SCOOP to our operations in STACK.
Our 2015 well costs for STACK are estimated at $8.5 million down from our original forecast of $9 million to $12 million.
Completed well costs have fallen faster than we anticipated through service cost reductions drilling efficiencies and optimized completions.
Once in development we expect to see continued efficiency gains.
Drilling to-date has production-delineated about 75% of our acreage.
This is up from about 33% this time last year.
We have high confidence in our development projections.
Again our STACK program is delivering solid returns across an area of more than 300 square miles.
We recently increased EURs for our STACK type curve by 20% to 950 000 barrels of oil equivalent.
And our rates of return in STACK at today's commodity prices and costs average 30% to 40%.
As service cost continue to drop our returns should further improve.
We show our expected returns at varying prices in today's @NFX publication.
In less than four years we've grown our net production from the Anadarko Basin to a fourth quarter 2014 average of 54 000 BOE per day.
We expect that our Anadarko Basin program will grow more than 40% in 2015 and our year-end net exit rate will approach 70 000 BOE per day.
The high grading of our 2015 investments required near-term reductions in activity levels in our Williston Eagle Ford and Uinta Basin programs.
Our production in the Williston Basin was up 50% in 2014 and will remain relatively flat this year despite cutting our rig count from four rigs in 2014 to one rig in 2015.
Our drilling will primarily be focused on our core acreage along the Nesson Anticline.
Our team continues to deliver best-in-class results with plans to drill and complete our 2015 SXL wells for about $6.5 million including facilities.
Our acreage in the Williston is HBP and we will be poised to add activity as prices and service costs align.
The most significant change in our investment plan is in the Uinta Basin where we plan to temporarily cease all drilling activity.
Our Greater Monument Butte unit is a conventional water flood characterized by higher lease operating expenses and sensitivity to dramatic oil price fluctuations.
Our near-term focus is on reducing our field level operating costs and improving our margins.
We remain encouraged with the results from our SXL drilling campaign in the central basin region of the Uinta and we summarized our 2014 drilling results in @NFX.
You will see that these wells have high sustained production rates and strong ultimate recoveries.
Our focus last year was on lowering well costs and we achieved some significant advancements in 2014.
Progress we made in the Uinta was reflected in our production growth with the basin growing about 15% year-over-year compared to our beginning-of-year forecast of 5%.
Our recent plan to reduce investments down to just $82 million in 2015 will obviously impact production.
We expect our Uinta production will decline about 15% in 2015.
The Uinta Basin assets are also held by production and we will be prepared to add activity when the market provides appropriate signals.
Salt Lake City area refiners have added new capacity on our behalf and we affirm capacity agreements in place.
We do not expect any material shortfall fees associated with these agreements in the near term.
The maximum exposure for 2015 and 2016 is about $10 million in total.
Longer term if we were to elect to a limit our future drilling the annual shortfall fee could approach $40 million per year beginning in 2017.
Today we don't view these penalties as significant enough to warrant drilling wells that would otherwise be uneconomic just to satisfy contracted volumes.
Again we plan to continue high grading our investments to ensure the best rates of return at the corporate level.
Uinta Basin is a very large oil resource with significant upside in our unconventional horizontal plays.
We have more than 5 000 potential drilling locations and about 1 billion barrels of net oil resource to pursue in the basin.
Improvements in future oil prices along with ongoing efforts to lower costs improve margins and find new markets for our oil sales will work in tandem and we expect that the Uinta will again compete for capital within our portfolio in the near future.
As promised we kept our remarks brief this morning.
Newfield has high-quality options today and we are taking the right steps to ensure we successfully navigate today's business environment.
Newfield delivered outstanding operating results in 2014 and we continued a streak of solid execution across our company.
Although today's market presents new challenges I'm confident that our teams will deliver on our key objectives in 2015.
These are; to deliver a superior execution under a reduced capital budget that aligns with cash flow; to deliver strong growth and to continue to improve returns in the Anadarko Basin plays; and to find innovative ways to improve margins across the remainder of our legacy portfolio.
Longer term our portfolio of assets is capable of stronger levels of growth in both production and cash flow.
The resource table in today's @NFX depicts a deep inventory locations that are held by production and will be ready to drive our growth when the margins in our business return to acceptable levels.
Until then our operating plan is sound and will ensure that we both create value today and preserve value for tomorrow.
Thanks for your investment in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions].
We will take our first question from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
It was really quite an achievement when you add value like this in a down cycle.
I know its hard work over the years but this really is quite phenomenal.
First question and a follow up the first question is on infills and density pilots maybe.
I note delineation is what you're doing but as you get to 75% is there a program in 2015 to test density? So first I'm going to take a moment because I think I spoke I want to thank you for your comments on behalf of our team.
Our team has worked incredibly hard to reposition the company and this is not the result of waking up one morning and having good things happen.
It's a lot of good hard work by a talented team that I'm fortunate to work with and lead.
So thank you for your comments.
With regard to infills and density pilots our team has continued to work focused on HBP to drill wells straddling lease lines.
We were drilling wells in multiple intervals within the STACK play and we continue to add other horizons into the test.
So I will tell you we'll continue to do that activity.
I don't believe that it would be appropriate for us to turn the ship away from the HBP focus and the results and the returns we're delivering today say that we can continue on the path that we're on.
I'm excited about getting to that development phase but we've got plenty of experience in multiple plays today with regard to spacing.
So I think we've got a pretty good idea what the plan will look like going forward.
But we'll continue to work it in with regard to HBPing the acreage and over the course of this year and moving into next year we'll keep you apprised of the results.
But I think you can look at that map on @NFX and you can see the distribution of wells I think the team delivered exactly what we told we were going to do in 2014.
And again our confidence level is very very high in those plays today.
And my follow up is at this stage Meramec versus Woodford could you talk to some of the differences between the two horizons practically and geologically? Well the Meramec sits on top of the Woodford separated by carbonate interval gross age.
We are testing intervals throughout the Meramec section.
I think we've tested three different intervals within that 400 or 500 foot section and we've continued to test the Woodford across that acreage position as well as down in the SCOOP where we've moved out of the wet gas condensate window up into the oil window.
So we're very excited about the results that we're seeing.
Specific to STACK we continue to see competitive results between the Meramec and the Woodford and it's not something that we've done at this point to go ahead and segregate.
I think that we tested three horizons they all work.
We tested the Woodford in multiple locations.
It's all working.
I think we told you originally that we thought there would be three to five horizons to exploit and I would say we're well on our course.
The results we're delivering are in accordance with our plan.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Obviously I appreciate the fact you're taking a conservative tact to start the year.
Just wanted to get a sense if we continue to see the cost reductions that you're expecting over the next several months.
What relative type of pricing might we see for you to accelerate and spend a little bit more? Do we need to get back up to say $70 or something before you would decide to spend a little bit more money can you just talk through that process? Well I think the key words in the call in my mind are that we've designed a balanced play.
And we've got a balanced program for 2015 appropriate for the $55ish world that we see today.
Clearly as we continue to generate results and hopefully prices improve we'll get to a point where we generate incremental cash flow.
But we're not going to move away from that balance.
We've been chasing balance now for the last three years.
The market conditions have forced balance.
We'll work our way forward in a very prudent manner.
Higher prices higher cash flow.
We've got plenty of high return opportunities to invest it will transit to more activity.
Conversely if we settled into a lower price environment for longer I think I said earlier that we can navigate several years into the future and await that day when better returns come.
Now I'm hoping for the earlier return to a more buoyant oil price but we're covering the bases and doing the right thing today for tomorrow.
And in your prepared comments you certainly spoke about trying to be opportunistic for potential acquisition opportunities here is that largely in Anadarko Basin where you're focused and do you think there is significant more acreage to pick up over there? Well I think the - what we believe is having lived through multiple cycles our leadership team that environments like this lead to opportunities and you've got to be in a strong position to capitalize on those opportunities.
Clearly there are other areas in the Anadarko Basin that we have an interest in.
And I guess we're politely letting everybody out there know that we're in the game.
So if opportunities show up there I promise you Newfield will be in that game.
Thank you.
We will go next to Michael Rowe with TPH.
Obviously you have a lot of growth year-over-year and exit to exit out of the Anadarko Basin in 2015 with the majority of the capital going there.
So my question is you had a nice Q4 of 2014 with a lot of wealth coming online probably sooner than you expected.
So can you may be give us a sense for your anticipated PDP decline for the Anadarko exit to exit and maybe just your level of confidence in that declined number given the flush rate of production you had exiting 2014? Well I don't have - so I'll protect myself I don't have an absolute number in place for the rate of decline on the base production.
I will tell you that our base production outperformed in 2014.
Our base production is constructed off the type curves that we publish.
I think our team does an extraordinarily good job in terms of managing.
In fact we have a group of people that are in place just to manage base production so we did everything we can every day.
Performance against type curves has been strong so our confidence in the production forecast and the growth rates is very very high.
So I'm not concerned about there being any decline rates or anything like that in the base production in Anadarko that aren't fully and completely accounted for in our forecast.
And then just one follow-up would be I guess there's not a lot of added detail about the Springer Shale in the presentation which makes sense given limited operating history.
But was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more about how much capital that asset could attract in 2015 and maybe how it compares to the existing targets that you all are investing capital into in the Woodford and Meramec sections? Well I would tell you that the Springer play the results we posted as well as some of our friends in the industry if you will Continental notably where we've been in a number of their wells and they've been in a number of our wells have been very very strong.
I think that translates to really high-quality target.
Good hydrocarbon rich good permeability all the things you like to see.
What I was really excited about with the results posted in 2014 is all of those high return high rate wells were 5000 footers.
So we do plan to allocate CapEx to the Springer as part of our SCOOP development activity in 2015 and we will be testing both 5000 and 10 000 foot laterals.
So I'll keep you apprised as the year unfolds but we see it as a strong economic target as part of the good news story in Anadarko Basin.
Thank you.
We will go next to Dan Guffey from Stifel.
In the STACK wondering how much production history and how much delineation will you need to see before segmenting the Meramec and Woodford intervals? And then also can you remind us how much of your 210 000 net acres in the STACK are prospective for each formation? All right let me make sure I think I might have missed the back part of your question so you can bring me back there.
First part as far as how much do we need to see to have confidence in the forecast.
I'll remind you and I think it's in the @NFX the first year of drilling out here was late 2011.
So we've got developing multi-year production forecasts.
We've had really really strong performance across that period in terms of the actual results versus modeled performance.
That would be reservoir simulated model performance.
We're upgrading the type curve in today's release or yesterday's release and today's call by about 20%.
That's a combination of targeting locating within the section.
It's a 700 foot thick overall section and STACK.
Top is about 400 or 500 feet to Meramec and the bottom portion is Woodford.
We now have wells throughout that interval and when you look at the map that's in @NFX I think you'll be able to conclude that we're delivering good strong results across the horizon and in both intervals.
So frankly as long as the statistical data says that the wells drilled in the play are more alike than different we'll probably keep it that way.
Because doesn't make any sense for us to have 15 different plays to try to talk to you about.
We're giving you a type curve that we think represents the play and I think the results delivered demonstrate that we're doing a good job predicting performance.
I expect it'll only get better from here.
And on the back end of the 210 000 net acres do you think the Woodford and the Meramec are both prospective across all of the acreage? Is that what the data has shown or is it segmented? Well if you look closely at the map and the @NFX we actually have outlines and that we've had those outlines of the domain for - since we announced the play back in August of 2013.
So there's a Woodford outline and there's a Meramec outline.
I'll caution you to say that the edges are not absolute.
But you'll see that we have drilled wells where they overlay one another and we've drilled wells that are outside of the Woodford and only in the Meramec.
So you can get some feel for that looking at the distribution of wells that have been drilled.
And if you put a tape down and say what's 300 square miles look like it'll cover most of that area up there and I think the split out on the wells to date.
Just to give you a feel so it's not skewed we've got about 40% of the wells that have been drilled.
I think total you can go back and check this tally or get with Steve I think it's 40% of the wells have been in the Woodford and somewhere around the 60%ish have been in the Meramec to date.
And then on my second question in the @NFX update you provided well economics for each of your core areas.
And in the SCOOP wet gas window you're modeling a 5900 foot lateral verse the extended laterals for every other area.
In that wet gas window are there lease geometry issues or reservoir limitations or will you work toward that closer to 9000 foot lateral in the wet gas? Well it's - as you move into the wet gas window you're getting deeper.
You've reached limitations in terms of rig capacity.
We've settled in in that 6000 6500 5500 foot is what we've been delivering all the way along the play there.
So it's a combination of factors but I think it's mostly mechanical.
Gary you have anything you want to add there? Yes I think there is some geology involved but most of its the limitation due to depth.
Everywhere we can drill the longer laterals we're drilling the longer laterals.
Thank you.
We will go next to Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Your 1Q guidance suggests that it's probably flat or a little incremental over 4Q yet your 4Q 2015 over 2014 shows a healthy growth of 7% 8%.
I think in your comments you mentioned that you're not grow depth of completions towards the back end of the year.
So I'm curious how you're seeing - what is the quarter-over-quarter cadence production cadence look like in 2015? So what you'll need to do and I think the data is pretty well laid out the team has pulled together is you contract the domestic U.S.
Those are all of our resource plays and you can get a good stable view of what's going on there in terms of activity and it all fits together.
The only noise in the U.S.
portfolio would be the timing of pads and things that are normal to resource play development.
So we'll work through those issues and that's all incorporated in our forecast.
The other piece that we touched on is the timing of China.
So you get the second half of the year you got the full impact of China approaching the peak rate of around 30 000 barrels a day around midyear.
I think those would be the two primary things that you would want to look at.
Gary you have anything you want to add? Yes we're down in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter and a lot of that was just timing of completions in the Anadarko Basin.
And as you said we're already - we're going to be up in the second half over the first half of the year.
And then could you - you're not drilling in Uinta and Eagle Ford yet you see - I see on your some pin slices on your CapEx by in your presentation would you care to comment on the capital spend in Uinta and other? Yes there is capital in those areas.
And it's really just the wind down of activity.
We've been dropping rigs steadily in the first quarter.
We have now totally exited the Uinta basin from activity and we are about to exit the Eagle Ford.
Okay but then you're not deferring those completions that you've drilled other wells that you've drilled in Uinta and Eagle Ford your other? It's going to be a part of the production in 1Q 2015? Yes all those wells will be completed immediately following the drilling.
We've done the analysis internally and the best - the thing that makes sense in our portfolio is drill complete and produce not delay the production.
And then my final one if you could give us some color on how your China production profile looks like for mid-2015 or rather beyond 2015.
Does it flat line along with the exit rate or does it grow if you could talk on that please? We reach peak rate in mid-year 2015.
You'll have a plateau period I don't know how many months that'll last and you'll go on a normal decline.
It's a conventional field horizontal developments and conventional reservoirs.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to follow-up on a couple of your earlier points.
You talked about the opportunity to add to your Anadarko position to further build scale.
How much quality acreage in SCOOP and STACK and Springer do you see is out there and fragmented beyond yourselves and two other large players? Or is your focus as you seem to reference in one of the early questions building a position in more exploratory or step that acreage in other parts of the basin? I would say Brian about all we're going to say today is that we're going to be opportunistic.
I can promise you we aren't going to chase ran pasture acreage to pad counts.
But there is attractive acreage out there and there are people that control acreage that we view as attractive.
And the market conditions and the timing is right we'd like to add them to the portfolio.
But it'll be within the context of the core plays.
And then we saw obviously another very strong quarter in the Anadarko Basin looking at your guidance it would appear to imply some slowdown in sequential growth versus your recent quarter trends.
Is this Newfield being conservative or are you referenced backlog building here in the first quarter? Can you provide a little more specifics on the timing of completions versus perhaps the level of conservatism or your decline rates? Yes I think I touched on it in one of the earlier answers but most of the variability quarter to quarter we've had it's just a timing of pads.
Because we've been doing a lot of pad drilling and that certainly is still going to impact us in terms of timing in the Anadarko Basin notably in SCOOP where we've been in development for most of the last 1.5 years or so.
I would tell you that beyond that take 40% out of the capital budget there is a general overall slowdown.
But I think Gary and the team have been managing that very well and we've been dropping rigs over the last several weeks of the timing of China and all this comes together to leave us in real good shape $1 billion $1.2 billion we can tread sideways in the market.
So I think that's kind of the way to think that we're sort of at maintenance level but in the core plays we're growing at a healthy rate.
Gary? Yes the only thing specific to SCOOP and STACK Brian I would add is that in the SCOOP play that's historically been just one or two wells per pad and we're going to do more pad drilling in STACK.
And what you're going to see this year is we're going to make a more - we'll have a more balanced program between SCOOP and STACK.
So the pad drilling and as we move to STACK will have a higher oil cut which will make the apparent production growth look slower.
Thank you.
We will go next to Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
With respect to your comments of pushing drilling in the SCOOP up into the oil window is that related to in any way shape or form making sure that you have sufficient take away capacity or processing capacity? And I would guess is also related to the weekend GL presses.
No it's just related to attractive economics as we develop the wet gas condensate window we're moving into the acreage up dip.
It's about getting it HBP and securing the acreage for the future.
And then thinking about idling activity in the Uinta and the Eagle Ford and obviously liquidity isn't an issue but do those potentially become divestiture assets or targeted for divestiture with the amount of running room you have in the Anadarko Basin? Well I think we've demonstrated over the last several years that we've been able to sell assets.
I think we've had asset sales at appropriate times in the market.
What we have in those other areas are solid core asset positions.
I think Uinta Basin just the horizontal piece of that so 1 billion barrels of potential.
So I'm not going to tell you that things aren't for sale but we have no plans to sell any of these assets and I think we've seen and demonstrated the benefits of being able to operate across multiple areas.
I think you look closely at the @NFX publication I'm really impressed with what the team has delivered in STACK and at SCOOP and the Williston Basin.
And if you look at the percentage gains over time you'll see an amazing level of consistency there.
That tells you that the organization is a learning organization.
It's working as a team and frankly first opportunity to go back to work and have those competing in the return space with our other plays we're going to go back to work in those basins.
We will go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Lee if we think about a bounce back a potential bounce back in prices where does that - you get an extra $500 million tomorrow where does that go to work as far as reallocation? Do you start to put stuff back in the Bakken a little more in Uinta? Or can you give us some color on that? I'll let Gary and Larry give you some color since they've been in the middle of --involved with the planning.
I think first place we'd take a look at his balance sheet and make sure the balance sheet remains strong.
It would really determine probably most by the volatility that we would see.
It would be easy to put incremental activity to work in the SCOOP and STACK plays.
That's the first place we would make incremental investments.
But as we saw more long term rally and if they were moving into the $75 to $80 range and it looked like we had stability there clearly the plays in the Uinta Williston would get incremental activity.
Okay Gary not to read too much into what you said but - so $75 is that - $70 $75 is that the way you're thinking about the Williston Uinta as far as where it makes more sense? Sure that makes sense as far as having incremental cash flow to think about investing in areas outside of the Anadarko.
We're investing in the Williston in 2015.
Okay and then final question there on - or second question the Williston.
You drilled - it looks like you drilled 50 plus wells there in 2014.
Yet it says you can keep production flat with one rig? Can you help me out there with that logistically how that's happening? Is it backlog or how does that work? Yes that's a big part of it David.
We entered the year with four rigs running and hence the capital you see in there in our allocation $135 million $150 million or so is just completing that program and getting those wells completed.
As we sit here today we're down to two rigs.
We'll run two rigs through I think it's about May and then we'll drop back to the single rig that's referenced in the script.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
I just wanted to ask a couple of questions a little bit of detail with the Anadarko.
The first is with regard to the Springer in 2015; is this being drilled primarily as a standalone zone or is it being drilled on existing pads or is it going to be drilled in tandem on multi zone pads are all of the above? I think it's pretty much all of the above Jeffrey.
And we are strictly targeting the Springer in the individual wells but there may be some areas where we're targeting Woodford as well.
And as a follow-up can you provide us with any updates on Anadarko multi zone STACK tests planned for 2015 or even potentially 2016? As far as multi zone tests we don't have any specific plans to do any multi zone or STACK completions if you're thinking about multi laterals in particular.
Everything that we drill is mono bore.
We believe in the long lateral SXL.
So each one of those laterals will be targeted in a specific horizon and if there are any other activities related to that Gary can give you some color.
Yes we drilled three that attacked multiple zones in parallel with one another in 2014.
They were anywhere between 880 and 1000 feet apart and we saw no destructive interference between those.
So we got really good early information - yes up in the STACK area.
I think that information was posted earlier or last quarter if I'm not mistaken if you want to go back and look.
Right that was really what I was referencing the question-- Yes that sort of activity will continue to feather in.
But I thought you were asking about multi laterals so my apology.
Thank you.
And management has time for one final question from David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
I'm curious if you could provide more color on the midstream agreement with MarkWest that was announced today on building out the Anadarko position there? It's strictly a gas deal.
It's confined to the STACK area.
As you recall we did a deal with DCP down in the SCOOP area and it includes both gathering and processing.
And how many years in your current program do you feel it'll take you until you're in development mode in SCOOP STACK areas? Well we're in development mode in SCOOP today.
The STACK area we've talked about earlier in the call that it would take the next three years to get all of that HBP.
You will see us shift towards development activity there and once the finish line on HBP is clearly in sight.
So I would say probably we will continue to be dominated by HBP activity for the next couple years and in year three you'll start to see development activity would be my guess.
And the last one if I might are there other opportunities to expand in China beyond the three well program and if so when is the decision date on that? There are Newfield - there probably are but they'll have somebody else's name attached to it than Newfield.
We're going to stay focused on our Bohai Bay and Pearl assets and we have no intention of expanding in China.
Operator? And I'll turn it back over to you for any final remarks.
Okay thank you.
Well I would like to thank everybody again for your investment in Newfield and your interest in Newfield and your time today.
I want to thank you for recognizing the great results that the teams delivered and we're looking forward to delivering more great results in 2015.
So we'll keep you posted.
Hope you have a good rest of the day and we'll talk to you again soon on the road.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.