Welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration First Quarter Conference Call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I will turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
We are off to a fantastic start in 2015 and we have a lot of information to share with you today.
Our speakers on today's call include our Chairman Lee Boothby and our CFO Larry Massaro.
Our COO Gary Packer and the remainder of our executive team will also be available to answer your detailed questions at the end of today's prepared remarks.
I remind you again please limit your time today to one question and one follow-up.
This certainly allows us to get to more of your questions today.
Before handing the call over to Lee let me make a couple of comments.
We issued a detailed @NFX publication last night along with our earnings release and we will reference some of these slides this morning.
As you know today's call is being recorded and will be available on our website along with the earnings release the financial tables and our non-GAAP reconciliations.
As always today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and these are based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed today.
A full disclaimer for you is located in our earnings release and in our most recent 10-K.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good to get you involved in the call.
Good morning everyone.
Let's get started.
We're off to a very good start in 2015 and we are on course to deliver on our business plan.
The priorities in this plan are very clear.
First our plan aligns our investment levels with our expected cash flows today and ensures we maintain financial strength and liquidity.
We right-sized our investment levels and shifted the lion's share of our capital to the Anadarko Basin where we are seeing very strong and improving rates of return.
We executed three very important financial transactions during the quarter that put us in a very strong position today.
We issued equity and paid off our credit facility.
We issued new 10-year senior notes in an attractive 5 3/8% [5.375%].
And in April 2015 we retired a commensurate amount of debt due in 2020 and we upsized our credit facility by $400 million to $1.8 billion and extended its term by two years to 2020.These transactions were carefully considered and we see them as the right steps in today's outlook for lower oil prices.
Second we are focused on drilling in STACK to hold our large acreage position by production.
Our confidence in the scale and economic success of STACK continues to grow with each well.
You'll hear more on today's call to support our encouragement around the Anadarko Basin and its potential to drive our corporate growth well into the future.
And lastly we're now positioned to ramp up activities in SCOOP and STACK at the right time.
We recently announced the combination of our Rockies and Onshore Gulf Coast business units into one operating region allowing us to expedite the shift of both human and capital resources into the Anadarko Basin as well as reduce future G&amp;A cost and realize greater efficiencies.
Be assured as we continue to see improving margins we will again focus on even stronger levels of liquids production and cash flow growth.
We have the people in place today to execute our future plans.
Before I provide an overview of the progress we are making in the Anadarko Basin I'll turn the call over to Larry Massaro to provide a quick summary of our first quarter operating and financial results.
Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
As we close out the first quarter we're executing extremely well.
Our 2015 operating plan is intact and we are on course to deliver our key objectives which combine growth with an improving cost structure.
We entered this year quickly flowing what was a $1.7 billion investment rate with rigs operating across four basins.
We quickly reduced our budget to $1.2 billion and aligned it with expected cash flows.
This reallocation reduced activity in South Texas and the Rockies while shifting capital to our highest return plays in the Anadarko Basin.
On that cash flow statement it appeared that we invested about $500 million in the quarter about 20% of this was simply cash payments from 2014 capital investments.
We actually invested about $400 million in the first quarter as we wound down drilling programs and completed an inventory of wells that carried across year-end.
We expect that our fourth quarter 2015 investment level will slow to about $250 million.
For the remainder of the year we expect to run one rig in the Williston Basin and 10 rigs in the Anadarko Basin.
Our production in the first quarter topped the midpoint of our guidance by 300 000 barrels totaling 12.6 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our domestic production was 11.7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Adjusted for asset sales this represents year-over-year growth of 21%.
More importantly our domestic liquids production was up 26% year-over-year.
In our guidance note that our second quarter domestic production is expected to grow 5% over the quarter.
Discretionary cash flow from operations was $255 million or about $1.76 per share topping consensus estimates.
Net income for the quarter excluding several one-time items detailed in our earnings release was $0.02 per share.
The most significant item was a non-cash ceiling test write-down related to the significant drop in oil prices.
As a full cost company this charge was certainly expected and was in line with our recent disclosures in our Form 10-K.
This is a non-cash charge.
It has no impact on our credit facility or our debt covenants.
We expect another ceiling test write-down in the second quarter as $90 oil prices in 2014 are replaced with significantly lower 2015 prices in the 12-month trailing average.
Our plan for 2015 projects improving cash operating costs throughout the year.
We are taking the right steps today to lower our cost structure and improve margins across the company.
Our first quarter domestic lease operating expense per barrel equivalent dropped more than 15% over the prior year.
Our G&amp;A expense will benefit from our recent reorganization and head count reductions.
Excluding the one-time costs associated with these actions we estimate that our G&amp;A expense will fall by about 15% or more than $40 million in 2016 and beyond.
Our interest expense will also benefit by $10 million per year due to lower rates on our recently issued senior notes.
These are significant positive changes to our cost structure in future periods.
As Lee mentioned in his opening remarks the capital market transactions we executed in the first quarter were well-timed allowing us to navigate uncertain market conditions.
At the end of the first quarter we had nothing drawn on our revolver.
With about $2 billion of liquidity our capital structure is the best it has been in more than a decade.
The focus this year will remain profitable growth continued cost structure improvement getting the STACK HBPed and ready to deliver strong future growth as we prepare for full field development and maintaining balance sheet integrity.
I'll turn the call over to Lee for an update on our Anadarko Basin.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Larry.
I'd like to spend the remainder of today's call on the Anadarko Basin more specifically share some additional information with you on why we are gaining more confidence in this play's ability to deliver corporate growth for years to come.
We're on track to deliver 45% production growth from the Anadarko Basin in 2015 and we expect that our first quarter average net rate 53 000 barrels oil equivalent per day will grow to an average of 57 000 net barrels oil equivalent per day in the second quarter and we expect to exit the year with more than 68 000 BOE per day.
The slight drop in our first quarter daily average is simply related to the timing of pad completions and planned shut-ins for offsetting completions.
Be assured we're on track to deliver our growth projections in 2015.
While excited about this growth we're even more excited about our increasing rates of return the improving productivity of our wells and the data we were obtaining from a large number of STACK wells that have now been online for two years or more.
Let me provide a few distinct examples to help you better understand our excitement and growing confidence levels in the value of STACK.
Our well results continue to get better.
On slide seven in the @NFX publication we included six STACK wells that on average have higher 30 day 60 day and 90 day production rates than our 2014 wells at more than 800 barrels oil equivalent per day for both the 30 day and 60 day average rates and 765 barrels oil equivalent per day for our average 90-day rate.
The oil percentage on a wellhead basis was about 80% over the first 30 days and averaged 74% oil over the first 90 days.
The wells validate our type curve increase at year-end 2014.
These wells were drilled across three separate townships and we continue to see very consistent and repeatable results as we work to HBP our acreage.
When you average the 30 STACK wells we have released over the last two years the 30-day average oil percentage is greater than 80%.
Again this is an oil play and our acreage was purposely assembled in the updip portion of the play in what we call the oil window.
This is the area that we targeted and we're really proud to own it today.
As we move south and west towards the traditional Cana play one would expect the gas cuts to become materially higher.
We have about 100 wells planned for the Anadarko Basin in 2015 and we're gathering data very quickly.
There are an additional 15 operated wells in the basin that have recently commenced production or are in various stages of completion.
We look forward to sharing more long-term production history with you around mid-year.
Let me comment on an issue that has come up in a few of our investor meetings and discussions gas oil ratio or GOR.
We are seeing very high oil production in the early life of our wells.
This production is holding up extremely well in our longest dated wells.
Our oldest well was drilled four years to test the STACK concept.
After four years that well is still producing 62% black oil.
In addition to the first STACK test we also had the benefit of more than 2 000 vertical wells drilled and completed over the last half century.
These wells had commingled production from a multitude of shallower horizons all sourced by the Woodford formation one of the nation's most prolific source rocks.
Form this large data set of legacy vertical producers we took a representative sample across our acreage position and examined the GOR over time.
Although the oil volumes from these vertical wells weren't impressive by today's standards what was impressive was the consistency of the GOR over the life of the wells.
On slide eight in @NFX we shared our original six-well sample with you.
We used this information to create our type curve assumptions.
To date our four oldest wells which now have at least two years of production history have performed in line with our forecast GOR.
The GOR is remarkably consistent with our sample of legacy vertical wells and with our early type curve assumptions in STACK.
Our model GOR assumptions appear to be very sound.
Recall that our economic assumptions for the STACK play assume an average oil yield of about 40% over the life of the well.
That's a three stream production representing 40% oil 30% NGLs.
That'd be 70% total liquids over the life of the well the balance being 30% natural gas.
We know that the GOR will increase over time and we feel that our forecasts are in line with our expectations and performance observed to date.
We believe that Newfield controls the best acreage in the play.
And as you move west again we expect the play to ultimately transition to dry gas.
Our original lease capture was focused on the oil window.
So make no mistake.
The plays on our STACK acreage are oil plays.
Slide nine shows that the initial oil cumes in STACK are very high.
Over the first five years we estimate we will produce about 60% of the total recoverable oil and nearly 80% in the first 10 years.
Our high initial oil rates in the early life of these wells materially enhance our returns even at the budgeted $60 three-year average oil outlook.
Slide 10 shows the first year economics of the STACK well computed on a three-stream basis.
Our production as reported as wellhead production or two-stream oil and natural gas but it's important that you understand the economic uplift created by three-stream processing.
Our operating teams in the Anadarko Basin are doing a fantastic job today and we are leading the industry.
The initial learnings from our SCOOP development have been rapidly applied to STACK.
Our most recent wells have been drilled and completed for about $8.5 million gross already in line with our full-year average forecast.
Our well costs are down nearly 50% on a cost per lateral foot basis over the last three years and we're excited about where we may be by year-end 2015.
The real prize lies in development mode while we are certain that significant savings can be realized.
There's no better comparison in the Williston which is now in full development.
Our 10 000-foot lateral wells in the Williston are today being drilled in just 15 days from common pad locations for an industry-leading low cost of less than $6 million including facility cost.
My final point today relates to the significant resource potential in stacking development wells in multiple horizons across our acreage.
The STACK play has more than 700 feet of oil saturated column in the Woodford and Meramec shales.
Our competence in well performance was demonstrated at year-end when we increased our STACK type curve by 20% to our current estimate of 950 000 barrels.
To date we've completed four spacing tests in STACK all with very encouraging early results.
As illustrated on slide 11 in @NFX we now have tests in the Woodford-Woodford Meramec-Meramec and Woodford-Meramec as tight as 880 feet apart horizontally and 175 feet apart vertically.
Although it's way too early for definitive conclusions the average for these eight wells has performed in line with our 950 000 BOE type curve.
And three additional operated spacing tests are planned for later this year.
We kept our remarks brief this morning to leave ample time for your questions.
I will close simply by saying Newfield has high quality options in SCOOP and STACK today and we are taking the right steps to ensure we position the company to compete and win in today's environment and accelerate development in the future.
To date we have delivered outstanding operating results and we intend to deliver on our full-year objectives.
Thanks for your investment in our company.
We look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Yeah.
Hi Lee.
One question one follow-up.
First question is the $8.5 million well cost is impressive and how do you see that working down over the next couple of years with pad efficiencies? Then of course we're all asking the same question of operators how much of that is service deflation versus operator efficiency? And my follow-up is the target zone in either the Meramec or the Woodford how thick is the zone you're trying to stay in? Are you measuring that in tens of feet or is that less than 10 feet? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay well Subash good to talk to you this morning.
I think you've got three or four questions in two so I'll compliment you on that as well.
I'll try to cover them all.
So the first one on $8.5 million we're super pleased to be at the $8.5 million line at the end of the first quarter.
When you think about the forecast that we put forth at the beginning of the year we were thinking $8.5 million would be a good average outcome for the year.
So I would tell you that we're ahead of schedule.
Of the savings that have been realized to date to get to that $8.5 million it's split about half service costs and half efficiency gains.
So the part that we really like is the efficiency gains side of the equation because that's the piece that we get to hold on to when market conditions turn and commodity prices rise again.
So ahead of expectations year-to-date.
I indicated we think that we'll have additional gains as the year unfolds.
We'll also have the benefit of – we had a lot of carryover activity into the quarter that would be included in those costs and we hope to see a better run rate as we approach midyear.
So look forward to us giving you an update midyear and we'll give you some clarity on what we think the balance of the year is going to be.
As far as the STACK play the Meramec sections depending on where you're at let's say it's 300 feet to 500-feet thick.
Generally the Woodford sections 150 feet 250 feet thick.
We talk about it as being a 700-foot thick oil saturated section.
When we acquired the acreage position we set out to buy it; we didn't buy edges.
So as you move away from our acreage position north south and east you do approach edges but we don't have material edges if you will from a conventional standpoint within our acreage footprint so that's a positive.
I think it's one of the contributors to the consistent results that we're seeing across the acreage block.
And I would bet at the end of the day that we'll develop horizons that will be somewhere between 100 to 200-foot thick target intervals.
And with regard to targeting within this section we've not worked out all of the details yet in terms of specific windows.
But clearly the team's got the ability to land in 10 foot 20 foot horizons and stay there over the course of the 10 000-foot lateral.
But generally we want to think about it as how many layers can we develop in this 700-foot section.
We've got to drill additional spacing tests and get more definitive data there to give you an answer on that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go to our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Lee in your prepared comments you basically mentioned that at some point there could be a right time to ramp up in SCOOP and STACK.
Can you provide a little bit more color around the thought process there on when you would ramp? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that we indicated when we came out with the $1.2 billion budget that we were going to be – remain focused on financial strength.
I think we've done some things to further bolster that during the course of the first quarter.
Ultimately as you know Leo we've been navigating towards balance.
So I think that some upside in terms of the commodity some improvements in margins generation of incremental cash flow I think that's what we'd like to see.
Those types of conditions translating to having more resources available to deploy we'll probably more likely not translate into accelerated activity.
We think accelerated activity is the right first priority for the company coming out of this.
We want to get the acreage HBPed and we want to get to development as quickly as we can.
That's helpful.
And I guess just looking at the Meramec I'm trying to get a sense of what your longest-producing wells are in that zone.
I think you guys originally targeted more the Woodford I think you said your oldest Woodford well was roughly four years just trying to get a sense of your longest producing Meramec well.
And if you'd also just comment on how long your recent downspacing pad is at Meramec? (21:08).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Gary give you some color on that one.
Yeah the history on the Meramec is it's about four years as far as the longest history we have.
As far as the additional downspacing we've got three well pairs planned for this year at 880 feet and we're going to be in one non-operated spacing unit that I think will be conceivably a little tighter than that.
All right.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen – I'm sorry.
Our next question comes from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dave.
So real quickly looking at the production guidance and obviously a big Q1 beat if I take the midpoint of the 2Q production guidance you already at the low end or completed half of your production for the full year.
Can you walk through a little bit on maybe why the conservatism in forward guidance or what might have prevented you from accelerating that at this point? And if I missed that earlier in the call I apologize.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No not at all Dave.
Thanks for your question.
I think that the – we're certainly in a good position.
I think the 2015 plan is shaping up well at this stage and we like where we sit.
There's a great deal of activity in SCOOP today down in the south.
It's both operated and non-operated.
What you can't see and maybe don't fully appreciate all the logistical challenges when everybody's getting in starting to develop out there and drilling spacing units.
So there are periods that you have to plan for shut-ins and other activities along with the normal sequencing with regard to pad drilling.
So we've got two other variables there that in a perfect world you wouldn't have to deal with.
So we're shutting our wells in when offset operators are completing theirs.
They're shutting theirs in when we're completing ours.
And that's part of everybody that's playing down there's production forecast at this point.
So I'll tell you that's something we do take into account.
I think the second quarter does give you some indications.
We see a nice uptick in production and certainly you've got a commitment I think we stated it in the call if not I'll make it clear here.
We'll certainly revisit our forecast for the year around midyear.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then in the past you've been pretty active with bolt-on acreage transactions and you've been vocal that that's certainly something that you'd look at going forward.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about that today? Has the environment changed? Is it a tighter supply-demand environment with respect to accumulating acreage? Any kind of color there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well thanks for that question.
I think it does give us (24:03).
At first I'll start out with saying we've got many opportunities today.
So we're long on options and long opportunities.
We've talked about the most important priority.
First of those is HBPing our acreage.
I think we're well on our way.
We've got a good schedule.
We think things could develop where we can actually accelerate the HBP which would allow us to accelerate development.
And certainly the payoff for our investors is getting to the development stage in the play.
So that's number one on our list.
Clearly coring up our lease positions I mean throughout our history we've tried to do that and I think it makes sense.
It's something that we want to do.
We think we've identified the core of the play.
We know where we want to be in that regard and we're going to continue to stay focused on that.
As for deals we continue to look.
But I'd tell you given the slight rise in commodity prices I think that in today's world many of the sellers have what we believe are very unrealistic expectations.
In fact I'd go so far as to say that maybe even sky-high expectations.
So in that regard we'll stay in the game but Newfield's not going to make an investment that doesn't make sense.
And we'll go to our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks guys.
As I think about your STACK results and I think you were just hitting on that kind of mowin' the lawn as you move into development mode and you are factoring in that offset downtime.
Is it development mode this year? Is it development mode next year? Just trying to think of when things transition from HBP to true development and how that STACK oil wells waiting on completion with kind of inventory builds and then contracts as you think through the remaining 12 months? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right I'll take the first part of that and then I'll let Gary fill in the blanks for anything I leave out.
I like the mowing the lawn analogy.
I typically call it Sherman's March to the Sea.
I think that's really the place that we want to get to.
I mean getting into development mode when you've got thousands of locations and the best team in the business strong completing wells for you we want to get there as quick as we can.
I think we've been consistent over the course of the last year to talk notionally at sort of the planned activity levels that we think will be a couple years before we're really into development mode.
So I'd say it's more of a 2017 event than a 2015 2016 event to the extent that business conditions develop to allow us to accelerate we certainly could pull that back this direction.
But I suspect that I'd stay focused on 2017 as being the year that we shift into development mode.
Gary you got anything you want to add? Well in 2016 we ought to have about three-quarters of our acreage HBPed.
And as we alluded to acceleration of activity will lead to acceleration of learnings which then allow us to capture more of the cost savings earlier than being in full development.
But as Lee suggested 2017's the year in which we step into multi-well pads.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Gary just said something to trigger another thought.
When you think about the costs that are being delivered and the returns that are being delivered today these are first wells in a drilling spacing unit.
It's just amazing what we're able to deliver in this play today.
So we're super excited and I can't wait to get into development mode.
And we'll go to our next question from Sean Sneeden with Oppenheimer.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Sean.
Maybe Lee or Larry a follow-up from the M&amp;A question.
if you guys think about and recognizing kind of where we are with the strip but if you think about just the general concept of M&amp;A is the preference for you guys to stay within the current footprint or would you guys look to expand into other areas? What kind of would drive one or the other? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Larry take the lead on that.
Yeah.
I mean the way we look at that is we've got such a great operating capability.
We're always going to lean toward the operating footprint we have.
We have a lot to do in the Anadarko Basin to secure the value.
So I don't see us kind of going outside the current operating footprint.
It would have to be a pretty amazing deal for us.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just maybe one housekeeping question.
On G&amp;A in the quarter it looked a little bit above guidance.
Was that mainly due to the closing of the office? And if so what do you think kind of run rate G&amp;A at this point? Yeah.
So we had some extra costs associated with one-time charges.
In January we had a reduction in force.
It costs us about $10 million.
And recently which will hit us in the second quarter we've got some reorganization costs which are going to end up – again being additional throughout the year that total at $35 million.
That's inclusive of our lease in Denver.
And in terms of the actual G&amp;A there's also some costs associated with the rise in the share price attributable to our cash-doubled shares and the way we look at our share plans that are noncash aspect.
So you're seeing a slight rise in that just because of the winds at our backs on our stock price.
In terms of the savings you're going to see from the actions we've taken I mentioned in the call script we're going to see about $40 million of saving start to roll in in 2016 and beyond.
And we're just getting our arms around that now we're pretty excited about the impact of that as well as the impact on the interest expense segment you saw.
Our next question comes from Robert Du Boff with Oppenheimer and Co.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I just wanted to move real quick to the Uinta Basin.
I'm just curious how oil differentials and service costs are trending in that basin and what conditions you need to maybe pick up activity there going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start off with the service cost reductions and I'll flip it to Larry on the differentials.
As far as service cost by this point we've dropped all our rigs so it's difficult to actually measure them but we can certainly impute them from some of the other areas.
So we have an active program being undertaken right now to project some of the new completion efficiencies that we're seeing elsewhere.
And looking at what that impact would be in our central basin horizontal program.
But we think it would be significant.
I would expect that we would see above average i.e.
beyond 20% 30% savings if we were going to get out there and re-drill a well today.
Again the team's working on that and we look forward to an opportunity to put a rig back in there and test some of these things out.
And on differentials what you've seen is with the oil price fall the way our contracts are structured many of them have historically guided toward a variable percentage in the oil price.
Actually at this low point in the price cycle you start having more impact from the part of our contracts that are fixed expense and so when we look at that differentials have actually kind of gone to $14 which is a much higher percentage differential.
And so we see that as certainly punitive on the quarter but with the rise in share price you'll start to see that come back – the rise in oil price you'll see that come back in line with kind of more historical percentages.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The only thing I'd add to some of the comments here is the focus we've had on operating expense reduction and that applies to the Uinta where they've really been leading the charge as far as driving down their cost structure but everybody across the board.
I think in the quarter we showed 15% 16% reduction.
I think we're just getting started there.
I think there's some other opportunities and I would hope we'd be in an 18% to 20% by year-end on our overall operating expense.
So a lot of great work going in there to becoming more efficient and preserve our margins.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Congratulations again on a good quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And we have time for one last question from Richard Tullis with Capital One Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you.
Lee just get back to Anadarko Basin.
It looked like there was a little bit of a downtick in average initial rate per lateral foot if you adjust for the lateral in the SCOOP.
What was primarily driving that? Was it just drilled in a different area versus like 14 well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'll let Gary Packer give you some color on that because he's certainly intimate with the details there.
So as you noticed we had a good step up in average rates 30 day 60 day 90 day in STACK.
To really understand what's going on in SCOOP the summary of it is it's just a function that we have more oil and less gas and therefore on a BOE basis it's translating to what appears to be a lower number.
If you wanted a little bit more granularity in that when you actually look at the oil phase that we're pursuing out there we really only drilled one well there and that particular well it was a slightly longer well but it was the – one of the furthest east wells we've drilled.
And as we move east in the play we pick up a higher oil percentage.
In this case we actually had a 61% oil cut versus the prior year at about 50% or so.
When you move into the wet gas last year we had a considerable number of wells that we were drilled.
And those wells produced at about 26% oil cut.
This year the wells that we've drilled the five that we reported were at 30% oil cut.
And that's really a function of choke management.
What the teams have developed and we've been talking about this for quite a while reducing our drawdowns and holding these wells back a little bit earlier on and we're finding some of the additional benefits not only in increasing our EUR is the fact we're actually getting a higher liquids cut in the separator as a result of that.
So really compliment them for continuing to look at their operating practices and it's really going to get translated to the bottom line.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Gary.
And just real quick could you provide an update on activity in China and what sort of pricing you're realizing in the second quarter oil pricing? As far as the activity we are now concluding our drilling operations.
Things were done very well.
I think production's gross basis is somewhere around 24 000 barrels a day and we still have another well that we're going to be bringing on production.
So that's going real well.
Larry as far as pricing in the (35:12)? Yeah.
On the prices so what we saw in the first quarter if you relate it to WTI we saw about $2 premium on our sales in the Pearl River which is the bulk of the revenue.
I think you'll see that improve slightly this year; it'll get a little better.
So pretty much in line with what we thought.
And we have time for one last question from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Hi.
Good morning.
Lee I think it was a couple of quarters ago you talked about in the lower section of the Meramec and looks like that's been one of your better wells.
And I was just wondering if you have any other tests in that lower section among the wells that you haven't identified as upper or lower and if you have a view today of whether you have two potential horizons in the Meramec? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'll start by saying when we got into the play and we first started talking about it if you go back a couple of years ago now we started talking publicly.
We said that ultimately we thought there would be three to five horizons to be developed across the acreage.
I think that we've got a good line of sight that that's still a reasonable range of estimates.
We're going to need to drill additional multi wells facing pilots to kind of refine that estimate.
As far as individual tests our team is testing upper lower middle upper middle lower middle upper Woodford lower Woodford.
And one of these days we'll get around to testing the Osage which sits between the two.
It's oil saturated as well.
So we're going to continue to test multiple intervals within the 700-foot section and we'll just keep you posted as it goes.
But I'll tell you that top middle bottom it's all working and it's only going to get better from here.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Lee Boothby for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
I'd just like to thank everybody again for your interest and your investment in Newfield.
We're excited about where we're at today.
I hope you can take that away from the call.
We've got a great team and they're delivering great results and we look forward to updating you on our progress as the year continues to unfold.
Have a great day.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.