Welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration Second Quarter Conference Call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I will turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this very early start today.
By now I hope you've had a chance to review our release from last evening at our @NFX which had a lot of new details on our exciting STACK play in the Anadarko Basin.
We plan to reference some of these slides in @NFX so please have it ready during the discussion.
Speakers on our call today include Chairman Lee Boothby; our COO Gary Packer; and our CFO Larry Massaro who will all be available at the end of the prepared remarks today to answer any of your questions.
As always please limit your time during Q&amp;A to one question and one follow-up.
This simply allows us to get to more of your questions.
Before handing the call over to Lee let me remind you that today's call is being recorded and it will be available on our website along with today's earnings release the accompanying financial tables and other non-GAAP reconciliations.
Today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions that are based on our current views and our most reasonable expectations.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed this morning.
A full disclaimer is provided in our earnings release and in our most recent filing to the SEC.
Thanks again for dialing in and I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and we appreciate your interest and investment in our company.
Newfield is delivering strong results today across the company's portfolio.
We will see in today's @NFX that we met or exceeded our expectations across all of our operating regions.
Although the focus today is on the Anadarko Basin team Newfield is (1:46) extremely well.
We had markedly lower well costs in the Anadarko and Williston Basins and we extended the track record of exceeding production expectations in the Eagle Ford Williston and Uinta Basins.
Our teams are looking for innovative ways to lower operating expenses enhance margins across the business and their efforts are flowing through to our bottom line.
I'm confident we have the people and assets in place today to emerge stronger and more profitable once commodity prices stabilize.
But make no doubt about it these are challenging and volatile times in the E&amp;P business.
After about five years of oil prices in the $90s we are today coming to grips with oil prices in the $50s and implications of a lower prolonged price scenario.
We are proactively making strategic decisions to manage our business through today's cycle.
Our business plan differentiates Newfield today as we focus on two primary issues.
First ensuring that our balance sheet remains strong and that we have ample liquidity in place to build shareholder value during today's oil price environment and to emerge stronger when prices recover.
Our hedges provide certainty in our cash flows through early 2017.
Second we are high-grading our investments.
Today nearly all of our activity is in the Anadarko Basin.
There is a healthy tension between our desire to build inventory in the Anadarko Basin and accelerate STACK development and the need to protect liquidity.
Today we increased our capital budget to $1.4 billion up $200 million.
The increase relates to adding about 20 000 net acres to extend our positions in the Anadarko Basin our decision to accelerate drilling to hold our acreage and move into full-field development.
Anadarko Basin is economically resilient and our returns are improving.
By drilling an additional 15 wells in 2015 we will offset about $40 million of lease renewal expenses and ensure that 100% of our acreage is HBP by the end of next year.
We believe that our business plan carefully balances these important issues.
The financial transactions we executed earlier this year strengthened our balance and ensured that we have ample liquidity to not only weather a prolonged period of lower oil prices but also to succeed and add value.
We will maintain a strong balance sheet.
We are focused on maintaining our leverage ratios at or near current levels and we would look to sell other noncore assets as required to preserve our strong balance sheet and liquidity.
Exactly one year ago today we were growing more concerned about the trajectory of oil prices and moved aggressively to strengthen our hedge position.
Our fears were founded and our hedges have been instrumental in preserving our cash flow.
In mark-to-market at the end of July our hedge position would add about $490 million in revenue in 2015 and an additional $250 million in 2016.
This gives us higher certainty in our future cash flow and we view our hedges as a differentiator amongst our peers.
Our corporate development team and strategic planning teams have done an excellent job of mitigating risk and putting our company in a position of relative strength and I applaud their efforts.
Over the last five years we took dramatic steps to better focus our portfolio in capital investments.
Before the oil price decline last year we had executed about $2.5 billion in non-strategic asset sales and used the large (5:11-5:13) the development of SCOOP and STACK and this has paid off.
We will continue to consider using sale of additional non-strategic assets to fund our future acceleration plans.
In early 2015 we quickly cut our capital expenditures and funneled more than 70% of our planned investments into the Anadarko Basin.
We are fortunate to have an asset today that warrants investment and provides strong returns at today's oil prices.
You will clearly see today that our returns in the Anadarko Basin continue to improve.
Even with the backdrop of low oil prices we believe it makes sense to further consolidate into one of the industry's best plays and use our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin.
Competition for acreage in the STACK region has increased in the face of better drilling results.
We are successfully adding late-stage leasehold and extensional acreage today.
With the disconnect between buyer and seller expectations for acquisition opportunities in the region we view acreage additions as a better value proposition to exploit our distinct operating advantage.
Perhaps the drop in oil prices and the realization that oil prices could stay lower for longer will create more reasonable acquisition opportunities for us in the future.
Before we go on to the second quarter details let me quickly summarize what I believe are the key takeaways in today's operations update.
Number one our well results in STACK are improving.
In today's @NFX we share with you results from an additional 17 STACK wells and continued strong performance from our SCOOP development drilling.
To date we have drilled and completed 46-operated SXL wells in STACK.
Number two we are rapidly production-delineating our STACK acreage as we push to get it held by production.
The wells we have drilled to date are geographically dispersed and we continue to push rigs towards the edges as we align drilling plans with lease requirements.
We are encouraged by the consistent and commercial results we are realizing across the acreage.
The acceleration in STACK allows us to minimize lease renewal cost through higher value drilling investments.
The rigs we've added are on a well-to-well basis and we have the ability to quickly slow investments if oil prices further deteriorate our cash flow outlook.
Number three our STACK wells are oil wells.
We built our position in STACK in the oil window and our wells are averaging about 80% black oil in the first 30 days production.
To date average black oil volumes from our 46 wells are outperforming our type-curve assumptions.
Slide 11 in @NFX depicts this outperformance and supports why our confidence is continuing to grow.
Later in our remarks we'll better explain how the play transitions from wet gas to black oil across the play fairway.
Before we were testing multiple geologic horizons and this will be a STACKed development play.
To date we have successfully tested the Upper and Lower Meramec as well as the Woodford.
There are other prospective zones that we plan to test in the coming months.
To date about 70% of our STACK wells have been drilled and completed in the Meramec shale.
We are rapidly lowering our well cost in the Anadarko Basin.
This is particularly impressive in STACK where we are not yet in full-field development.
Recent wells have been drilled in as few as 12 days and our recent wells are averaging about $7.9 million including facilities.
We hope to keep a good portion of these savings even in a rising oil price environment.
Our well costs today are down about $600 000 from our first quarter update and we know that in development mode we will easily shave another $1 million or more off the completed well cost.
By analogy simply look at what our team is delivering today in the Williston Basin.
And lastly we're accelerating activity and the timing to full-field development.
By year-end about 60% of our acreage in STACK will be held by production and all of our acreage will be HBP by the end of next year.
With this increased activity we now expect that our fourth quarter production from the Anadarko Basin will average about 71 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net and we expect to deliver strong and economic growth from SCOOP and STACK in 2016.
You will hear more on these topics when Gary provides our operational update a little later.
I'll now turn the call over to Larry Massaro to summarize our second quarter financial results.
Larry? Thanks Lee and good morning everyone.
Financially the second quarter was very solid.
We are seeing the combined benefits of lower service costs learning curve improvements and efficiency gains and our own efforts to reduce expenses and improve margins across the business.
Year-to-date we've invested about $730 million excluding capitalized interest and internal cost.
We expect that our investments in the second half of the year will approximate the first half including about $400 million in the third quarter and $275 million in the fourth quarter.
Our capital investment budget for the year is $1.4 billion up $200 million.
The increase is attributable to 20 000 new acres in the Anadarko Basin increased drilling activity and faster drilling times.
In terms of production we extended a healthy streak of beating our projections through solid execution of strong well performance.
Our domestic production in the second quarter came in at the upper end of our guidance despite losing about 200 000 barrels equivalent related to weather and our midstream provider's curtailment in SCOOP.
Total production in the second quarter was 14.1 million barrels equivalent of which 51% was oil and 65% was liquids.
Our domestic production grew about 7% quarter-over-quarter to 12.4 million barrels equivalent.
Adjusted for asset sales this represents year-over-year growth of 13%.
More importantly our domestic liquids production was up 22% year-over-year.
The strength in our production year-to-date has allowed us to raise our full year guidance to 53.5 million to 55 million barrels equivalent with all the increase attributed to our domestic operations.
Our domestic production is now expected to be 48.5 million to 50 million barrels equivalent.
Discretionary cash flow from operations was $347 million or $2.14 per share topping consensus estimates.
Adjusted net income for the quarter excluding several one-time items detailed in our earnings release was $0.46 per share.
The most significant item was a non-cash ceiling test write-down related to the significant drop in oil prices.
(12:05-12:07) expected and was in line with our recent disclosures in our Form 10-Q.
This is a non-cash charge.
It has no impact on our credit facility or our debt covenants.
These impairments are a function of full-cost accounting and significantly lower commodity price in the 12-month trailing average.
We have taken both prompt and significant steps to improve our cost structure across the company.
In the second quarter our reoccurring lease operating expenses was well below guidance at $4.60 per BOE.
Second quarter LOE was lower than our full-year run rate due to the timing of expected expenditures.
We again lowered our full-year LOE expectation to $5.20 per BOE.
As we noted last quarter our recent restructuring and head count reductions will reduce future G&amp;A expense by $40 million a year and our annual interest expense will drop by about $10 million a year due to the lower interest rates associated with our debt refinancing earlier this year.
As Lee referenced we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity.
As we seek to leverage our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin and our desire to transition to full field development in STACK later next year we know we must tailor our investment levels to the oil price environment and our cash flow expectations.
If oil prices stay in a sub-$50 per barrel range we would likely reduce our 2016 expenditures to maintenance mode levels.
We estimate that we could maintain our domestic production levels for about $1 billion.
Should prices strengthen to $55 to $60 per barrel we are capable of strong domestic production growth supported by improving rates of return with a capital budget similar to 2015 investment levels.
Newfield clearly has high-quality options today.
At the end of the second quarter there was nothing drawn on our revolver and we had approximately $2 billion of liquidity.
We are fortunate to be well ahead with cash flow significantly protected into 2017.
I'll turn the call over to Gary Packer for the operations update.
Thanks Larry.
As you know we are only allocating drilling capital to two areas today the Anadarko and the Williston Basins.
So let me give you an update on the Anadarko Basin and share some recent updates from our operations in STACK.
In addition to STACK we continue to see great results from our SCOOP and Springer plays and look forward to testing other potential geological horizons in the basin over time.
During the second quarter we brought online 14 new SCOOP oil wells including our first SXL well in the Springer shale.
We continue to see good results in the development where we are running five rigs today (15:03-15:05) more heavily to STACK and SCOOP oil and the results are evident to our high oil cuts.
We have eight rigs running in STACK today.
One of our most encouraging data points in today's update relates to our consistency in the STACK wells.
On slide 7 in @NFX we provide 30-day average production rates for 17 new wells stretched across the acreage which covers more than 300 square miles.
We now have 46 SXL wells of which 32 have been completed in the Meramec shale.
We are confident that a significant portion of our acreage will be developed with STACK wells in both the Meramec and the Woodford.
We have drilled five pseudo-pilots to date to test horizontal and vertical well spacing some of which have been online for more than one year now.
Although early these pilots are providing encouraging results.
Please reference the geologic illustration on slide 12 in @NFX.
To date we have successfully tested multiple wells in Upper and Lower Meramec as well as the Woodford.
We have more than 700 foot of saturated interval across the large portion of our acreage and we have taken whole cores throughout the acreage to better understand reservoir quality and reservoir thickness.
As expected our STACK results continue to improve reflecting the rapid advancements we are making in our drilling and completion operations.
Our most recent wells have higher 30- and 60-day rates and not all the wells have 90-day production rates yet.
On a well-head basis the oil percentage from these wells averaged nearly 80% over the first 30 days.
We are not surprised by these high oil cuts.
In fact we intentionally captured the oil window with our initial leasing concept.
Slide 9 is important to understand.
As you move from the dry gas Cana Field to the north and east across our acreage the play transitions from a wet gas to a black oil.
Note that the 30-day average oil cuts across the acreage.
In addition to our first Meramec well drilled some four years ago now we also had production data for more than 3 000 vertical wells drilled over the last 50 years.
These wells commingled production from a multiple of zones all sourced by the Woodford.
The GOR or gas/oil ratios we are seeing today are very consistent with historical production data our pre-drill reservoir modeling and our type curves.
Recent well results from our North STACK acreage helped validate our encouragement and our GOR assumptions appear to be very sound.
In the first quarter we introduced slide 11 which originally just showed our expected oil cumes over the first decade of production.
Today we enhance disclosure by providing you with the actual production from the 46 SXL wells we have drilled to date.
You can see that the wells are highly correlative to our type curve.
Furthermore we today provided actual cumes on 21 Meramec wells with tighter frac cluster spacing.
Some of these wells have now been online for nearly one year.
Tighter frac cluster spacing is generating significantly higher oil production and has now become our norm.
We continue to optimize our completion design.
You can see we are making great strides.
Based on our 950 000 barrels of oil equivalent type curve and today's lower cost our wells are expected to pay out in just two years.
Our returns are being enhanced by higher oil production early and the significant reductions we are making in well costs.
See slides 14 and 15 in @NFX.
It's important to understand that more than half of the cost savings we have seen to date are related to efficiencies as demonstrated by reductions in days versus depth and not simply lower service costs.
Our most recent drill and complete cost in STACK is $7.9 million down $600 000 from our first quarter average.
We frequently participate in wells operated by others.
And from this data (19:20-19:22) industry in drilling days and cost.
Our days to depth on our most recent operated wells have been drilled in as few as 12 days.
The real prize lies in development mode where we are certain that we will achieve at least another $1 million savings in our completed well cost.
And our teams are pushing to get us there as soon as possible.
As for other active development plays let me close with a quick update on the Williston Basin.
Our team continues to find innovative ways to improve our margins through faster drilling times improved efficiencies and optimized completions.
Recent SXL wells in the Williston Basin have been drilled in about 14 days and for an all-in cost with facilities of about $5.5 million.
Newfield has a long and proven history of driving learning curves and improving returns in full-field development.
The Williston is a great example.
You can review recent history and see the same trends in the Eagle Ford the Granite Wash the Arkoma and in SCOOP.
The Williston is a great proxy for where we will ultimately be heading in our STACK development.
I'll now turn the call back to Lee for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Gary.
Gary and his teams are delivering excellent results throughout our operating regions today (20:44-20:45) excel in today's environment.
You can tell from the tone today that we are excited about our recent results in the Anadarko Basin.
This is a large-scale resource play and we have the people and the operational expertise to continue improving results and enhancing margins.
We're focused on the right metrics today.
We're executing across the company.
We are high-grading our investments.
We have effectively managed our risk.
We are aggressively attacking costs and expenses and improving margins.
We're exploiting our competitive advantage in the Anadarko Basin.
And we are mindful of our balance sheet and we'll work to maintain a strong liquidity position.
I will close by simply saying Newfield has high quality options today.
To date we have delivered outstanding operating results and we intend to deliver on our full-year objectives.
Yes these are challenging times but Newfield is well-positioned to continue delivering value to its stockholders today (21:40-21:43).
Thanks for your investment in our company and we look forward to taking your questions.
Operator? And we'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Morning Dave.
Hey thank you so much for all the additional disclosures.
Really helpful and certainly showing a consistency that's appreciated.
One thing when I was looking at the forward oil guidance I was hoping maybe you could dive into this a little bit more.
Obviously implies a trend upward still for the balance of the year.
But that's primarily domestic-oriented with international coming down.
Can you just talk about the nuances of those two things? Well as far as the relationship clearly domestically we're driving the oil production out of the Anadarko Basin and you're going to see a significant ramp up as we look into the third and the fourth quarter.
If you look at international as far as the cash flow that's going to be coming off of that asset it's rather flat in 2015 and 2016 and then will decline in the future years.
As far as production goes we'll see production down in China about 20% or 25% next year but we're going to preserve the cash flows just because we'll have a lack of capital spending.
So everything is coming in exactly as we had anticipated both domestically and internationally.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave just to clarify if your question was in regards to this year the China guidance is unchanged at 5 million barrels.
The difference between the second quarter and the third quarter is simply timing of lifting.
We had an extra lifting that moved into the second quarter.
The daily rate is around 26 000 barrels a day so that's our peak rate from the wells that are on.
Well I appreciate that clarification.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
And then as we think (23:46-23:50) curve that you guys are climbing rapidly in the Anadarko Basin can you talk a little bit about how you balance downspacing interval testing and completion science in this low-cost environment? Does it make more sense to find an area that holds all the production that you know you're generating strong returns and just pursuing that aggressively? Or does this more sort of balance the production testing all of these things make more sense? Just if you give us some clarity around that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll start Dave.
If you look at @NFX we've got the dimensions on kind of the acreage footprint.
You do a quick math on that you're talking about an area that's in excess of 1 200 square miles.
If you take a look at the phase envelope data where we've got all of the oil yield data the 80% liquid yield and we've kind of highlighted where you moved from the dry gas into the wet gas condensate window into our oily acreage.
Right now with the drilling results that have been accumulated driven by Newfield the addition of some of the – our friends in the industry offset operators if you will you've got a box that's about 30 miles by 50 miles diagonally across that acreage position.
So some 1 500 square miles that's been production delineated and we're talking production delineated with (25:17-25:20) and it's a large resource.
Our focus first and foremost: HBP the acreage.
The acceleration program allows us to finish that process before year-end 2016.
We will continue to test laterals on either side of lease lines and the paired spacing information that we've put out to date just makes sense but it doesn't make sense in our view to move away from the focus on HBP at this point to drill full spacing pilots.
Just no need.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The well results have been so amazingly consistent top to bottom through the 700-foot thick interval that I'm kind of excited about thinking we'll get into development mode we'll have a fully HBP footprint and we'll have a couple of miles between producing wells and we'll be able to let the team go in and develop it the right way right up front so we're going to stick to our plan.
And we'll take our next question from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Good morning.
My first question is about those eastern wells.
There was I guess a different IP30 is how you're thinking of the economics of those wells versus those due west and if there's any changes there in terms of cost or decline curves.
I know it's early but if there's any conclusions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the conclusions are we're excited about those eastern tests.
You'll recall that that was part of the plan.
Actually in 2014 into 2015 we wanted to expand the footprint.
You'll note that there are overlays structurally across that acreage footprint that kind of give you a picture that in the far eastern edge northeastern portion of the acreage footprint TVD depths are about 8 000 feet.
The western edge you approach 12 000 feet.
So clearly there is a 4 000-foot-or-so change in elevation from east to west.
But as far as the well results they are very much in line with our expectations; and since the ultimate targets are shallower on the eastern side we would expect ultimately in development mode that those wells will be cheaper than the wells drilled on the western side of the acreage.
But at this point I would say very excited and positive and results in line with expectations.
Great.
Thanks.
And my follow-up is in the average wells a couple were not included in the list at sub-optimal completion could you just then maybe talk about how you were completing the wells and how you are now completing the wells? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Gary give you some color on that.
Yes Subash there were only two wells that we had excluded from the data that we provided disclosure on.
Those wells both tested larger stage spacing and cluster spacing and as a result of that they achieved rates that are really not representative of what we think our forward plan is.
The number that we have in there those wells produced a 60-day rate of about 625 barrels of oil equivalent a day or about 80% of the tighter spacing wells.
So still very interesting wells but we just don't think represents what our forward plan is.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Subash I know Gary talked about it in the call but if we look at slide 11 the tighter frac clusters in the Meramec are yielding higher than accelerated oil recovery hence the focus on the tighter cluster spacing now that we have proven that that's the way to go in this play.
And our next question comes from Jason Smith of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Jason.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> So we – you guys in the past have done a great job of monetizing your non-core assets over the past few years.
With the clear focus on the Anadarko can you just maybe give an update on where you stand on that process and kind of where all the moving pieces fit in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the steps we took earlier this year certainly the equity raise and the revolver extension and the debt offering that Larry talked about earlier leave us with $2 billion of liquidity there.
So I'd say first and foremost we don't have any pressing needs to sell any assets today but I think we've been crystal clear – at least I hope we've been.
I'll try to make it crystal clear in response to your question.
But the non-strategic assets it's not a question of if it's just a question of when.
And we know how hard it was to sell $2.5 billion of non-strategic assets in a $90 world.
We have no pressing need to sell it but certainly at the right place and time we would sell non-strategic assets to further accelerate activity in the Anadarko.
Just go on record for that statement but all things being equal since we don't need to sell I'd probably prefer to sell in something other than a $50 oil price environment.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
I appreciate that.
And also I appreciate the commentary around 2016.
So I want to make sure first that I understand that 55% to 60% is kind of the bogey right now for grow or don't grow.
And then I think you guys were at 10 rigs in the Anadarko last quarter.
Can you just give an update on where you are today and what lead time you need if you do decide to ramp further? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Larry give you some color.
And if he forgets anything like he sometimes does I'll jump in and cover him.
How about that? Yeah.
Look guys.
I think at 55% to 60% we're going to have a nice growth rate so I'm not worried about our ability to grow differentially in the industry.
When you get to the $50 in the current oil price environment we're still going to be in more of a maintenance mode but that still really gives us some modest growth so don't look for us at $50 to go flat.
We'll still have a little growth in the portfolio.
The STACK and SCOOP plays are going to continue to drive that.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Du Boff with Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
I saw you added 20 000 acres in Anadarko Basin.
Can you just talk about how costs are trending for picking up acreage and the potential to continue to add there and basically what is your I guess threshold in terms of looking at maybe the gassier side of the STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So Robert I appreciate your question.
I think we've given all the color that I plan to give at this time.
We'll keep you posted on our efforts there as the year unfolds and at year-end we'll give you a full update on our acreage position where we're at.
Let's just say that we're very pleased with the additions and I think it makes good sense that we're able to execute on our clear competitive advantage in the basin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And if I can get a follow-up then.
Just hoping to get maybe a little more color on that $7 million level target for the STACK.
Does that just purely represent savings in full-development mode? Or does that contemplate any further service cost cuts? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So yeah.
What I said in the call was that hats off to Gary and our operating teams and our management.
Between Gary and the operating teams they've just done a fantastic job.
I mean the progress in the Williston Basin the progress in the Anadarko Basin both SCOOP and STACK industry-leading results today drilling STACK wells in as little as 12 days.
You go back and look at the @NFX and see the progression year by year.
So these are the best kind of gains.
Largely there are gains from exceptional teamwork exceptional talents driving down the learning curve.
So when we talk about experiences in the second quarter I'll tell you that today my expectation was 7.5-ish million dollars probably (33:06) today.
We're going to drive those towards $6.5 million and hopefully in the course of moving new development as we indicated in the call there's another $1 million or so to drive out of the equation.
You can look at the Williston Basin.
You can see what we've done there.
Gary referenced the Arkoma.
If you want to go all the way back to Granite Wash we've done it every place we choose to deploy.
So these are normal natural progressions that we expect to accrue and we're running ahead of schedule.
So at that point I would tell you that very pleased.
We've got $7 million in the sights and we're not going to stop there.
Gary you got any color you want to add? No I mean there's no further service cost reductions baked in to our forecast.
And our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
I was hoping you could give us a little bit more detail on some of the spacing tests that you guys have in place at this point.
And then I guess you guys feel confident at this point that the Upper and the Lower Meramec are distinct reservoirs and could you maybe talk about some of the different spacing numbers you guys are using for inter-well spacing between the Woodford Lower and Upper Meramec? In terms of the spacing remember that we haven't done any full pilots at this point so the spacing that we've got we're giving you all that we have which is I think it's a collection of five different two-well pairs that are drilled on either side of lease lines.
If you go back and you look at this @NFX and the last publication all of those are diagrammed.
So what we've done is we've located on either side of the lease line and we varied spacing down to as tight as 880 feet.
880 feet would be kind of six wells per horizon and we've said consistently that we're very very encouraged with the results that we've seen.
It's all we have at this point.
We've tested multiple levels within the Upper Meramec multiple levels within the Lower Meramec and we've tested the Woodford.
So we've got three horizons that are all working very very nicely and frankly beyond that I'll stick to the story that we've told since we announced the play back in 2013.
Ultimately we expect that there'll probably be three to five horizons exploited in the STACK play across the acreage footprint.
The other side (35:29) get at HBP and continue to improve the data and we'll keep you informed as things unfold.
All right.
I guess just jumping over to your domestic oil production guidance in the third quarter.
Just noticing that it's ticking down a little bit versus the second quarter numbers.
Was just looking for some color beyond that if it's just well timing at this point or maybe there's some conservatism there? Yes.
Primarily what you're looking at is continued declines in those basins that we're no longer investing in both Uinta Basin and Eagle Ford.
And then it's just routine timing of pads and our developments in both SCOOP and STACK.
And we'll go next to Dan Guffey with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Congrats on a really good quarter.
Thanks Dan.
Thank you Dan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> You guys have mentioned 70% of your STACK wells have targeted the Meramec.
I guess how should we think of that split going forward between the Meramec and the Woodford? And then I guess can you discuss any performance differences between the two intervals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think that there's a slide Dan – I don't know if you've had a chance to look at that Dan but you can see how we've kind of distributed the wells to date throughout the section and 70% in the Meramec.
The Meramec is the thicker of the two intervals when you think about Meramec Woodford in terms of the pair.
So logically speaking you could almost see a third a third a third-type distribution.
Just happens to be that 70% of the wells to date have been drilled in the Meramec.
And this is kind of by plan.
So we'll continue to work through that progression.
I think when we get to the end of HBP-ing the operated footprint out here we'll probably have some few hundred plus wells that we'll be able to look at as far as the data set.
And once we see the finish line for HBP then we'll be able to start laying out kind of the full development spacing pilots and get the data that we need to really optimize that development.
But at this point we'll continue to progress as we are.
Probably another one of the drivers that we have there is most of our historical performance whether it's in the Arkoma or down in SCOOP is on the Woodford so we're preferentially investing in the Meramec because it's the newest of the plays and it's quite honestly has a considerable inventory and we're continuing to progress our learnings there and therefore focus on the early drilling.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Remember the original – Gary makes a good point – the original STACK discovery well was a Woodford test.
That led to the recognition that the Meramec was a target.
So really good point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
I guess kind of ask a little bit differently trying to look at your inventory.
I guess can you break out the percent of your total acreage that's prospective for the Woodford? And then how much do you think is prospective for both the Upper and the Lower? I know it changes as you go across the basin but just trying to think of how many – I know you mentioned three to five intervals but how much of that is consistent across the entire acreage block? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that's probably all the color we're going to give today.
We update our inventory calc annually so you can expect the next update on inventory potential to be early next year.
We had 5 500 locations on the books in the Anadarko Basin starting this year and I can say the well results make us feel a little bullish with regard to the upside from there.
And our next question comes from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Lee on that inventory question or you mentioned three to five horizons.
Just to clarify is that just in the Meramec and Woodford or are you including some of the shallower horizons there like the (39:35)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When we're talking about STACK at this point we're talking about the interval from the top of the Meramec to the base of the Woodford and anything in between.
And can you remind us again that 5 500 locations that was included at year-end future locations? What was the assumption in terms of new horizons? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We took the data that we had at year-end based on the tests and the information that had been accrued.
I think if you did the simple math you could probably come back and say that it was around two on average.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the completion improvements.
We've talked about our perf clusters.
Can you talk about what also are you planning to do rest of the year? For instance is there any plans to test a slickwater completions versus the gel fracs that you're doing today? Yeah.
There's a number of things that we're going to be experimenting with everything from gel loading the amount of proppant we use to the type of proppant we use.
We're spending a considerable amount of time looking at different diversion techniques where we can actually go with broader stages cut our costs but nevertheless get the same amount of stimulated rock volume.
We're experimenting with the fluids.
Historically we've been pretty much using crosslink.
Today we're actually looking at not pure slickwater jobs but something that would be viewed as more of a hybrid job.
And then the other thing we're doing is we're looking at actually using field-produced waters to make up the completion fluid.
So our teams are spending a considerable amount of time looking at all of those things.
And our next question comes from Josh Silverstein with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey good morning guys.
I was hoping you guys could just touch a little bit on some of the midstream and the processing and the takeaway capacity out of the basin.
I know it limited you guys by a little bit this quarter.
So anything that you guys are working on with some of your providers to enhance those facilities? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So we were limited a little bit by a turnaround on SCOOP.
That was a little bit unexpected.
That's since been corrected and we're at full capacity down there.
We don't see any limitations in the STACK.
We haven't had any limitations there on gas; that doesn't produce that much gas.
What we're looking at there is creative ways to go gather the oil in lower cost.
So our focus right now is on that.
We don't see limitations coming out of the basin.
There's a number of projects that are being discussed.
We'll continue to expand that whole corridor for the STACK and SCOOP so we're looking at participating in those studies and thinking about how we're going to grow our production there.
We're obviously constrained at the moment.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Great.
And then I know you talked about high-grading to more of the oilier areas within the Anadarko Basin for next year's program.
Is there a high-grading even within the Meramec play as of this point? And I wonder if you're thinking about the Springer opportunity.
Is it going from maybe just a handful of wells to closer to 20 or 30 wells next year? Just to think about the direction there.
First of all within the Meramec we haven't seen any opportunities to high grade.
We're seeing pretty uniform performance like we talked about so nothing within the Meramec.
As we think about SCOOP in the Woodford there will be a general trend for us to move east into the more oily Woodford versus the wet gas Woodford down in SCOOP so certainly there's going to be a move there.
The plan in 2016 is really not set yet.
I anticipate there'll be more Springer activity than what we experienced this year.
But still it's more – still in a state of flux there to determine exactly what those numbers would be.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Remember the Springer there's no real pressing need to install HBP by our Woodford activity to have to accelerate activity so it's simply the high-grading optionality and we'll execute based on our plans and forward forecast.
And we'll go next to Ipsit Mohanty with GMP.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Just looking at your slide 9.
I appreciate the kind of details you've given.
But as you go about HBP-ing the STACK what's your plan to keeping the oily consistent especially when you're going to the Southwestern part you're getting into the dry gas window.
Just curious to see whether you would go ahead and sort of actively drill that to hold it or would you just pass on that? Any color on that please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the answer is we're going to HBP our entire STACK footprint.
All the wells that we're drilling within the Newfield STACK position generate attractive economics in today's commodity price world.
The dry gas the reference is Cana proper.
It's a historical play there in the Anadarko Basin some big well-respected competitors in there like Devon Cimarex and Continental.
They own that; it's HBP.
Frankly if we'd had the opportunity to add that acreage into the portfolio when we were putting this position together we'd have probably done it.
So when you think about Newfield I think the acreage description that we've given you and kind of the yield map if you will tells you the story.
You go back and drill inside of the delineated wells you're going to see average liquid yields in line with what we've delivered today.
We just don't see that there's going to be any variance going forward.
Okay.
And if I heard you correctly you're running eight rigs in the STACK now.
Could you please give us the number of rigs you ran in the SCOOP and STACK in 2Q and currently? In 2Q we would have had five rigs running in SCOOP and five rigs running in STACK.
And right now? Five rigs running in SCOOP and eight rigs running in STACK.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
And it looks like we have time for one more question.
And we'll take our final question from Dan Braziller.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just sorting through the CapEx guidance raise trying to get an incremental net well cost.
Do you know what the average working interest is expected to be for the 15 additional wells you'll be drilling? And then also on CapEx wondering the difference between the $730 million that you've spent so far in the first half compared to the $927 million on the cash flow statement and if both numbers include the recent acreage acquisition or not.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So the working interest that we're in this kind of net series of wells are kind of in the 75% working interest range.
As far as when you look at the capital that we spent in the first half of the year on an accrual basis we spent a little over $700 million.
We did on a cash basis spend about $900 million.
There was – the difference was the carry-in from the prior year.
And so that was what you saw was the kind of big working capital come in in the first quarter and work that off and you can see that kind of go back to a steady state the rest of the year.
Got it.
And then the acquisition cost – is part of it in there or – and can you disclose how much of it is in the first half then? Yes.
The acquisition was – as far as the acquisition (47:41) the majority of that's going to be in both the second and third quarter.
You can see it smooth out into those three quarters.
We've got some of that in the second quarter but you also see some trickle into the third.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's it.
Wait till later this year.
We'll give you more color.
And that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you operator.
Thank you all for your investment interest in Newfield.
We appreciate your questions today.
We look forward to updating you on our progress for the remainder of the year.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.