Good day and welcome everyone to the Newfield Exploration fourth quarter and full-year ending 2015 earnings conference call.
For opening remarks and other housekeeping items I'll turn the call over to Steve Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
By now I hope you've had a chance to review our release and our @NFX that we issued last night.
As always the slides in @NFX will be a very helpful reference during our call today.
Following our prepared remarks from our Chairman Lee Boothby we'll have our executive team here and available to take your questions.
As always please limit your time during the Q&amp;A to one question and one follow-up.
As you know this allows us to get to more of your questions at the end of the call.
Let me also remind you that today's call is being recorded and it will be available on our website along with our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations.
We will reference certain non-GAAP measures so please see reconciliations at the end of our earnings release today.
Today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and these assumptions are based on our current views and our most reasonable expectations.
In summary statements in this morning's news release our @NFX and on this conference call today regarding expectations predictions or the future are all forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions under federal securities laws.
There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations including those we described in the press release and @NFX and our 10-K which was also filed yesterday.
Thanks again for dialing in.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman Lee Boothby.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We disclosed a great deal of news yesterday afternoon including the filing of our Form 10-K.
We will do our best to briefly summarize our 2015 results as well as update you on the progress we're making in our Anadarko Basin assets and our plans for 2016.
As always we will leave ample time to take your specific questions at the end.
These are indeed challenging times for the energy sector.
More than a year ago now we grew concerned about lower-for-longer commodity prices and took progressive steps to strengthen our hedge book reduce investment levels right-size our workforce and preserve margins by slashing costs across the business.
These efforts were evident in our fourth quarter results and our outlook for improved costs and expenses in 2016.
With the challenges presented in 2016 we must remain vigilant in our pursuit of lower costs and improved efficiencies.
We continue to adapt our near-term business strategies to preserve the health of the company and ensure we are in the best possible position to not only weather 2016 but to emerge with improved margins and a readiness to compete and win when commodity prices ultimately strengthen.
I'm confident that we have the people the plan and the assets to get it done.
Our priorities as outlined in our 2016 outlook released last night are crystal clear.
Number one preserve liquidity.
We reduced activity levels and better aligned our investment plans with cash flow expectations.
You will see that our 2016 budget is down more than 50% from last year and we have high-graded the lion's share of our capital to the Anadarko Basin where returns are more resilient today.
Our second priority is to HBP STACK.
STACK is a premier asset with industry-leading returns under any plausible long-term commodity price scenario.
It's critical that we retain our acreage and continue to push toward full field development where we are confident that the returns will continue to get better.
Third reduce operating expenses and preserve margins.
This is a continuation of the solid progress we made in 2015.
You can see from yesterday's guidance that 2016 LOE and G&amp;A expenses are projected to be down significantly.
And we are looking for other avenues to safely reduce expenses.
And fourth we're commencing a process to sell additional nonstrategic assets.
We've had a number of inbound calls and progressed some of those discussions.
However none to date have resulted in a transaction.
These discussions have encouraged us to launch a more organized effort to gain price discovery and ultimately transact on select assets.
Although we have a desire to sell assets we are not alone in that wish.
We recognize that this market could quickly become saturated with distressed sellers.
Proceeds from a potential sale would improve our financial flexibility and allow for opportunistic bolt-on acquisitions and acceleration in Anadarko Basin activity if oil prices rally or to simply manage our short-term borrowing levels.
I can assure you that our people from the office to the field are focused and aligned to execute these four priorities.
A little later in the call I'll provide more details on our 2016 outlook.
But first let me cover our 2015 highlights.
2015 was a great year for Newfield and its stockholders as we continued a multiyear streak of solid execution against our targets and delivered on our key objectives.
Now to the highlights.
Early 2015 we recapitalized our company and took proactive steps to reduce leverage and enhance liquidity.
When coupled with our strong hedge position these measures helped to offset the negative impact of low commodity prices and differentiated our balance sheet from many others in our peer group.
The strong financial footing allowed us to successfully execute our game plan.
Our 2015 game plan was certainly simplified.
Capital investments were reduced by about 25% over 2014 and we were laser focused on our exciting Anadarko Basin drilling programs where we saw improving drilling and completion costs throughout the year.
In 2015 each of our focus areas exceeded our beginning-of-year production forecasts and we beat our guidance which was raised twice during the year.
Production was driven by SCOOP and STACK which achieved a record fourth quarter net production average of about 75 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
From a startup less than four years ago SCOOP and STACK today comprise nearly half of our total company production and over half of the total proved reserves.
We took aggressive steps to reduce domestic LOE and our per-unit expense is down by more than 25% compared to 2014.
We acted quickly to address G&amp;A and took action in 2015 and early 2016 that have reduced our head count by more than 20%.
These measures equate to an estimated $45 million per year savings in 2016 gross G&amp;A.
Our Anadarko Basin proved reserves increased 50% to 269 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Positive additions helped partially offset significant price-related revisions.
Total company proved reserves decreased about 20% year over year to 509 million barrels of oil equivalent of which about two-thirds are proved developed.
Proved reserve additions during the year equate to a reserve replacement ratio of approximately 180% or 350% depending on the inclusion or exclusion of positive revisions.
There's a detailed accounting in cost incurred in reserve additions and revisions in our release and our 10-K.
Let's move on to a summary of our fourth quarter and full-year financial results.
Our production in the fourth quarter was above guidance at 14.9 million barrels of oil equivalent of which 47% was oil and nearly two-thirds were liquids.
Fourth quarter domestic production was at the top end of guidance at 13.5 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Our Anadarko Basin production beat our forecast levels by nearly 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Excluded several items listed in our release our net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter would have been $50 million or $0.30 per share on revenues of $362 million.
Our net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $289 million.
Our hedges added about $500 million in incremental revenues in 2015 and helped to underpin our cash flow.
We estimate an additional $365 million in hedge revenues over the next two years at current strip prices.
Our 2015 production was 56 million barrels of oil equivalent of which 5.4 million barrels came in from our China assets.
Adjusted net income for 2015 would have been $164 million or $1.02 per share when excluding unrealized losses on commodity derivatives the premium to call notes and impairments.
Revenues for 2015 were approximately $1.6 billion and consolidated net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was approximately $1.2 billion.
Let's talk about 2016 and the key objectives in our near-term business plan.
As I said in my opening comments 2016 is all about preservation of liquidity holding our STACK acreage and finding creative ways to improve margins in a low oil price environment.
We have a deep high-quality and economically resilient inventory to attack today in the Anadarko Basin and this is the centerpiece of our 2016 plan.
Our total capital budget is $625 million to $675 million down more than 50% at the midpoint from 2015.
There's a pie chart on slide 8 in our @NFX publication that depicts our plant investments by region.
On a unit-of-production basis our outlook for cash operating costs has improved and can be attributed to the following.
Our domestic lease operating expenses on a unit-of-production basis are expected to be more than 15% below 2015.
As we focus our investments in the Anadarko Basin the benefits are increasingly more apparent in our margins.
Lease operating and transportation expenses here are just over $5 per BOE the lowest in our liquids portfolio.
As SCOOP and STACK production growth offsets declines in areas with higher operating expenses and lower realized prices we expect to see continued improvements in our margins.
As I mentioned earlier our gross G&amp;A expense is expected to be $45 million lower than 2015 and we continue to look for ways to reduce G&amp;A and streamline our operations.
Despite the large cut in our capital investments our 2016 domestic production is expected to be relatively flat with 2015 at about 50 million barrels of oil equivalent.
China liftings are expected to total 4.3 million barrels of oil equivalent and no additional investments are planned in China.
About 80% of our 2016 budget is planned for the Anadarko Basin so this is where I will focus the remainder of our discussion.
SCOOP is currently in active development and we are drilling wells from common pads using shared production facilities and accessing markets through established midstream infrastructure.
SCOOP constitutes about $200 million of our 2016 investments.
Within our SCOOP program we will focus largely on SCOOP oil and the Springer Shale in both nonoperated and operated areas.
We continue to see good Springer results and benefit from the fact that much of our prospective Springer inventory is already HBP'd.
STACK investments which total about $300 million in 2016 will be focused on HBP'ing our acreage and ensuring that we hold this premier asset for future development.
Today about 50% of our acreage is held by production.
We expect to invest $50 million to $80 million in land costs in the Anadarko Basin largely in the STACK area.
We're confident that our returns will further improve as we transition to full field development.
There are some slides in our @NFX publication that I'll reference today starting with slide 12.
Here notice that we are now reporting our well performance on a three-stream basis.
We made this change for a few simple reasons.
First it's better disclosure and reports actual volumes by product from plant settlements and eliminates the need to estimate NGLs.
Second our type curve is three stream and it makes comparisons to our average expectations much easier.
On slide 14 notice the significant improvements we are seeing in well productivity.
This illustration chronicles STACK well performance by year and clearly shows the improvements we have made to optimize completions and targeting.
Here we show all 77 wells drilled to date plotted against our type curve by year.
And all information is on a three-stream basis.
We will continue this practice going forward.
Last year we raised our three-stream STACK type curve by about 20% from 800 Mboe to 950 Mboe to reflect data from large sample of wells.
Our 2015 wells are performing well above the type curve today.
As we've said our STACK type curve represents a play average across a vast area.
History tells us there will be variability in individual well results over a large area where all hydrocarbon phases are present.
And we remain very encouraged by the consistency of the well results over the last three-plus years.
On slide 13 we plot results from Newfield and industry wells throughout the STACK area where confidence in the play continues to grow.
Today there are more than 30 rigs running and about 350 total wells have been drilled and completed to date.
There are an additional 100 wells permitted.
We have announced a leading position in the oil window and are benefiting from technology service sector infrastructure and the science being done by large high-quality operators all around us.
In 2015 we expanded our footprint and extended our acreage position to the north and west where we are seeing high levels of industry activity today.
In addition to the primary Meramec and Woodford targets we have additional prospective horizons that we and industry will be testing in the future.
We have thousands of prospective wells in inventory and realize the importance of holding our acreage for the future benefit of our stockholders.
We continue to see improvements in our drilling efficiencies.
On slide 15 we show our completed cost per lateral foot and the progress we've made over the last several years.
Lower costs per foot have come by targeting the most effective drilling zones improvements in penetration rates through changes in bit designs as well as drilling fluid and motor optimizations.
From our participation in the wells drilled by others we know that our results are industry-leading.
Our best-in-class SXL wells are drilled and completed for about $750 per gross perforated interval including facilities.
We expect that our 2016 wells will cost about $725 per gross perforated foot.
Well costs across our acreage will vary and the reasons are very important to understand.
First drilling depths range from more than 12 000 feet to less than 8 000 feet.
Second in some areas to the north and west we are often required to set an extra casing string and this adds about $0.75 million or so to completed well cost.
And next about one-third of our total wells in 2016 will be XL wells 5 000-foot lateral lengths.
We plan to test XL wells this year to better understand the economics of XL wells while holding acreage that would not allow for the drilling of SXL wells.
Several of our peers in the area have seen solid results from XL wells and we intend to continue to deliver the same.
And finally we continue to tinker with our completions to find the most optimal design for future development.
We're employing zipper fracs diverting agents higher fluid and proppant concentrations and using both hybrid and slickwater fracture stimulations across the Anadarko Basin.
We're very encouraged by the strong performance from 2015 wells and the improvements that have accrued over the last several years.
These ongoing experimentations will create variability in both well cost and production performance.
Although the STACK drilling program provides industry-leading returns at today's oil prices it's more important for you to understand where we are heading.
We envision significantly lower well cost once we move into full field development.
On slide 15 we contrast in difference – in today's costs with what we internally refer to our vision well.
We have a line of sight on completed well costs including facilities as low as $6 million in future development.
On the left side of slide 16 we outline our 2016 assumptions for STACK well costs operating expenses and our average working and net revenue interests.
To the right of these assumptions we show pre-tax rates of return using a variety of well costs and commodity prices.
You can see the impact that a $5 move in oil or a $0.5 million reduction in completed well costs has on our returns.
We've taken steps to secure takeaway and attractive markets for our growing Anadarko Basin volumes.
As of today we're beginning to move STACK oil by pipe to Cushing Oklahoma.
By midyear we expect that 100% of our production will be on pipe to Cushing.
This is a high-quality crude and we expect our differential will ultimately be about $2.50 off NYMEX WTI.
You will see improved differentials in our guidance today.
We remain very encouraged with the continuing progress we're making in the Anadarko Basin and we'll be happy to discuss additional details with you during Q&amp;A.
Let me close with a summary on the remaining investments in our 2016 CapEx.
We plan to run a single rig in the Williston Basin through midyear and expect to complete 12 to 15 wells this year.
Our most recent wells have been drilled and completed for just under $5 million including facilities.
In the Eagle Ford we will invest solely through our outside-operated program in the Fashing area and this constitutes about $28 million.
Although these teams have done an outstanding job to enhance economics we simply must shift our limited capital towards the Anadarko Basin and our HBP needs.
We also expect to invest about $23 million in two joint ventures that we have recently signed last year one in the Arkoma and the other in the Central Basin of the Uinta.
In each of these ventures a significant portion of our interest is carried.
Our rationale is fairly simple.
One demonstrate recent advancements in drilling and completions gain a better understanding of play economics and offset firm transportation and refining commitments that are negatively impacting our cost structure today.
In the Arkoma Basin we've already drilled several of the wells with superior early results on production and cost savings.
Newfield is the operator of both ventures.
So once again thanks for dialing into our call today and for your interests and investment in Newfield Exploration.
We are fortunate to have premier assets in the Anadarko Basin and we are actively driving down our well costs and improving returns.
Our priorities are very clear today.
They are centered around preserving liquidity maintaining a strong balance sheet to weather a very challenging period of low oil prices.
We know the importance of holding our Anadarko Basin acreage to drilling and retaining this important asset for our future growth.
I'm confident that we have a sound near-term business plan to not only survive but to emerge as a leaner better-focused and more profitable company.
That concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
And we'll now take questions.
We'll take our first question from Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Dave.
Just kind of thinking a little bit about some of the spacing information you guys have shared with us in the past.
Can you update us as far as now that we have longer production history what both the horizontal spacing still looks like and what the vertical spacing looks like from kind of a stacked and staggered approach? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I can tell you what we've done.
We haven't put any new information out so you can go back and pick up the results that we've put forth.
The tightest spacing that we've tested – and remember these are generally wells drilled on either side of lease lines.
So in Oklahoma you got to be 440 feet off.
So the tightest spacing that we've tested in STACK at this point's about 880 feet.
And we won't be able to go below that until we drill an actual spacing pilot on a DSU.
So at this point that's the tightest we're going until we get our HBP situation satisfied.
And then within that Dave there were multiple tests – Woodford/Woodford Woodford/Meramec Upper Meramec Lower Meramec in a variety of different offset distances.
I would tell you that it's a relatively loose data set at this point and I wouldn't draw any huge conclusions from it.
But everything is positive.
All the wells continue to perform at or above type curve.
We saw no negative effects at the tightest spacing so we're very very encouraged in terms of thinking about what the ultimate spacing might be.
And we continue to think that we'll have multiple layers ultimately to be developed.
I will point out that some of our high-quality peers in the area that have already got HBP acreage have some high-density pilots planned and we'll be watching with great interest.
It's easy to see what they're thinking and frankly their thinking is in line with our thinking in terms of the number of horizons and the ability to space wells out in the four to eight wells per horizon type level.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
But you haven't seen many differences in terms of any communication (23:27) – okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All positive at this point.
Perfect.
And then when I think about the forward production guidance – and wells are outperforming type curves – what did you use as far as a type curve in that production guidance – i.e.
trying to get a handle on the conservative nature of guidance perhaps? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll say thank you on behalf of the entire team for calling our guidance conservative.
My friends sitting around me would tell you that they're focused on costs and efficiencies and driving those down but as I indicated in the call our focus is all about HBP today.
I think that we're very very happy to see where the wells sit relative to the type curve.
We're not making any type curve adjustments at this point in time.
I mentioned in the call that while we haven't seen any material variability across the acreage at this stage there's still that potential.
And we don't see a need to adjust the type curve up.
From a positive point if it continues to perform at those levels that will translate to a positive outcome relative to the 2016 guidance.
Our next question comes from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dave.
Lee just let me – so can you give me those HBP numbers again? I kind of cut out there in part of the call.
It sounds like – where do you think you'll be end of 2016 and then where at the end of 2017 as far as HBP in the STACK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 2015 I think I quoted in the prepared remarks that we ended the year right around 50%.
Yep.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll remind you Dave that we added acreage during the year and I mentioned that to the north and northwest.
I don't know if you heard those comments.
So there's a little bit of a bounce in terms of where we stand on HBP - Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> – versus what we might have projected when we had a lower acreage count.
So that's the first thing for you to consider.
The numbers we're referencing are relative to the current footprint.
So 50% HBP.
The core the original STACK acreage where we drilled when you look at that map and the added effects you'll see that that's been pretty well peppered so we'll have a lot of activity moving north and then ultimately northwest over time.
We would expect to end 2016 at around 65% or so with the reduced capital program HBP'd.
We would expect 2017 to move up in the 75% 80% range assuming a continuation of same.
I think ultimately we'll keep you posted as we go.
We're picking up incremental acreage on poolings so there'll be some noise from period to period in terms of what the actual acreage account is.
But I think those are pretty good numbers.
So 50% at year-end 65%-ish at year-end 2016 75%-ish at year-end 2017 is what we're thinking right now.
Okay.
That's helpful thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And then if – I'll just ask this question because – and you may hate me for it – but the entire story right now on your stock seems to be right somehow Newfield has to issue equity they got to do capital markets they got to sell something even though your balance sheet's strong.
From my seat right you don't need to do anything.
Can you just talk how you're thinking about your capital structure and anything you can say along those lines? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think I'll start by saying we never hate you just for the record.
You may hate the question but just not me.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't even hate questions.
I think that we all recognize that the current business environment – I called it challenging.
This is my 33rd year in the business.
There have been four major events so that means every eight years or so we go through one of these periods.
What bothers us most about the current period is it embodies part of 1986 part of 1998 part of 2008.
So it's serious.
And frankly I think industry – some of the people that have taken steps in that regard are doing so probably because they see the environment as equally challenging.
Frankly our view is that since we're going to protect our assets and protect the investment of our stakeholders stockholders we're going to keep all viable options on the table to preserve the health and the enterprise.
I think I said that in the earlier comments.
Yep.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our bias as you know over the years we've funded – the entire transformation the company has been towards asset sales and we've talked about moving that process along.
I think the shift from non-core assets into the SCOOP and STACK assets in the Anadarko Basin makes sense.
We've been on that path for the last three or four years and we'll continue.
But we sold $2.6 billion of assets over the last five years including just under $100 million of assets that nobody heard about in 2015.
So it's been an important part of the game plan and I think that we'll continue to be prudent in that regard.
And I think that the broader question that you're probably asking – we've seen peers accessing the capital markets.
We do understand the rationale.
We can see the need to enhance liquidity manage debt levels.
We've reduced our capital spend back towards cash flow and I think we're taking all the prudent steps that we can.
But part of being prudent is that you always keep all the options on the table to preserve balance sheet strength and that's what allows us to execute our near-term plan.
It was critical to us in 2015; it'll be critical to us again in 2016.
So I think that's kind of my long-winded view.
But again 1986 was bad; 1998-1999 were no fun; 2008 no fun absolutely.
2014 2015 now we're into 2016 might be the worst of them all.
Okay.
Let's hope not.
Thanks for the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Dave and if it's not we're going to be in the adequate position to step on the accelerator on the ride up but we want to see positive movement in the markets before we step on the accelerator.
Sounds good.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Glick with JPMorgan.
Hey guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
So maybe to follow up on David's question there.
I mean can you just speak a little bit more to leverage and kind of what your comfort levels are from a ratio perspective over the next year or two? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've been pretty clear and spoken about that quite a bit over the last year or so.
I think we found ourselves – and again compliments to our team here.
Proactive timing and execution last year left us in good stead.
We look at where we finished the year and that all feels nice and comfortable.
Last year we were sitting here talking about how difficult the business environment was at $50.
Today we're sitting here looking at numbers in the low $30s.
So it's certainly in a different environment today.
But I'll let Larry give you his color on leverage ratios and how we're thinking about it.
Sure.
I think we've said in the past that we've kind of targeted a net-debt-to-EBITDA roughly around 2.
I think that's a really good healthy enterprise in these kind of lower commodity prices you're seeing.
That – challenging and companies certainly experiencing higher leverage ratios.
We're not immune to that either although we've been able to through the actions that we pointed out kind of keep it in and around there.
So we'll continue to monitor that and that's our expectation is to stay at healthy levels but that'll be dependent on product prices.
And then shifting to STACK you obviously went through the year-over-year improvements.
But could you maybe provide a little bit more detail on the drivers in 2015 in your plants and test techniques in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I rattled off a lot of the things that we're doing in the call.
I think I'd reference you to the call script and certainly you can follow up with Danny and Steve if you want additional details.
But we're testing larger job sizes hybrid fracs higher proppant concentrations tighter fracture cluster spacing.
It's an all of the above but our team has demonstrated over the last three or four years that the scientific method works at Newfield.
So we don't change 15 variables at one time and then tell you "Look at the great job that we did." We actually do it systematically so that you can understand what you're doing.
So I think our team will take those steps during the course of the year and we'll be able to tell you as 2016 unfolds what we believe the secret sauce is for the STACK play.
Our next question comes from Josh Silverstein with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Josh.
Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hello can you hear me now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I can hear you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys and good morning.
Was just thinking along the lines of the asset sales.
I note the program has started to divest assets in the Anadarko Basin over 50% of total volumes in 2016.
Just trying to get a better understanding of how you guys want to transition the company over the next few years.
Is the goal to really make this kind of a pure-play focus on the Anadarko Basin so you could sell assets elsewhere and redeploy a more capital to consolidate the Anadarko Basin? Just kind of thinking how this transition period works as you guys are trying to set up for the next cycle.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'm not sure I understood all your question but I'll take a stab at it Josh.
So the first thing we have been rotating into the Anadarko Basin over the course of the last three years just given the scale and scope of the asset portfolio that we put together there and the results being posted.
I mentioned that we sold $2.6 billion of what we call nonstrategic assets over the last five years.
That helped fund our transformation including building those positions that we love dearly today.
Our focus has to remain on HBP'ing the STACK acreage.
We've got most of SCOOP taken care of.
We do have some wells planned there as indicated in 2016 but it's mostly about focusing on getting STACK HBP'd and putting us on a position so that in 2017 we can start some of the tighter spacing pilots and a move towards development which was one of our targets that we talked about during the course of 2015.
We want to remain opportunistic obviously relative to opportunities that will come up from to time in those core areas and we want to be able to take advantage of it.
You saw us add 20 000 acres in the core of SCOOP and STACK in 2015 and it's my hope that we'll see additional opportunities like that develop in 2016 and on the road ahead.
We want to keep Newfield strong and in a position to act.
Ultimately relative to what we call nonstrategic assets we've said consistently over the last couple years it's not a question of if it's just a question of when.
I think our team broadly that means all of the folks that work in managed assets understand that we're making smart decisions for in the business in the intermediate and long term.
And I think that they've shown the ability to deliver results in that area.
So as we make those decisions we'll shed assets in areas if we get an attractive price and we'll have that cash available for the all-of-the-above strategy that I've kind of outlined in the Anadarko Basin.
If we don't see a good price we're fortunate because of steps taken last year and results posted in 2015 that we don't have to do anything.
I think in that regard we'll be patient and make sure that if we sell an asset it's at a price that we'll be proud to tell you about.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The stimulus for us has been inbound calls and people know that we have quality assets and we've been open about saying that at some point in time we'll let them go.
I said clearly in the script that we've had lots of discussions on lots of assets.
We're just telling everybody now that it probably means that – show up with your best number or expect to participate in a process.
That's the polite translation of what we said today.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Yeah that was the gist of the question and clearly the production's going in that direction the capital's already there and just wanted to see if that was kind of the longer-term trajectory of where the (36:10) - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> (36:10).
The gravitational pull continues to get stronger and stronger and stronger every day.
We love it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Lee as far as 2014 just curious if we look at that 2015 curve and if you compared maybe first half of 2015 with second half of 2015 if you would have seen a meaningful difference a meaningful improvement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Subash I mean obviously if you look at the curve I can tell you constructively that since the first half of the curve has most of the well count the highest number of wells that's the part that you ought to lean strongest on.
As you move to the end of that curve that's where – the oldest well from 2015.
So the first half of the curve has all the benefits of the most recent activity and results.
Clearly it's well above the curve.
We want to be able to see that sustain itself before we make any additional adjustments to the type curve.
But in general if you look at all of the wells since there's 50-some odd wells if I'm remembering correctly in that curve every bit of it's fracking at or above the type curves.
So that's part of our comment saying we feel really really good about the results being posted.
My hope is that the work the teams are doing today with all of the testing in terms of variables on the completion side will further enhance productivity but I'm really proud of what the teams delivered in 2015 and excited about 2016.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's helpful.
So along those lines in these latest oil wells latest-gen STACK wells are you seeing any change in how they perform naturally what they produce at when they're on artificial lift the duration artificial lift et cetera.
So perhaps the curve after day 90.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well again I'm going to remind you – and I don't have the stats in front of me.
I'd tell you follow up with Danny and Steve.
They can give you some color on the number of wells per unit time on that curve.
I just know that if you look at the second half of that curve it's first half results kind of the way to think about it.
But the first half of that curve is all the results.
That's kind of a way to think about it if you want to think about it on average.
So it's not a single well outcome it's a composite average of all the wells that have been drilled.
Our next question - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Follow up with Steve and Danny.
They can give you additional color you might want there.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin with Société Générale.
Yeah.
Just two quick ones for me.
Lee regarding asset rationalizations for something like Utah will you open a data room or will you be more passive in what you were describing as companies approaching you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we've got some quality companies where we have people that we know and trust that – would probably entertain discussions with them directly.
No reason to run a process if you don't have to.
There may be some assets that we choose to run a process just to make sure that we've got a broad test of the market.
Okay thanks.
And next one from me in the @NFX you had the STACK well cost; what about the SCOOP? About the same or – ? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the SCOOP I would say that we'll pick up the normal efficiencies.
We're in development there but I would expect that you'll see well costs in a similar vein to what we've been advertising there going forward.
All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you John.
The next question comes from Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
On the JVs in Arkoma and Uinta what's the scope of those programs now? And do you see this as something that could lead to a bigger JV down the road? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the scope of the programs are to test what we can do with current technology.
So I'll use the Arkoma as a basis for the discussion because we've not started drilling in the Uinta but I'll give you some color there as well.
So the team had the idea that we've learned a lot since we stopped drilling dry gas wells in the Arkoma several years ago after the financial crisis.
We moved from gas to oil in terms of our focus and we wanted to go back and see if we could apply those learnings and how to translate it in terms of spud-to-TD times and cost.
So we've drilled five or six wells there now on this promoted basis.
I think the exciting part was the very first well in the program was drilled in half the time of the best-in-class well drilled five years earlier.
So that was a real shot in the arm.
And then the productivity of the well – we'll update you these programs later in the year but just to give you the early returns on that well productivity of that well was the best in the field.
So that gives us visibility in that dry gas asset there in the Arkoma that at gas prices down in the $2.50 $2.75 if oil decides to hang around in the $35 $40 range we could go back to work drilling gas wells and not lose any sleep over it.
That's kind of exciting.
At the same time it probably tells you that lower-for-longer on natural gas is going to be around for a while.
The other side of that on the Uinta that's oil.
And we had the same learnings that we've taken both from the Anadarko Basin the Williston Basin and the Eagle Ford.
And we've put a team together and they've been working for the last year or so.
The teams that delivered the sub-$5 million cost in the Williston and their challenge is to go to the Uinta Basin and prove we can do it there too.
So the first part of this is to go back can we drill them faster? Can we drill and complete the wells much more cost-effectively? We know what the producibility is out there.
We've got lots of good production.
We just need to drive the costs down.
And on the other side of it we've got some commitments to refiners.
So this gives us an opportunity to demonstrate the economic value of the asset continue to advance the learning curve and satisfy the requirements to move oil to the area of the refiners.
So it's kind of a win-win-win proposition in that regard.
We'll start the drilling on that program here sometime in the second quarter.
Thanks.
And then especially in the Uinta do you see with the commitments to the refiners this program to get a longer-term JV there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think with success we're open-minded.
It's a win for the refiners in Uinta it's a win for our partner in the Arkoma.
Good business relationships tend to grow and we're open-minded in that regard.
If it's beneficial to Newfield and our stockholders and beneficial to our partners you'll probably see more of that activity.
Okay.
And my follow-up was in the STACK area.
You've been looking at – kind of back into the sort of the latest wells even adjusting for the two-stream versus three-stream.
There's been a nice pickup in the latest batch.
Just wondering how much of that is where you're drilling within your acreage versus some of the completion optimizations you mentioned before and can you sort of give us some idea of where you are with the completions today versus say a year ago? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say the completions are probably moving toward the middle innings if you want it to put in baseball terms.
And I would say that the results you're seeing are a product of geography geology and creativity.
So it's kind of all of the above.
It's not just completions.
It's not just geography geology; it's a combination of factors that led to that improved performance.
And I don't a percentage breakout for you.
Maybe talk to Steve and Danny and they'll give you some more color but that's the right answer.
And we'll take our final question from Will Derrick with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi.
Inc.</span></strong> Question – talking about completions in the STACK with your recent wells and updated completions are you all seeing any improvement in oil rates I guess over time as a cut of the whole mix? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that if you look at the shape curves on slide 14 demonstrated relative to our type curve you'll see pretty good conformance.
We've seen good consistency.
The hope would be that some of the combination of factors that we're talking about higher proppant concentrations one of the things I know Gary and the team are working on today.
We're working on tighter cluster spacing talking about diverters.
There's all kinds of different points that are being attacked.
Ultimately the objective is to improve the yield on a cost basis and that would mean improving the economics.
If we get the double benefit if you will of multiple factors working for us then you could see an uplift.
But I think the – with four or five years of producing history now the actual production characteristics of the target reservoirs are pretty well understood.
You'll need to calibrate based on where the wells are located so that you know that you've got where you are in the phase envelope.
Most of our acreage is in the oil window.
There's a wet gas condensate window.
There will be a volatile oil window.
Generally the volatile oil window is very narrow.
You'll grade ultimately into dry gas so there'll be a large area of dry gas as you move west and southwest away from us.
When you talk to Newfield you're talking about oil window play largely.
We do have some exposure in the volatile oil and the wet gas condensate regime but we don't have any dry gas exposure at this stage.
And that concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
I'll return the floor to our presenters for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I just want to say thank you again.
I know it's a tough time for everybody these days and I know it's no fun for our investors and analyst friends that are working with the same issues that we are but I want to conclude with both saying thank you for your support and thank you for your investment and interest in Newfield.
And I hope you take away from this that we remain excited and encouraged about the road ahead and we will deliver.
Have a good day.
Okay.
This does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.