Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Lindy and good morning to everybody.
Welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call.
Overall our third quarter was a very good one across a number of fronts.
Our operations and technical teams performed extremely well to deliver record quarterly revenues on the back of great execution.
Our marketing team closed a number of key contracts that have increased our revenue backlog to nearly $4 billion and our finance team lined up additional sources of funding to support our growth strategy.
I'll touch on the first 3 areas while Mark will update you on the financial developments.
Starting with operations.
Atwood's fleet-wide revenue efficiency was approximately 95% for the third quarter.
Our 2 ultra-deepwater rigs performed much better than in the previous quarter as the Atwood Osprey and Atwood Condor combined for a 95% revenue efficiency in the third quarter.
As I mentioned on our last call we believe that the BOP downtime issues we experienced on these rigs that were attributable to design and manufacturing issues are behind us and that these hard lessons learned are transferable to our drillships.
Shifting to our jack-up fleet.
The Atwood Orca joined the active drilling fleet in Thailand in early May after its tow from the Singapore shipyard.
Similar to its 2 sister rigs the Orca experience a very smooth start up averaging better than 99% revenue efficiency over its first 2 months of operations.
This outstanding reliability performance right out of the gate demonstrates once again our company's ability to deliver newbuild rigs that are ready to drill as soon as they arrive on location.
As of class our 6 jack-ups averaged more than 98% revenue efficiency for the third quarter.
Our 3 deepwater rigs experienced a slightly lower revenue efficiency than usual at 93% for the quarter.
The Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Eagle incurred unplanned downtime events for equipment repairs that offset to some degree a very strong operating performance by the Atwood Hunter.
Shifting now to marketing.
Our commercial team was very successful in the 90 days since our last call in bringing to closure a number of opportunities that had been under development.
In total we signed 6 contracts for a total of $1.8 billion in revenue backlog making this one of the most prolific contracting periods in our company's history.
In late May we entered 2-year extension on the Atwood Eagle for work with Woodside in Australia and that will keep the rig occupied there until mid-2016.
Woodside has been sharing time on the Atwood Eagle under its current program and this commitment shows their confidence in the rig's performance.
It also validates the strength of the Australian offshore market where our 3 floaters now have a combined backlog of approximately 8 years.
Also in May we signed a one-year extension on the Atwood Aurora with Addax Petroleum that will keep that rig busy in Cameroon until February 2015.
The Aurora continues to enhance its reputation in West Africa as a reliable and capable drilling unit.
In June we were finally able to announce our follow-on work for the Atwood Beacon which continues to drill in Israel.
Once it has completed its current well the Beacon will transit to Italy to begin a 2-year development drilling campaign for ENI in the Adriatic Sea.
The Beacon is required to undergo some equipment modifications to comply with Italian regulations.
These are well underway and should be fully completed before the ENI program commences.
At this point we do not expect any zero rate days associated with these modifications or the mobilization to Italy.
Also in June we announced the 39-month contract extension on the Atwood Condor with Shell that will keep the rig in the Gulf of Mexico until November 2016.
This extension supersedes the remaining term of the Hess Corporation contract that was scheduled to conclude in June of -- in July of 2014 and includes a day rate uplift during this time period.
We are pleased to be working with Shell again after we enjoyed a long and successful collaboration with the Atwood Falcon in Malaysia before that rig relocated to Australia.
The Condor is currently finishing up its work for Hess and we expect to begin with Shell later this month.
And earlier this week we announced a short-term extension on the Atwood Hunter and Equatorial Guinea with GEPetrol EG's national oil company.
This fixture will bridge the Hunter into the first calendar quarter of 2014 so this may be the last program for the Hunter before the rig commences its planned maintenance regulatory work that we discussed on last quarter's call.
Even with these contracting successes our most exciting development for the quarter was the fixture of our second A-class drillship the Atwood Achiever with Kosmos Energy for a 3-year exploration program that will begin in Morocco.
It is especially helpful for our operations and technical teams to have identified our client and our initial drilling program more than a year in advance of the Achiever's delivery from the shipyard.
Kosmos Energy has been a client of Atwood's since 2008 when we assigned the Atwood Hunter to drill in Ghana and we are excited to be working with them on this important exploration campaign.
This fixture is noteworthy on its own but it also reinforced our confidence to build our fourth A-class drillship the Atwood Archer at the DSME shipyard.
The Archer will be essentially identical to the previous 3 drillships and it is scheduled to be delivered by the end of calendar 2015.
Along with this commitment we secured an option to build a fifth drillship with an exercise date of March 2014 and a delivery date of September 2016.
And speaking of our drillships we continue to make excellent progress on our first 3 rigs at the DSME shipyard.
Just last month we held our naming ceremony for the Atwood Advantage.
It was attended by our client Noble Energy.
The rig looks great and construction progress by the shipyard has been accelerating in recent weeks.
We believe that the Advantage may be delivered after its scheduled completion date of September 30 but we don't expect this delay to exceed 60 days.
Now let's take a look at the market.
In general the outlook for our business remains buoyant and largely unchanged from the previous quarter.
Since our last call we've seen a rebound in Brent oil prices on the back of an improving U.S.
economy and some increased geopolitical concerns on supply.
However slower growth expectations for China and other non-OECD nations coupled with increasing U.S.
onshore oil production could provide headwinds for maintaining these elevated oil price levels going forward.
In the ultra-deepwater segment a number of signings of new builds including the Atwood Achiever underpin our expectations for a strong rig market in 2014 and beyond.
Ultra-deepwater day rates may not be moving up but we are not convinced that rates are coming down or are due to coming down in the near term.
For the Atwood Achiever our initial expected day rate of $660 000 for drilling in Morocco compares quite well with other West Africa fixtures that we have seen over the past 18 months.
The jack-up space continues to be very good all around.
Our marketing priorities in this segment are the Atwood Manta and the Vicksburg both of which are contracted through the end of December in Thailand.
As a preference we are pursuing suitable opportunities in Thailand as well as in the broader Southeast Asia region.
And in the Deepwater segment our near-term marketing focus is to line up longer-term work for the Atwood Hunter.
With the recent short-term fixture we just announced plus the regulatory and maintenance work that may directly follow the Hunter's first availability may not occur before May of 2014.
While some analysts have pointed to a bifurcation between the newest ultra-deepwater rigs and older deepwater and ultra-deepwater rigs we expect to find additional work for the Hunter at healthy day rates barring a major change in oil prices.
And the last thing I want to cover was our agreement with Helmerich &amp; Payne to purchase half of the 4 million shares they divested last quarter.
This purchase reduced the impact on our other shareholders of a widely anticipated share sale by H&amp;P and it will provide a boost to future earnings per share.
More importantly this transaction should put to rest once and for all investor concerns about a potential overhang in our stock.
Mark will clarify the financial impacts of this transaction in his prepared comments.
And with that I'll turn the discussion over to Mark.
Thanks Rob.
Today I'm going to highlight a few items in our third quarter's financial results and then compare these results to previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position provide cost guidance for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Let's start with the third quarter highlights.
Revenues of $272.7 million is another quarterly revenue record for Atwood and $20 million ahead of the previous quarter.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.37 as compared to $1.28 for the prior quarter an increase of 7% on 73 additional operating days during the quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the entire fleet of 95% was almost 3% better than the second quarter.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $109 million for the quarter as compared to $99 million to the previous quarter.
The $99 million included $9 million of reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is explained as follows.
Additional 73 fleet operating days during the quarter including the Atwood Orca operating for 63 days under its inaugural contract in Thailand at the middle of it from the PPL Shipyard in late April.
The Orca incurred contract drilling costs of $3.7 million during the quarter.
And secondly the timing of certain maintenance projects mainly on the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Falcon.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 14.4% slightly above previous quarter due to a change in the geographical mix of our operations.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $197 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of the final payment on Atwood Orca capital spares and project management and other related costs for the 4 rigs under construction.
During the quarter we issued $200 million in senior notes and an add-on transaction to our existing $450 million senior notes due in 2020.
In addition and subsequent to June 30 2013 we exercised the accordion feature of our revolving credit facility by increasing commitments by $350 million to $1.1 billion.
We also amended the credit facilities to remove all scheduled amortization through maturity and increasing commitments of $200 million.
We still retain the option to further increase commitments under the revolving credit facility by another $200 million to a total of $1.3 billion.
By exercising this $200 million accordion we will be fully funded by a newbuild program through the delivery of the Atwood Archer our fourth drillship in 2015.
As Rob mentioned in his comments in May we entered into an agreement to purchase 2 million shares from H&amp;P for a total of $107 million.
Upon the closing of this transaction in late June we canceled these shares reducing our weighted average share count by about 800 000 shares in the fiscal third quarter.
This resulted in a $0.016 benefit to earnings per share in the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.12 billion at June 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio increasing to 33% up from 29% during the previous quarter.
I'll just discuss the outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
Firstly we estimate reimbursable revenues of $13 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Quickly updating my guidance from the previous fiscal -- from the previous conference call contract drilling costs should now range between $425 million and $435 million for fiscal 2013.
Therefore for the fiscal fourth quarter we anticipate contract drilling costs of between $110 million and $120 million.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which approximate a $10.3 million for the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and G&amp;A expense should remain constant quarter-on-quarter.
Interest expense should approximate $8 million net of capitalized interest.
We expect our tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 to range between 13% and 14%.
Included in the $197 million in capital expenditures in the third quarter we spent $570 million year-to-date leaving approximately $83 million remaining to be spent in the fourth quarter.
Note that in July we made the initial downpayment on the Atwood Archer our fourth newbuild drillship for a total of $107 million.
Therefore capital expenditure should approximate $760 million for 2013.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Lindy for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Collin Gerry of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob I want to follow up on some comments you made potential bifurcation we're seeing in the floater space and other fleets maybe not your own but we are seeing some relative softness as it relates to some deepwater units with maybe 4 MBOP stacks or 10 000 PSI -- BOP stacks.
Is that just noise in the market or is that real that we're seeing a little bit of softness there relative to the higher-end units? Well I think that some of that is a function of where those units are located who they're working for whether it's extensions of existing work or new work and maybe some particular -- particulars around the performance of those rigs.
But in general we were certainly encouraged by the short-term extension we got on the Atwood Hunter and of course as you know we yanked a pretty nice contract on the Atwood Eagle in Australia.
So I will say to this point we've been immune from that.
That said the -- we're big believers that ultimately the newest and most capable technological rigs will garner the best work and the highest day rates.
So in some cases there may be some evidence of that with our competitor fleets.
But again to date we haven't seen it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Now your fleet certainly has held up especially on the new contracts much better than maybe some of your competitors.
I guess my other question was and you spoke on this a little bit but we heard from the big manufacturer the other day on rig equipment and it seemed that a big theme is how tight the shipyards are in terms of getting this stuff out the door.
They're having to outsource there's a lot of just cost overruns on their end and maybe on the manufacturer's end.
Should we start worrying about delays for the industry in terms of delivering this newbuild? That wouldn't be anything new to the industry but I'm just -- there's a lot of deliveries over the next 2 years and we're starting to hear a little bit more about delays.
Do you think it gets a little bit worse? Well we're most focused on the delivery of the Atwood rigs.
And from my prepared comments you can see that we are anticipating a potentially slight delay on the delivery of the Advantage which is the first of 4 virtually identical rigs.
We actually gained confidence on the on-time delivery potential for the subsequent rigs because all the engineering gets done once and then it gets replicated over the follow-on rigs.
I think we've also done a good job in working with the same equipment manufacturers and make sure from an Atwood perspective that their progress is moving along in lockstep with the shipyard.
So we aren't held up by a vendor on a particular drillship delivery date.
I will say that in other build cycles as we move through it the supply chain does oftentimes run into issues and if anything obviously that would be bullish for the existing supply if the new supply is delayed.
But again right now we're focused on our rigs and to date we've done a pretty good job of getting ours out on time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the Atwood fleet that's under construction just to kind of summarize I mean -- yes maybe a little bit of delay possible on the first rig but overall still very comfortable with the timetable.
Absolutely.
We're in one shipyard now.
I mean if you go back 18 months ago we were in 3 shipyards.
So the complexity of our build program has been reduced quite a bit.
We're giving a lot of attention to DSME and the particular suppliers who support the construction of our drillships and we feel good about where we are on that -- on those timetables.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> The Hunter contract in Equatorial Guinea is certainly higher than what I think most of us would have thought of sort of the market rate for that class.
It is a short-term contract and I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on how you see longer-term contract opportunities for those rigs in 2014 or if it's going to be more of a spot market going forward and what sort of rate differentials we might contemplate between near term versus spot.
Well we are seeing a number of longer-term opportunities for the Hunter keeping in mind that we do have better than 3 months almost 4 months of total work planned for coatings work and some refurbishment of equipment that will take place in fiscal '14.
So we're really looking out beyond that timeframe for opportunities that are suitable for the rig and we are seeing a number of those.
As you can imagine there tends to be a trade-off between longer-term commitments by clients and some impact on day rates.
So I'm not going to say that we're going to guarantee 500 000 plus on the long-term renewals for the Hunter.
But we certainly expect to be in a healthy range when we go out and fix that longer-term work.
I think the fact that the Hunter has drilled very reliably and safely in Equatorial Guinea the fact that there was work right there in-country that follows onto the work that we're doing now certainly facilitated the rate that we got.
But we're -- continue to be optimistic on the deepwater fleet despite some of the commentary around our competitor fleets.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And then I think that you answered this for Collin before but more in pointedly of the potential 60-day delay for the Advantage is not expected to have any knock-on effect whatsoever with the others in the series? That's correct.
And again we're not committing to a 60-day delay.
We're just being a bit conservative here that if there's some slippage we think we can bracket it at 60 days and we're going to do everything we can with the shipyard to get out as close to on-time as we can.
Research Division</strong> One more quick one if I may Rob.
The 2 jack-up from Thailand that are rolling at the end of the year those by my eyes look like they're a little bit below where the market rates are when they rollover.
Would you concur with that? Well yes.
We've said this before we -- we're focused on margins and less on day rates.
And as we've also said before the Thailand market tends to be a low-cost jurisdiction relative to other areas where we operate.
And if you move the rig out of Thailand just to get the same margin you're typically going to see a higher day rate.
So as we market the rig we're going to be looking at opportunities both inside Thailand and outside Thailand.
And I guess what I would say is that we certainly think that we can hold or increase the margins that we're getting on those rigs on renewal.
And we'll take our next question from Jud Bailey from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you you've got a couple of deepwater markets if I could start with West Africa.
You guys have signed up a couple of strong contacts there.
I was wondering Rob if you can just elaborate on -- as you have discussions over the next 2 drillships kind of give us some insight into type of demand you're seeing there in which countries and maybe any color you may have on the West Africa market.
Yes when you said deepwater maybe you meant ultra-deepwater.
Research Division</strong> I did yes.
Okay.
But yes.
I mean we feel very good about the West Africa market.
The West Africa market and the Gulf of Mexico as I've said on previous calls are probably the key focal areas for the ultra-deepwater fleet but certainly not the only ones.
And we just continue to see a lot of demand out there that is suitable for new ultra-deepwater rigs.
Frankly Morocco probably wasn't on most people's radar scopes 6 to 12 months ago if you'd asked me where we thought that the Atwood Achiever would go.
But yet there's significant exploration activity planned there for 2014 and beyond.
So we're encouraged by the development of new emerging exploration markets coupled with increased discoveries in some of the established markets both in West Africa and in East Africa.
And again for the whole continent we feel it's a good basin to absorb additional ultra-deepwater capacity.
I would say the same thing about the Gulf of Mexico.
We're very bullish on that region as a real growth area for ultra-deepwater.
So those are our 2 first ports to call when we think about marketing the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the Gulf.
Obviously there's a lot of outstanding demand there and outlook looks very good.
One thing we've heard recently is there's been some delays maybe on the part of some operators maybe pushing some things off a little on the timetable's kind of moved to the right a little bit on when they may need rigs.
Are you hearing the same thing I'm just curious or any truth to that? Well we've heard a little bit of that but keep in mind that again focusing on the Atwood fleet the Atwood Admiral is not available until the first quarter of 2015.
So it's really not been an issue for us in particular.
We are encouraged frankly that with the Atwood Admiral's delivery quite a bit off we already are seeing potential opportunities for that rig.
So we continue to be encouraged by the marketability of our remaining ultra-deepwater rigs and we certainly think any short-term hiccups in the Gulf of Mexico in terms of getting projects going certainly won't extend to the timeframe for the Admiral.
And we'll take our next question from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mark some -- just a clarification question.
What did you guide us on your interest expense? Interest expense net of capitalized interest should be around $8 million for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the DD&amp;A? It should be flat from the third quarter to the fourth quarter somewhere around $30 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Rob it's been a while since you've talked about the Southern Cross.
And I just wanted to see what's the -- is there any hope for that rig? There are a couple of contracts for rigs of that water depth rating.
And what's the condition of the rig and anything that you can highlight about the prospects for that rig? Well Waqar it's interesting that we've gone this long without talking and you want to talk about the Southern Cross but it's your airtime.
The Southern Cross is a rig that as we said before when we stacked it it was in good shape.
In fact we just spent a lot of money to reactivate it.
And so we feel that it's a very viable rig for select midwater opportunities and some of the more recent opportunities potentially lineup technically well with that rig.
And so we are taking and have taken looks at some of these opportunities.
I've also said on previous calls and this is maybe going back a year or more that we're not going to reactivate the rig unless and until we're sure it's for a really interesting and profitable opportunity.
And -- so that means longer-term in decent rate.
And at this point we haven't seen that yet.
But we are considering opportunities for the Southern Cross but we're going to continue to be selective about which ones we pursue.
Research Division</strong> And how about opportunities to sell it? Is there any market for that rig? Well there's always a market to sell.
It's just a question of can get the right price and how does that compare to the potential for reactivation.
So we're -- we've had some inquiries about buying the rig and we have obviously not pulled the trigger on any of those.
So one way or the other we want to monetize the rig because in its current condition it's really not doing us much good and we'll continue to pursue the opportunities that make the most sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second one would be and maybe you'll tackle again Vicksburg that's another -- that's a low-end jack-up that you have.
Has a good reputation though.
What are the job prospects for that in '14 and beyond and any guidance that you can provide there? Yes.
I mean obviously the Vicksburg is a working rig and it does have a very good reputation as you mentioned.
It's in the right market.
The wells in Thailand are pretty easy to drill they're short-term in nature shallow water depth and shallow drilling depth.
So -- and of course we've had very good support from our client there for a number of years.
So we feel good about the opportunity to renew that rig.
How long that rig will continue to work I think is always an open question when you talk about bifurcation that's taking place in the jack-up space.
But we continue to see strong demand and day rate movements that tend to be to the upside.
So we're optimistic.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first thought is as you kind of talked about having other options for drillship can you walk me through a little bit about kind of where you -- how your mind and how you kind of think and work through incremental capital budgeting towards newbuilds? It seems -- everybody's convinced that the floater market is tight through '14 and all empirical evidence suggest that.
Some analysis would say you a have little less visibility into '15 and '16 when these rigs are delivered.
How are you factoring that? What are your thoughts and how do kind of go through the process of deciding the -- to exercise that option or not? Well a number of factors go into play in making the decision to spend $635 million on a new asset.
But it starts first with market demand and we continue to believe that the ultra-deepwater space is a growing segment of the offshore drilling market and with every discovery with the opening up of new areas we're encouraged by incremental capacity at that end of the spectrum.
Obviously there's also opportunities for longer-term retirement of existing floaters.
You've got about 150 midwater and deepwater floaters that are out there.
They're getting older and especially in a post-Macondo world don't offer all the technical and safety and well-controlled capabilities that you get with the new technology rigs.
So from a demand perspective we feel very good about our investments that we've made thus far.
And so as we consider future investments we'll obviously square that outlook today with potential opportunities for tomorrow.
But the fact that we've put the first 2 rigs to work at Atwood Advantage and Atwood Achiever with some great clients it tells us how -- that these are marketable designs.
And so if we think about making another decision to build a fifth drillship we believe that would be highly marketable as well.
So those are some of the general factors that go into play.
And again I would just add it in closing that this management team is growth-biased and we're always going to be on the lookout for ways to grow our fleet size our geographic footprint and our client base.
And so we'll look hard at opportunities to grow whether those are organic or otherwise.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as you've kind of gone about -- thinking about -- as you've go on about your thoughts on the future have you gotten -- given -- as we get closer to '15 '16 are you getting more confident about the shape of that market there and I kind of ask the question within the context of your rig retirement thought process.
Do you see that becoming a real driving issue in the next couple -- in the kind of next say 3 years or near-term? Well I think to the extent that we continue to see strong oil prices and a strong demand it forestalls a potential accelerated retirement of existing capacity.
But that said we've been big believers that ultimately the rigs that are operating today in both the floater space and the jack-up space as they reach 30 years and beyond they're going to be increasingly retired especially when you have a lot of new capacity come out better than a 100 rigs for both the jack-up space and the floater space.
So it is going to happen but again with a strong market we think that the timing for retirement especially kind of forced retirements is put off and that's beneficial for our existing deepwater fleet.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If that's all then we thank everybody for joining this morning's call and we'll look forward to talking to you in November when we recap our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
This concludes today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.