Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded.
I will be standing by should you need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO for Atwood Oceanics.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Steve and good morning and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics Conference Call and Webcast to review the company's operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended September 30 2013.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and the actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thanks Mark and good morning to all of you joining today's call as we discuss Atwood's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 results.
In the fourth quarter we achieved our highest quarterly revenue and earnings in our company's 45-year history.
This strong finish to the 2013 fiscal year propelled us to exceed $1 billion in annual revenue for the first time while at the same time establishing a new record for annual profits.
These financial milestones symbolize the success of our growth strategy in 2013 as we maintained our high standards of operational excellence even as we expanded our rig fleet and added many new people to the Atwood organization.
Our fourth quarter results were achieved in large part due to a very strong 97% fleet-wide revenue efficiency.
Atwood's offshore rig teams continue to provide outstanding drilling services to our clients by running our rigs safely reliably and efficiently and by avoiding major downtime incidents.
In addition we maintained good cost control across our entire organization for both the quarter and the full year that enabled us to finish at the low end of our initial 2013 cost guidance range.
With our annual revenues up 35% over 2012 and 65% over 2011 it is clear that our expanding high-specification rig fleet is transforming our financial story significantly.
In fact revenue from our high-spec assets was 55% of our total revenue in 2013 versus 40% in 2012 and only 21% in 2011.
And as we deliver our 4 ultra-deepwater drillships over the next 2-plus years we expect ample opportunities to materially increase our top and bottom lines over 2013's record levels.
Turning now to our major projects.
The most significant area of focus for our organization today is the delivery of the Atwood Advantage from the DSME shipyard.
Like many of our competitors we have seen equipment delivery delays and shortages of key commissioning and troubleshooting personnel from major suppliers contributing to the late delivery.
In response we've been working very closely with the shipyard and our key suppliers to accelerate deliveries and commissioning of critical path equipment.
Based on today's progress assessment we expect that the Advantage will depart the DSME shipyard and commence its mobilization within 2 or 3 days either side of November 30 as long as we continue our current pace of progress and avoid major setbacks over the next 3 weeks.
Fortunately our learnings on the construction of the Atwood Advantage are directly transferable to our other 3 drillships.
Knowing what we do about the supply chain challenges of major rig equipment providers we have developed strategies to lessen the impacts on our drillship delivery schedules.
In addition we expect that these industry-wide supply chain issues may lessen somewhat as we move toward the middle of next year.
Thus we still believe that the Atwood Achiever can meet its scheduled June 30 2014 delivery schedule but we will have a better perspective on this in the new calendar year as we get closer to the scheduled completion date.
Our recent fleet status report highlights 3 projects in fiscal year 2014 involving our active rigs that we've been telegraphing for quite a few months and Mark will cover the financial impact of these in his comments.
On the marketing front things have been naturally a bit quieter for us this past quarter after the previous quarter's flurry of contract signings.
The one key contract since our last call was the 2-year extension for the Atwood Manta in Thailand.
We really like our position of having our 3 new Pacific Class rigs in this market with an average of 1.5 years of backlog on each rig.
Our most important near-term marketing objective is the securing of an extended program for the Atwood Hunter after it completes its upcoming regulatory and maintenance work in the first half of calendar 2014.
The Hunter continues to perform extremely well with a 99% revenue efficiency for the past year and with good safety performance.
We are pursuing marketing opportunities in Equatorial Guinea and in other nearby West African countries as our first priority.
And based on the visible work scope we believe that the Hunter will stay busy throughout the 2014 calendar year.
We are also advancing follow-on work discussions for the Atwood Mako and Atwood Falcon both of which have availability in late calendar 2014.
Contract discussions for the Atwood Admiral our third drillship with a scheduled delivery in March of 2015 have also increased.
As we move into calendar 2014 we expect an increase in the visibility of 2015 ultra-deepwater programs and the newbuild signings as more operators get serious about securing rigs for this timeframe.
Turning now to our market outlook.
We remain constructive on all segments of the offshore drilling space in which we participate.
The high-specification jack-up segment continues to be very solid with strong demand and rising day rates even as new rigs continue to be delivered.
The ultra-deepwater segment has been fairly quiet recently as fixtures have slowed but we saw a bit of this last year as well in the fourth quarter.
The good news is that we have not seen any compelling evidence that day rates or demand for the newest and most capable rigs such as our drillships have been impacted negatively.
And while there is definitely more uncertainty in the deepwater and lower-specification ultra-deepwater segments we believe that our 2014 calendar year exposure which is primarily through the Atwood Hunter and to a lesser extent the Atwood Falcon can be managed without a loss of continuity.
And finally last month we announced that we have agreed to sell the Vicksburg at the conclusion of its current contract in Thailand which is expected to occur in January of 2014.
The Vicksburg joined the Atwood fleet back in 1976 and has been a reliable contributor to Atwood's success during the past 35-plus years.
Continuing with this theme just this week we finalized agreement to sell the Seahawk our tender-assist rig that has been cold-stacked in Ghana since 2010.
We expect the Seahawk sale to be finalized by early December.
The divestiture of both of these rigs is consistent with the high grading of our offshore fleet and our conviction in the bifurcation of offshore drilling assets.
And this concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now hand it back over to Mark.
Thanks Rob.
Before I discuss our fourth quarter and full year ended 2013 financial results let me address the paragraph included in our Form 10-K yesterday regarding unresolved staff comment with respect to our annual report dated December -- September 30 2012.
This item relates to our revenue and expense recognition policies for day rates received and the corresponding expenses incurred through an additional mobilization of the Atwood Condor during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.
As presented in our 2012 annual report revenues and related costs were recognized as earned and incurred during the mobilization period.
Alternatively these mobilization of revenues and expense has been deferred and amortized for the duration of the usual 21-month contract whereas net income had been reduced in the fiscal fourth quarter and year ended 2012 and increased in the fiscal years 2013 and 2014.
As highlighted this would not impact the timing or amount of cash flows and in aggregate net income would net to 0 over the 21-month Condor contract.
We continue to work with the SEC staff to resolve this comment in the near term.
Let me now review our fourth quarter and full year results compare these results to the previous fiscal quarter and comment on our financial position and provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter and full year 2014.
Let's start with our fourth quarter highlights.
Record revenues of $293 million and $20 million ahead of our third quarter and revenues for the year just over $1 billion as Rob mentioned previously.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.58 as compared to $1.37 for the prior quarter an increase of 15% due to 39 additional operating days during the quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the entire fleet was 97%.
This is a 2% improvement on the previous quarter.
Looking back on fiscal 2013 as a whole revenue efficiency for the fleet was 95% with our jack-up fleet as a subset for the entire fleet realizing 99% revenue efficiency for the year.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable costs of $9 million totaled $112 million for the quarter ended September 30 2012 as compared to $110 million for the previous quarter.
The $110 million is also net of $9 million of reimbursable costs.
This increase in contract drilling costs is directly attributed to the increased operating days from the third quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 13.8% slightly below the previous quarter due to a change in the geographical mix of our operations.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $176 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of a down payment on the Atwood Archer upon the exercise of the option for fourth A-class drillship in addition to capital spares and project management and related costs with the other 3 drillships under construction during the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.17 billion at September 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio increasing to 34% up from 33% the previous quarter.
Let's now discuss our outlook for 2014 with emphasis on the fiscal first quarter.
Firstly we estimate reimbursable revenues of $45 million for fiscal '14 and $8 million to $12 million for the first quarter.
Contract drilling costs should range between $525 million and $545 million for fiscal 2014 and between $130 million and $140 million for the first quarter.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which should be -- which should approximate $30 million for 2014 and $6 million to $8 million for the first quarter.
The increase in contract drilling costs relates to a full year of operating costs on our newbuild high-specification jack-ups our 2 newbuild A-class drillships joining the fleet later this year and mid-2014 the Atwood Hunter's regulatory inspection maintenance and paint project and partially offset by the sale of the Vicksburg in early 2014.
Labor and other cost inflation was maintained in the 4% to 5% range which is very similar to what we've seen in 2012 and 2013.
Depreciation is estimated at $146 million to $150 million and $33 million for the first quarter.
General and administrative expenses should approximate $61 million for the year and $19 million for the first quarter.
Note that consistent with previous years our first quarter G&amp;A expenses skewed higher than the subsequent 3 quarters as our 2013 incentive compensation is paid and recognized in that quarter.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest should approximate $52 million for 2014 and $11 million for the first quarter.
We expect our tax rate to remain between 13% and 14% for 2014.
This excludes the tax on the $34 million gain on the sale of the Vicksburg which will be taxed at 30%.
We expect the sale to be completed in late December early January.
Therefore the effective tax rate for the affected quarter should approximate 19%.
In summary we expect both EBITDA margins and net margins to be flat year-on-year.
As noted in our recent fleet status report and by Rob earlier we have 3 regulatory projects scheduled for the first and second quarters.
Atwood Hunter's regulatory inspection maintenance and paint project will begin in mid-December and extend for 110 days.
This project is budgeted to $25 million of which we expect to capitalize $6 million.
Atwood Falcon's 5-year regulatory survey for a total of $7.4 million and extending for 15 days in December $2.9 million of this amount will be amortized over 30 months with the remainder being expensed.
And the Atwood Aurora's [indiscernible] in the second quarter totaling $3.4 million and extending for 5 days.
$1.6 million of this amount will be capitalized.
And finally the Atwood Beacon is currently in the midst of its 15-day 0-rate days waiting on the delivery of the vessel for its drive-through to Italy to begin its 2-year contract with ENI.
Note that we did not expect any further out-of-service with 0-rate days for the remainder of 2014.
Capital expenditures including maintenance CapEx in addition to our capital spares inventory and capitalized interest should total $960 million for 2014.
Of this amount we intend to spend $440 million in the first quarter which includes the final shipyard payment upon delivery of the Atwood Advantage from the DSME shipyard.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
Note that currently our contract backlog is $3.8 billion.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob is there any change in your strategic view for Atwood given the fundamentals at hand which you're certainly aware of what's happening with the bifurcating floater market? You expressed in your opening remarks that you still see the high-end drillship market steady.
And through that perspective I would assume that you -- your organic growth strategy is still in play as we go into '14 and look to contract the Archer and order of this drillship is that reasonable? Ian I would say that's a fair assessment.
What we're seeing in the ultra-deepwater space is a bifurcation between the newest and most capable rigs primarily drillships that offer the higher hook load to BOP systems and a number of other very attractive capabilities efficiencies and safety features.
The bifurcation of those rigs versus the lower-spec ultra-deepwater and deepwater rigs continues to develop and we think that that's quite supportive of our strategy of building the kind of technology rigs that we've been constructing to date.
So I would say that our strategy is very much intact and is being borne out by what's taking place in the market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
You mentioned also a pretty confident outlook in maintaining high -- you don't say seamless but high utilization for the Hunter post-shipyard next year.
What can you say about pricing pressure at this point and Transocean was certainly pretty clear on their view on that yesterday.
Have they gotten worse or steady from your perspective compared to a few months ago? Well keep in mind we just have 1 rig to worry about.
And so it's a little hard for me to characterize segment pressure that some of our competitors may be seeing.
As I mentioned in our prepared comments the Atwood Hunter has been absolutely a rock-solid performer.
I mean 99% revenue efficiency over the year is just outstanding frankly for any class of rig let alone a 5000-foot rig operating in West Africa where you've got challenges on supply chain customs and those sorts of things.
So that rig has an outstanding reputation.
It's a reason -- explains a bit why a company like Noble Energy has been working with the rig for the last 5 years and whether it's in Equatorial Guinea or somewhere nearby in West Africa we're seeing ample opportunities to keep that rig busy.
Our next question is from Clayton Cubbeck [ph] from Tudor Pickering Holt.
So in regards to your fiscal 2014 operating cost inflation what areas are you seeing as being the higher inflation versus the lower inflation areas? Or should we think about this more on kind of an asset-by-asset basis being high spec versus low spec? Clayton this is Mark.
I think as it relates to our fleet for next year we have very few rigs moving jurisdictions.
Where we do have jurisdictional change is the Beacon so you're going to see a change in cost there.
And obviously when the 2 drillships start working they're going to be incurring cost for the first time.
But for the rest of the fleet all you're going to really see there is the inflationary impact of the major costs like labor.
Labor is going to be up somewhere in that 4% to 5% area.
I think you're going to see some sort of cost perhaps with the airfare for crew changes.
Insurance for us in the last few years has been very good.
We've seen reductions there so I expect to see a similar sort of reduction going forward.
Then the other big costs are around repairs and maintenance.
And that typically is seeing inflation in the form of maybe 2% to 4% from some of our key suppliers.
So it's really across the board with the main driver being labor cost.
Okay.
And then given Atwood's strong Southeast Asia presence what countries within the region do you see is providing the most incremental demand going forward? Well I think it depends on whether you're talking about the ultra-deepwater or the shallow water.
And the traditional shallow water markets in Southeast Asia Malaysia Vietnam those markets and Thailand look to be strong markets going forward.
I think on the deepwater side in ultra-deepwater we see activity in Indonesia Malaysia as well as obviously more opportunities in Australia which isn't necessarily Southeast Asia but there's a lot of activity down there on that continent.
And so we continue to be encouraged by what's taking place in Australia where we have this very significant presence with 3 deepwater floaters one of which is ultra-deepwater the Atwood Osprey.
So we like that area of the world.
Now that doesn't necessarily mean that that's where we think our drillships will go.
We still think that the 2 remaining drillships the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer probably have a better than 50% chance of working somewhere in the Golden Triangle.
And -- but we'll certainly look at Southeast Asia and other let's say emerging deepwater and ultra-deepwater markets for opportunities for those rigs.
Our next question is from David Smith from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> It looks like Australia has been a great market for the moored deepwater rigs.
I wanted to ask if you're seeing additional competition there and what kind of barriers if any would discourage rigs that haven't worked in Australia? Yes I mean we are starting to see some dynamically positioned rigs come into the market.
They tend to be drilling in the deeper waters further off the shelf there.
But for the most part you're correct that with the relatively shallow bisymmetry surrounding Australia on the Northwest Shelf you see a lot of moored rigs.
I mean you have also seen activity being sourced for drilling in the Australian Bight which is in the southern part of the country and we'll have to see how that develops.
That's pretty harsh environment area and it needs a special kind of asset.
So we'll watch and see how that develops going forward.
But Atwood's been operating in the Australian province since early '70s.
We know the market extremely well.
We have been very successful as well in managing our business without a lot of union interference and we think that that works very well for our employees and for our clients because we're able to manage our business as we see fit and we continue to be able to operate that way in the Australian market.
We think that's a source of competitive advantage for Atwood and for our clients as we work there.
And the other regulatory challenges that you've got there with regard to safety case and compliance we're not seeing as regulations also serve as an entry barrier.
So we think we've got probably the longest experience in that market and some special characteristics in terms of how we run our business there that give us an advance longer-term and we feel very good about our position and we're there with the 3 rigs and feel that those rigs are likely to stay there for quite some time going forward.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great color.
The follow-up question was just looking at the market for lower-spec deepwater rigs in West Africa I wanted to ask if you're seeing more competition from rigs outside the region particularly from rigs currently based in the U.S.
Gulf.
And if so is that competition purely for the term work? Yes again we're really focused on the Atwood Hunter and as it relates specifically to the Atwood Hunter we're not really seeing any competitive threats yet.
We certainly understand that there's a lot of discussion around moving rigs from either the Gulf of Mexico or Brazil maybe toward West Africa and we'll just have to see how that plays out as we go forward.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I know those rigs are a decreasing part of the business but that's the only uncertainty I had and I appreciate the color.
Our next question is from Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to newbuilds.
Obviously you have an option for a new drillship.
How about on the jack-up side is that a market that you still have interest in growing further? Or for now the focus is primarily just on the drillship side? Thanks Waqar.
We certainly have interest in the jack-up market longer-term.
As you know there are quite a few jack-ups under construction and to be delivered over the next 2 to 3 years well over 100.
And we just saw another announcement this week of 5 more.
So this market looks to be pretty well supplied in the near term.
And -- but we're going to continue to look at it as an opportunity for us for future investment.
Right now we don't hold any specific options for extension of our jack-ups with any shipyard whereas we do have an option with the DSME shipyard for an extension of our ultra-deepwater fleet.
So that's certainly the most immediate opportunity for us but we will certainly look for the right opportunities to expand our jack-up fleet.
I'm just not sure that's a near-term priority for us.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Darren Gacicia from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask I know that there's some concern about the deepwater market out there.
One of the things that seems like it could play through is that some of these rigs can get stacked especially if they're in need of big capital employment.
I mean what's your outlook there when you're going to look broadly across the space and you think about kind of how it applies to your fleet going forward? Obviously you're still looking to grow but -- and maybe only have 1 kind of rig that's a little bit more in flux in terms of the Hunter.
But just more generally looking at the industry and the outlook do you see kind of a rig replacement/fleet attrition issue becoming a bigger factor? It's a great question.
We've told the story a few times before.
But before 2011 the Atwood Eagle the Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Hunter were the most capable rigs in the Atwood fleet and we for many years maintained those through an extremely high standard so that they've never had a lot of the operational issues or repair problems that some of our competitors' rigs have had of the same vintage.
This project we're doing on the Atwood Hunter next -- over the next quarter or 2 is really relatively modest in terms of scope relative to what some of our competitors are compelled to do when they take their rigs in for periodic surveys because they have deferred maintenance over many years and haven't maintained those rigs because they haven't been the most capable rigs in their fleet.
So we feel very good about the condition of our rigs.
As I said in my prepared comments the Atwood Hunter had 99% revenue efficiency in 2013.
I mean that is a world-class standard for any floating rig and that's the proof in the pudding for is this a capable rig? Can it still drill wells reliably and efficiently? The answer is absolutely yes.
So we -- again we focus less on the segment and more on our rigs in the segment.
We've got limited exposure there.
But we are also big believers in bifurcation.
It's why we've embarked on our newbuild program.
We know that the Atwood Eagle Atwood Falcon and Atwood Hunter will not continue to drill indefinitely and that there will come a day when they will be replaced either because they're technically not capable or eventually they reach a 35- or 40-year life and it's time to retire them because of the wear and tear.
So our strategy has been very consistent with that.
We just don't see that day of reckoning happening here in the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Switching gears a little bit on the follow-up.
It's my understanding of it there's restrictions in some of your debt with regard to investment grade ratings and paying a dividend.
Some of that kind of having threshold points on your PP&amp;E levels and the rest.
Is that correct? What are your those thresholds? How do you think about managing that and how do you think about that with regard to kind of future potential payout strategies? Well Darren as you know we have a target of the being investment grade over the next 3 years.
If you look at our credit metrics currently and over the last several years we've been solidly investment grade throughout this timeframe.
Even with adding a little debt in the last couple of years to complete this newbuild program we're still within the parameters set by the agencies for investment grade ratings.
So with that being said our debt both the revolving credit facility which is fully prepayable at any point in time and our senior notes which will become callable in about 1 year 1.5 years both of those amounts of debt can be refinanced if and when we achieve our goals with regard to investment grade.
As you know once you are investment grade the limitations around dividends are no longer applicable and at that point we can consider all uses of cash including dividends and stock repurchases.
Our next question is from JB Lowe from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a -- I was just curious how much did you sell the Seahawk tender rig for? The sale price was $6 million JB.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just on the Hunter that was really interesting color about how those 3 deepwater rigs used to be your highest-spec rigs so they are much more well-maintained than some of their peer rigs.
But I just had a question on the upgrade.
Is there anything that you guys are doing in the upgrade that will allow that rig to get a higher day rate coming out of the yard? Any specific equipment that you're adding or anything? JB just to be clear higher than 515 a day.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I guess that's right.
No I think what we're doing there is what we've done with the Eagle and the Falcon over the last couple of years.
As these rigs are acquired you go through their periodic surveys.
We're doing the same thing with the Hunter.
But as you know this rig has not been at the yard for quite a few years so it will come out it will be as capable and as Rob said you're operating at 99% revenue efficiency for the year is pretty amazing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And that kind of brings up my other question as to -- I mean Noble has projects all around the world.
Is there a reason why they wanted to let go of this rig given the fact that they know it so well and that it's done so well for them? Well I wouldn't say that Noble has let go of the rig.
I mean we do have a program that has interceded there.
But we think Noble and others have got additional work in Equatorial Guinea and nearby West African nations and Noble's certainly a potential candidate to sign up for some follow-on work on the Atwood Hunter.
So you could -- you should read into that little -- that short-term program that's on our fleet status report has precluded Noble from taking the rig back afterwards.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we appreciate everybody's interest and we look forward to updating you on our first quarter in early calendar '14.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time.