Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the VeriFone Systems Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Doug Reed Senior Vice President of Treasury and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Reed the floor is yours sir.
Thank you Mike and welcome everyone to the VeriFone financial results conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.
With me today in San Jose is our CEO Paul Galant and our CFO Marc Rothman.
A recording of this call and the slides will be available on our Investor Relations website until January 14 2016.
First for the legalities this current information you will hear on this call will consist of forward-looking statements including management’s view of future events and financial performance.
These statements are subject to various factors risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our outlook.
For more information I refer you to our SEC filings including today’s earnings release and our most recent 10-K and 10-Q.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of today and VeriFone is under no obligation to update these statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Please note that on today’s call we will refer to certain non-GAAP income statement items and other non-GAAP metrics.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures and other information regarding the non-GAAP measures are presented in our earnings release which is available on our website at ir.verifone.com.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Paul Galant CEO of VeriFone.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We are pleased to report that our business delivered strong financial results in Q4.
And with the launch of VeriFone’s Engage family of devices and services we really have further positioned VeriFone for client leadership and growth in the years ahead.
Q4 revenue of $514 million was a second consecutive record revenue quarter and represented a year-over-year reported growth rate of 5% and a constant currency growth rate of 15%.
In addition to again achieving record revenues we delivered earnings per share of $0.49 11% growth over last year.
Importantly we also increased our operating margins by an additional 90 basis points in the quarter to 14.8%.
Revenue earnings per share and free cash flow exceeded our expectations the 10th consecutive quarter where our results have met or exceeded our quarterly guidance.
As in our prior quarters we did exactly what we said we were going to do.
We delivered on our commitments of improved client performance and share gains in important markets.
We increased revenue growth we improved our profitability and most importantly we announced our next generation of new products and services the first for VeriFone in many many years.
We previewed these new solutions to clients in Q4 and are already seeing strong sales pipelines as a result.
For the full fiscal year we achieved our management’s scorecard targets by capitalizing on U.S.
EMV launching the VeriFone Engage family of devices and services as well as our new E Series mobile solutions expanding our payment-as-a-services business and partnering with Visa to bring merchants acquirers and banks a global omni-commerce platform for consumers.
In FY ‘15 VeriFone grew revenues by $130 million that’s an increase of 7%.
Interestingly and somewhat shockingly on a constant currency basis we would have grown $290 million or 16% in this period.
Additionally our operating margin over the year improved by 120 basis points to 14.3%.
So we accomplished these results while aggressively reinvesting to build our next generation products and services and we did all this in the face of severe FX headwinds and of course an increasingly complex global macroeconomic environment.
We are going to continue to drive revenue growth and improve our margin but we are not going to delay our sacrifice the execution of our strategic roadmap in the pursuit of short-term results.
VeriFone’s most critical mission by far is to continue transforming our company into a client-first organization and pivoting further from a vendor of payment terminals to a payment and commerce services provider.
That’s our number one goal.
As some of you may recall January 2016 will be the second year anniversary of the launch of our transformation program and we are on track to outperform all of our transformation objectives that we set back then as noted on Slide 6.
Our transformation program has conservatively generated well over $40 million in annual run rate savings with more to come in fiscal year ‘16.
Approximately 75% of the savings that we generated were reinvested into our new products and services making up for VeriFone’s lack of investment in prior years.
Our FY ‘16 new product and services roadmap is by far our most robust in at least the past decade.
It really is night and day.
Now that we have launched VeriFone’s next generation of solutions we are actively working on certification and global distribution.
We also recently announced two strategic acquisitions in the services space.
In Q4 we closed the acquisition of Curb which helped us to grow our U.S.
taxi network of card acceptance to approximately 50 000 vehicles in the U.S.
and our global total to approximately 70 000.
With this acquisition we also became a leading provider of e-hailing for taxis and are now enabling at least 90 000 consumer e-hailed rides per month.
And we recently announced as I think most of you saw the planned acquisition of InterCard a German-based payment-as-a-services provider with 75 000 connected terminals which will once completed enhance our position as a leading pan-European payment services provider with more than 700 000 connected terminals and a robust network of gateways.
Now the remaining 25% of our transformation savings drove margin and EPS improvement.
With our improved earnings and free cash flow we also announced VeriFone’s first ever stock buyback program in September.
This $200 million buyback further reinforces our commitment to a balanced approach to capital allocation our deep desire to return capital to our shareholders and the strong confidence of the Board and the management team in the future of VeriFone.
To this end we are pleased to report that we have already repurchased the first $100 million of shares.
Now I am going to discuss three major important macro trends VeriFone’s strategy and our product launches that underpin our FY ‘16 outlook.
So the first trend I want to highlight is of course the ongoing U.S.
migration to EMV where 60% of devices in the United States still need to be upgraded.
This upgrade cycle will provide tailwinds for the next several years.
Last quarter we projected VeriFone revenue growth of 3% in North America for FY ‘16.
Given the acceleration in North America’s sequential growth in Q4 for VeriFone our continued momentum with SMB clients our petroleum and services momentum and our strong backlog and increased pipeline visibility we are today announcing that we are increasing our projection for FY ‘16 North America revenue growth to 5%.
The second trend that we see is the global acceleration of cash to electronic payments.
Our on-the-ground presence in so many different markets around the globe gives us insight and confidence that the world’s move from cash to electronic payments is in fact accelerating and will gain further momentum throughout 2016.
Evidence of this includes the move to terminal fiscalization by several governments around the globe demand for 3G portable and mPOS devices the global growth in mobile wallets and programs for the unbanked VeriFone is today better positioned than ever to help our clients capitalize on this trend.
Throughout our 2-year transformation program we have made substantial investments and improvements in our regional franchises our product and product certifications and our sales leadership.
In Western Europe on a constant currency basis we continue to grow our business by double digits in key markets by taking share.
In Asia we again moved and improved sequentially as our leadership changes and our investments are starting to pay off with improved results.
And in Latin America although we expect our investments to yield long-term sustainable growth the fact is that this region continues to face significant economic and political issues and VeriFone does not yet have a full product portfolio with which to compete in places like Brazil.
There are bright spots such as Mexico such as Colombia and such as Chile where we will have a more competitive portfolio.
We – in fact we already do and we will have a more competitive portfolio of products by the second half of the year throughout the entire region including Brazil.
And finally the third trend is the convergence of payments and commerce which we are capitalizing on with VeriFone’s next generation of devices and services including gateways and solutions that help our clients to reduce security risks and drive sales.
We announced our new VeriFone Engage family of devices and we demonstrated several revolutionary new consumer identity and security solutions at the Money 2020 Conference in October which we expect to bring to market throughout 2016.
We also began shipping our top of the line e355 mPOS solution in September and will soon bring additional new mobile products to market globally.
The delivery of these devices will help accelerate the growth of VeriFone services business which we expanded geographically from 13 to 17 countries in 2015 and will grow to 21 countries in the coming year.
While services revenue declined by 2% on a reported basis in FY ‘15 it grew by 8% on a constant currency basis.
And in fiscal year ‘16 we're expecting growth of approximately 8% on a reported basis and 14% on a constant currency basis.
In fiscal year ‘16 we will bring important new services to our clients.
We will unveil the VeriFone app marketplace in the second quarter enabling our clients and third party app developers to create and deploy payment and commerce applications on VeriFone devices.
Also in the first half of the year we will begin on-boarding merchants through our global omni-commerce solution in conjunction with Visa.
And finally our digital media business that business continues to scale and we will introduce consumer targeting as well as card and smartphone linked offer functionality as a service.
In support of these three trends VeriFone’s strategy and resulting next generation products and services provide our clients with a highly differentiated value proposition.
These solutions will enable VeriFone to capture an increasing share of the $4 billion terminal solutions market and the much larger $100 billion plus market for payment services and commerce enablement.
So to close Q4 was a solid end to an important year.
The VeriFone team has done what we said we were going to do.
We strengthened our foundation and invested in the next generation of our product platform.
I couldn’t be more excited about what 2016 is going to bring.
So with that I am going to pause here and turn it over to my partner our CFO Marc Rothman.
Hi.
Thank you Paul.
Consistent with past practice we will be referring to certain financial metrics on a non-GAAP basis.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP metrics are presented in our earnings release and available on our website.
Please always refer to this information for a comprehensive review of our financial results.
For fiscal year 2015 we reached a milestone with annual revenues crossing the $2 billion mark.
Revenues grew 7% on a reported basis and 16% on a constant currency basis and earnings were $1.83 compared to $1.51 in 2014 a 21% increase.
Turning to the fourth quarter we exceeded our overall financial expectations.
We reported record net revenues on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis of $514 million compared to guidance of $510 million to $513 million.
Revenues increased 5% from a year ago and excluding the impact of foreign exchange was 15% on a constant currency basis.
Earnings per share were $0.49 compared to $0.44 a year ago and also exceeded guidance of $0.47 to $0.48 per share.
Now let me discuss briefly results by product line.
Q4 revenues for system solutions were $339 million it was up 9% year-on-year and up 17% on a constant currency basis.
We continue to build momentum across this product line as we deploy new solutions globally and benefit from the acceleration of EMV mobility and petroleum.
Service revenues were $175 million in Q4 down 3% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis year-over-year revenue growth was 10%.
We saw continued growth in our payments-as-a-service business as well as strength in taxi and media businesses.
Service revenues comprised 34% of our business during the quarter and we expect services to grow as a component of our business in the coming quarters.
Turning to our strong gross margin performance consolidated gross margin was 43.4% up 170 basis points sequentially and up 110 basis points compared to a year ago.
For system solutions gross margins improved to 43.2% of revenue compared to 41.1% last quarter and 41.5% a year ago.
These improvements reflect both favorable mix and supply chain improvements across both procurement and quality as we leverage the benefits of our supply chain transformation.
Services gross margins of 43.9% were up 100 basis points compared to the prior quarter reflecting favorable mix of service revenues and were comparable to the prior year.
Consolidated operating expenses in Q4 were $147 million an increase of $6 million compared with Q3 reflecting additional investments in new product and services platforms including in China as well as higher year end expenditures for sales and marketing efforts.
Let me now discuss results by geography.
In North America we delivered record revenues of $230 million representing 10% growth sequentially and 54% year-over-year.
Our North America multi-lane retail group continued to deliver excellent results.
Revenue was up significantly from last year and modestly down from the prior quarter as expected.
Both our mobile products and security solutions were key drivers during Q4.
Our U.S.
petrol business delivered another strong quarter with sequential growth and significant growth from a year ago.
We continue to gain market share with our next generation products including our site controllers and POS systems.
We expect accelerating momentum in petro business with our Gilbarco partnership ramp up which will allow us to capitalize on the 2017 EMV liability shift.
And in our small and medium business vertical we delivered excellent results sequentially and significant growth on a year-over-year basis driven by market share gains of EMV-ready solutions to the channel certified products to the market and expanding relationships across all major acquirers and processors.
And finally in North America net revenues in taxi payment transaction and media businesses were similar to third quarter levels and up year-over-year.
Turning to Latin America revenues for Q4 were $63 million down 15% sequentially 23% year-over-year on a reported basis and 5% on a constant currency basis.
The economic environment in Brazil is the primary driver for these declines partially offset by growth in other Latin America markets.
We expect continued macro softness in this region in the first half of 2016 but expect the launch of new products including our mPOS solution to improve these results during the second half of FY 2016.
In Middle East – in Europe Middle East and Africa revenues of $164 million were down 5% sequentially and 13% from the prior year reflecting foreign exchange headwinds.
On a constant currency basis year-over-year revenues however were down 2%.
We continue to see double-digit year-over-year revenue growth on a constant currency basis and improving market share throughout Western Europe contributing to strengthen stability in this part of the region.
The region results were slightly impacted by challenges in oil dependent markets including Russia and Nigeria.
And finally in Asia Q4 revenues of $57 million were up 4% sequentially down 18% from the prior year and 3% on a constant currency basis.
These year-over-year declines occurred primarily in China as expected.
We are optimistic about our longer term opportunities in China market and continued to invest in developing locally designed and engineered products for this region.
Australia and New Zealand businesses continued to do well with significant year-over-year growth.
We are making good progress on product and service deployments with Westpac in the rollout of our payment-as-a-service business across these two countries.
Now turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with a cash balance of $209 million gross debt of $799 million and net debt of $590 million.
In late September our Board of Directors approved our first ever stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $200 million worth of shares.
Since our announcement we have repurchased 3.5 million shares for $100 million or half of our authorized program with 75% of this amount completed in Q4.
We are committed to a balanced capital allocation strategy including capital return to shareholders when strategic needs are met.
We will continue to repurchase shares under our program throughout FY 2016 subject to business and market conditions.
Now I would like to briefly discuss working capital metrics.
Overall our cash conversion cycle was 44 days in Q3 which represents an improvement of 5 days compared to Q3 and an increase of 2 days compared to a year ago.
The change from Q3 was primarily driven by improvements in accounts payable days partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable days.
Turning to cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2015 cash flow from operations was $81 million and free cash flow was $52 million.
Both cash flow metrics reflect our best quarterly performance in the last three years.
Capital expenditures were $28 million in the quarter.
Approximately 45% of these expenditures relate to customer premises equipment for payment-as-a-service taxi and media businesses and the related infrastructure.
And lastly let me discuss financial guidance.
For fiscal year 2016 we are guiding revenues of $2.09 billion to $2.11 billion reflecting revenue growth of 5% and constant currency revenue growth of approximately 9% at the midpoint of this guidance.
This outlook reflects expectations that North America will grow 5% and excludes revenue from pending acquisitions.
The impact of an acquisition will be included in guidance and provided on earnings calls once an acquisition has closed.
We expect earnings per share for FY ‘16 in the range of $2.15 to $2.17 and we expect free cash flow generation to be approximately $175 million.
And for Q1 we are guiding non-GAAP revenue of $500 million and non-GAAP earnings of $0.45 per share.
Please refer to Slide 16 of our earnings presentation for additional forward-looking financial information.
Thank you.
And with that let me now open the call to your questions.
Mike? Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] The first question we have comes from Tien-tsin Huang of JPMorgan.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just I will ask on North America first just the up 5% obviously upward revision from the 3 percentage you stated.
But maybe can you give us some more detail on what’s giving you the greater confidence here to revise that up to 5%? Hey Tien-tsin it’s Paul.
Thanks for asking the question.
Yes I think there are number of things.
I can think of at least five off the top of my head that caused us to do that.
One is that with EMV we still have 60% of the 13 million point-of-sale devices or about 8 million that need EMV upgrade and that’s roughly what we predicted in the last few quarters but 8 million devices that needs – still need to be upgraded is a pretty good – pretty big field.
Tier 1 as I think everybody knows is mostly finished but our SMB business is really accelerating and Greenfield remains a big opportunity and is starting to turn.
So our thoughts is that by October of 2016 so at the end of our fiscal year just give you about still 40% or 5 million EMV terminals that would still need to be upgraded.
So that’s why we – in addition to having a conviction in 2016 growth we see it going beyond that.
As Marc mentioned Petro the liability shift in 2017 is something that folks are really starting get ahead of.
They see how difficult it’s been for the merchants the general merchant community to get to the EMV date in 2015.
So they are starting early and they are focused.
We think that’s about a $50 million incremental revenue opportunity for us in FY ‘16.
We have got very strong client relationships in Petro.
We have the right technology the right services.
And we think that all of that in combination with our Gilbarco relationship is really going to allow us to do quite well.
The third area is mPOS.
Just in general it is something that there is a lot of interest in.
In Tier 1 one of the biggest opportunities and we see it in Tier 2 as well is to supplement the countertops with devices that salespeople can walk around with.
That will be a big deal for us.
Mobile payments is really expanding.
Despite questions around some of these articles I can tell you that the mobile wallet providers whether that would be the folks at Apple or Samsung or Google or how you listen in some of the others like MCX all of that gets to more opportunity for us.
And then lastly is media.
We have got the largest digital media network out-of-home network in the United States.
We are seeing a lot of interest by advertisers.
We are growing that.
And the Curb acquisition definitely helped the network.
We think all of that is going to play to our strength.
Okay.
That is helpful.
And then just as my follow up and just on the international front I guess reported revenue growth implies 5% clearly faster constant currency and you exited the year down internationally.
So just thinking about ‘16 maybe the geographic mix the composition by region any more detailed guidance there to give? Thanks.
Well let me take the first stuff.
I am sure Marc will give us good facts but bit of a frustrating situation I would say the things that VeriFone can do well is to have the right product and the right service in the right markets.
And I feel that if you look at the business in FY ‘16 in local currency terms right which is the currencies in which we actually do business we took share we grew revenue.
The translation from that local currency to the U.S.
dollar was obviously a nightmare all year.
So we continue to believe that the work that we do the things we can control will help us to capture share.
The products that we have and the services are better than those of our competitors.
We are confident.
As those products and services get certification and distribution we will capture more share.
What we cannot account for unfortunately is the fact that oil countries which have been buying our products are not buying as many products of anything because they have been walloped.
There is a lot of political turmoil going on in the rest of the world and it’s just harder than ever to forecast.
So rather than leaning heavily into it and give you a rosy picture we are looking up the reality of a rather uncertain time in these kinds of markets and we will do our best but it’s a little bit tough to forecast.
Marc I don’t know if you want to have anything to add to that.
I do.
Hey Tien-tsin thanks.
So let me put a wrapper around actually all four geographies and I want to start with North America.
So North America in 2015 we did around $790 million of revenue.
And Paul and I have guided to 5% growth.
And within North America the four verticals of small medium business petro and taxi we expect significant growth.
Petro will lead those three verticals.
And as I pointed out in my opening remarks with multi-lane we expected and saw that continue to trend down as large retailers complete most of their EMV hardware migrations.
So that’s the wrap around North America going into 2016.
There is a number of tales across the international theaters and I will start with EMEA.
So again we would expect mid single-digit percent growth on a reported basis and there will be some I think real positives in Western Europe for us generally speaking.
And as Paul pointed out in these oil-producing countries and I mentioned Russia and Nigeria we expect the continued normal pressure there.
So Europe if you think about it made – EMEA mid single-digits and then 2X that on a constant currency basis.
Asia is a similar story in terms of growth.
We are expecting 5% or mid single-digit again percent growth on a reported basis and again 2X that on constant currency.
China will be a little bit more muted for us as we rebuild that franchise and hope by the middle of 2016 we will begin to launch the new products that we are working on.
And Latin America is a tougher patch for us and we both covered that early on.
We are guiding Latin America we are expecting it conservatively to be flat to down.
Again Brazil is in pretty significant recession.
It’s a very important market and customer base for us.
It’s a rough patch.
And we are just going to guide cautiously in Latin America and that’s reflected in the numbers that we have provided.
Alright that’s great.
That’s all good and reasonable.
Thank you.
Thank you Tien-tsin.
Next we have Dan Perlin RBC Capital.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to circle back on North America just for a second.
You just called out petro as being kind of the leader of the pack is there not any sensitivity to these contracts that you guys have set up with Gilbarco around oil prices at all so we shouldn’t be at all concerned about that variability it sounds like that’s just going to get built out and the incremental I think you said it was $50 million.
It sounds like that’s what you said last quarter so I am assuming the acceleration is either coming in SMB or maybe better than expected multi-lanes from these other opportunities I just want to get a finer point on that? Thanks.
Yes.
Well let me start and then Paul will add some more color.
So first of all Dan thanks for the question.
Petro was broken out really into two markets for us inside the convenience store and that’s where all of the momentum has come from in 2015 and we see significant momentum going into 2016 around that.
Gilbarco partnership is very complementary to us and that’s outside in the fourth quarter at the pump and that begins – that continues to ramp or really begins to ramp with devices as well as media.
And with respect to the petro numbers being the most significant of the three verticals I call that in 2016 in terms of growth correct SMB also caught momentum.
So we are really pleased with what we saw in Q4 and the pipeline of visibility looks really good in small medium business as well.
Is there anything to call out on the – the DSOs gone up to 63 days versus the prior year I mean I know in aggregate you still manage this thing incredibly tight but that did step up and I didn’t get the full explanation so what’s driving that? Well these things do ebb and flow and it’s dependent upon the timing of shipments in any given quarter.
I think if this does tie well to North America and SMB the liability shift date being end of October there was higher shipments in October in North America than originally planned by the way contributed to the upside in North America.
So we saw higher sales in October in that region.
The good news that is that the momentum continues very nicely into Q1 and thereafter.
Hey Dan before we hang up on that question you asked about oil prices and its effect on Gilbarco.
There is little to no effect oil prices vis-à-vis the gas station operators maybe people will get gas more often which is kind of what we want and we will visit the convenience store more often which is also what we want with more money in their pocket.
So if anything I think lower gas prices helps our petro vertical.
Okay.
I was thinking more of the working capital requirements but I guess that’s more of a job or you should earn this for Gilbarco so okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Next we have S.K.
Prasad Borra of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A couple if I may.
Probably to start off what portion of the cost savings in FY ‘16 are you reinvesting into the business? And the second question on free cash flow what are the key drivers for free cash flow growth in FY ’16 and can you provide any CapEx guidance? Yes.
Let me take the first one.
So as I think everybody knows we were dealing with a pretty significant technical debt a technology debt going into 2014 and ’15 we have been digging ourselves out of that successfully.
Applying the – most of the savings that we generate in our transformation we used to put back into the business and fill our new Engage family of products our new gateway architecture all the ADKs and we have been really at it.
We do not need [Technical Difficulty] level these particular areas.
And I would imagine it’s going from 75% to about 50% towards products.
The fact is is that we like making sure that when we see opportunities to go into this $100 billion pool of payment services and commerce enablement we want to have the ability to spend as we see ways of capitalizing on that growth and at marketplace monetizing our screens the next generation of applications that we have these are all ways that I think we can capture a much much larger market as well as expanding our footprint services.
As I mentioned we did – we went from 13 to 17 and we are going to grow again to 21.
All of that obviously requires investment but we think it’s got a good certainly a good long-term return.
Hi S.K.
let me add some color on your comment or question on cash flow.
So free cash flow we are guiding to $175 million.
And just for a point of reference it’s up 23% from last year’s $143 million.
And within that the CapEx we are going to guide to $110 million.
If you recall we guided higher last year and we ended up coming at $107 million.
So as a percentage of revenue CapEx is being I think effectively managed.
Last year a few projects pushed out in taxi and whatnot things are on track but we are certainly trying to keep reigns on CapEx.
So you got $110 million of CapEx and you should model here for depreciation amortization about $65 million or so.
And then in between there was just changes in CapEx and some hangover on some restructuring costs that we announced and we accrued and that will be paid into 2016.
So think about $175 million as the balance guidance for 2016.
That’s great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Andrew Jeffrey SunTrust.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question and thank you Marc for the geo detail that’s I think that’s really helpful.
Paul I think in conversations with you and in public comments you seem to be gaining a lot of confidence and in fact granular confidence as it relates to fiscal ‘16 revenue guidance around the services strategy.
And I think you laid out the Visa gateway relationship is a pretty important driver media as an important driver of this services acceleration in ’16 can you just maybe describe exactly what you are seeing that gives you that confidence especially around the omni-channel offering with CyberSource how is that going to work and how do you get paid? And – because I think if there is a lot of conviction out there that’s going to help investors feel especially this valuation like VeriFone’s bargain? Yes.
Well listen Andrew thank you for the question.
As I said we are singularly focused pivoting the company from the perception that we are a vendor of hardware to what is the reality which is we are a services provider.
We love the fact that we have these terminals as a footprint in 150 countries in order to scale.
And I agree with you I don’t think that the current stock price reflects all of that but it’s important stuff.
Let me start with the services IBM and I will have Marc comment on the specifics of the CyberSource deal.
But services has a couple of buckets guys that I think that the strategy that we have laid out is one that we can point to specific places where it’s monetizing already and now the question is how quickly can it scale.
So you start with a device which is at the last inch of where commerce is done.
150 countries now we are in 29 million locations because that’s the number of terminals we have outstanding.
Take advice that really is they are just to do a payment and we shift it as a box.
Over the years each one of those are going to get converted to a network endpoint.
The device is connected to a Gateway the Gateway has connections to an App Store and the App Store contains things which go well beyond the payment.
And I demoed a number of them in Money 2020.
Those applications when they are run on these terminals they get half the world’s card transactions going through them.
So we have to actually capture a very small amount of activity in order to make a big difference in economics.
That’s why we say we are going for the – after the $10 billion payment-as-a-service market and the $100 billion commerce enablement market.
With that as a strategy going from a terminal that has a relatively low long-term value you sell it it costs you something to manufacture it costs you something to warranty it and then you hope to sell it again 5 years later when a rule change happens or if somebody wants to refresh.
That was the bulk of the business.
We are moving to a place where you deliver a service that happens to have a terminal but it’s got a lot of other value-added services attached to it.
And so that creates an annuity revenue stream.
The connection to CyberSource and Visa the purpose of that is to capture all of the sales channels that merchants care about and be able to provide the same experience to consumers whether they are standing next to our device using their mobile phone or sitting at home with their iPad or a laptop.
The infrastructure to do that on a global basis is a very very unique asset and the companies that have that unique asset by working together Visa and VeriFone we can create this omni-commerce platform where you buy online you pickup in-store you do all of the lifecycle management and you are able to maintain the history of what that consumer does for the benefit of the merchant across all of those channels.
That is a very different revenue margin and earnings growth company than what I think historically you have seen from VeriFone and quite frankly which is how we are being valued today in my opinion.
Marc I don’t know if you want to....
Well I was just going to thanks Paul hi Andrew.
I was just going to add some financials on top of it just to give another holistic view.
So $692 million worth of services revenue in 2015 guiding to reported growth of 8%.
And just to complement what Paul said or I will be additive to it the media business certainly inside petrol is a nice contributing factor as well.
The petrol business growing also attracts a very good services model we are able to get significant services from annual maintenance agreements and whatnot so that’s certainly a positive too.
And our payment-as-a-service business not to leave that out of the discussion continues to grow in geographies including North America.
So I just wanted to add a few data points Andrew around the 8% growth and is being tied to petrol payment-as-a-service services media and the taxi business as well.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then a quick one as well you mentioned Paul I think that you are seeing your – some of your SMB channel relationships improve.
Do you think you have a sustainable share shift at work there? I do Andrew.
I think that we have which is why I mentioned the visibility into the sales pipeline and channels.
Our clients want to do more business with us.
They like us as a partner.
They trust us as a partner.
They like our new products.
They like our services.
We have certainly greatly improved the relationships across the board and we are now seeing the benefit of share shift in our channels.
My strong conviction is that that’s going to continue and it’s going to certainly go well beyond North America.
I just think we are a better partner more financial institutions and merchants than we have ever been and we intend to continue to improve on that lead.
The long-haul the intent has always been Certs.
Like I tell you that will happen it’s an all the project plans I have got dates it just takes a little bit of time so no instant gratification but a tremendous amount of demand and visibility which is why we are making the statements that we are making about North America.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Andrew.
Next we have Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.
Hi guys.
I just want to ask a couple of questions on – I guess the first one was there any supply constraints? We heard some scuttlebutt in the market that there were some supply constraints especially maybe in even in small business.
And then secondly just looking for cadence by quarter in North America I assume the first quarter maybe you can give us some guidance there Marc and then what it looks like going throughout the year? Thanks.
Yes let me start with the supply.
I think that that was greatly overblown.
Here is what happened which is pretty straightforward.
Instead of ordering 100 000 terminals we have got orders for 200 000 terminals and that’s a good thing.
And so instead of being able to deliver everything in one week we have to extend it over two weeks.
I mean it’s that kind of thing.
Certainly the amount that we had promised to deliver we delivered.
The incremental took within a week or two but it’s – everyone has got my phone number who is a client and I am not getting calls about that and in all my conversations people are pretty happy with our products and the delivery of them.
So I just don’t see it Bryan.
Okay yes.
Good.
And let me add some color.
I should probably start with the consolidated quarter so $500 million guidance for Q1 and then ramping up each quarter sequentially.
In North America I think we will have a pretty strong Q1 I would expect it to be down slightly from Q4.
And I am really looking at least for planning purposes on Q2 Q3 and Q4 to be probably slightly off Q1 but relatively flat in each one of those periods.
There is still at least from of visibility perspective I have – Paul and I have nice visibility into SMB and we see a lot of momentum off of the October date.
So we are guiding up a little bit more in the SMB market.
We will see how that plays out but we are a little bit more balanced the rest the year.
You are talking about sequentially Marc for all those? Well I am talking about a strong Q1 and then down Q2 and then really across the board Q2 Q3 and Q4 at least from a planning purpose we are about the same amount in each quarter in North America.
Okay.
But Q1 will be down slightly only slightly though sequentially is what you are saying on a from 4Q to 1Q? Correct that’s right.
Okay.
Last question for me you talked about I think two times the growth rate for mid-single digits on a constant currency basis in EMEA and Asia both those would be solid recoveries.
What gives you the confidence that you are going to see an acceleration I think the EMEA was down and Asia were down on a constant currency basis in the fourth quarter? Thanks so much.
Sure.
I think just in general we have got good visibility into pipeline.
It was a tough comp for us in 2015 clearly in certain pockets like China so that’s behind us.
I think we continued to take some share into the just general macro in some of those marketplaces.
And again I would say that the comp was pretty tough in EMEA as well in 2015 off of a tough Russia downtick for us we had significant reduction in revenues in oil producing countries and based upon our outlook and maybe the more much more balanced comp we don’t see that issue going into 2016.
So it’s I guess more normalized and the pipeline from what I could see would substantiate the 5% or mid single-digit in the 2X constant currency growth in that region as well.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Bryan.
Next we have Meghna Ladha of Susquehanna.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question congratulations on a good quarter.
I was just trying to figure out the petrol segment you did say that the 2017 EMV liability shift is starting early but how long do you think it will take the petro margins to fully upgrade to EMV could this be – could they get all done in 2017 or is this more of a 3-year revenue opportunity for VeriFone? Meghna thanks for the question.
It is definitely more than 1 year stint here.
I think if you speak to any merchant any merchant at all across the U.S.
what you will find out it is those that we are able to process an EMV transaction on October 1 2015 started early in 2014 it is a process.
There are – the U.S.
has built itself on magnetic stripe and all the infrastructure is magnetic stripes.
So when you do the upgrade you are not just upgrading the hardware you are upgrading the – what happens at the acquirer you are upgrading what happens in the payment network you are upgrading what happens across all the certification points.
So it is a process.
And so I think that what I hope I communicated was that the petrol community has seen just how hard hit it has been in the general merchant community and they are starting early.
But that just means that more petrol as a percentage will be ready on the 2017 EMV date.
I think among U.S.
merchants only 8% were able to accept an EMV payment on October 1 gives you a sense.
So I think more we will be able to accept it but it is a multi-year process beyond 2017.
Got it.
And then any early feedback on the new VeriFone Engage device that you are selling into the SMB segment how does the price point compare to the terminals that are currently sold to this segment and what’s the value proposition you are – especially for multi-sensitive merchants? Thank you for that question.
So we are in field trial with one of the largest banks in Mexico today in VeriFone Engage.
Responses from both consumers and the merchants that are acquired by this particular bank have been outstanding.
I think what you will hear from people that have used it and seen it they think it’s got a great intuitive consumer-driven design and UI which is very important.
It’s – it really is quite a bit different than what you are used to on a payment device that is not just software but that’s also the way that that software works on the device.
They love the flexible communication options so there are many many ways that that Engage device talks to a consumer not just with a great high resolution powerful screen but also talks to their phone talks to their card it allows for all sorts of different communication protocols well beyond what we can do today with our other devices.
It’s got expanded payment options it’s commerce-enabled which is – which means that if you really peel the onion about 20% of that device is really engineered for the payment and it’s great security and all that but 80% of it is deal for – is really designed to engage in a commerce dialogue with the consumer right? This is where you are able to offer a coupon or a loyalty program you are able to burn points you are able to do all sorts of things in a seamless way and that’s what’s really impacting the I think the reaction and why we are confident of the pipeline.
In terms of the price point I think it’s a good question.
Look first of all there is a groundbreaking architecture on which this device was built.
The operating system is Linux VeriFone has had 10 years experience with Linux everything that that system is built on is – works through a comprehensive development environment the ADK and it’s supported on the Engage platform.
So if you built your application your payment applications for say an AMEX or VX device you can use them on the Engage device that is a big deal that backward compatibility is really important.
And in terms of the price point and cost what I could tell you is that the margin on these devices is great and it’s great because we have built in the way that is our next generation architecture and that we are able to build variations of it ones that are appropriate for emerging markets ones that are appropriate for developed markets it’s a family of devices this is not just a box.
Got it.
And just a very quick one from my side can you just have – given the Q1 actually guidance that came in a little bit light versus what we were expecting Marc can you just walk us through the consolidated revenue and EPS progression through the course of the year? Well yes.
The revenue progression it’s somewhat similar to last year.
Q1 was our – if you will light point for the year I would expect it to ramp accordingly.
The second half is certainly more significant magnet primarily around our expectation that Latin America is more balanced Latin America is going to be a tough first half for VeriFone.
And the only thing I have guided right now to magnet is the $0.45 to Q1.
I would – I think it will be a – let me say a – Q2 shouldn’t be too far off that number and then I feel comfortable the second half on the $2.15 to $2.17 we will be able to incorporate the second half results to get to the overall guidance and earnings per share.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next we have Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
I just wanted to come back to the international outlook a little bit make sure I have got the numbers straight because it seems like if we start with the North America guide the 5% and then trying essentially back into international for constant currency it seems like it would need to land around 12% or so if my math is right.
And I know you talked about 10-ish EMEA and APAC it doesn’t seem like Lat-Am will be that high co can you just reconcile that for me? Yes.
I think well Lat-Am will be a little bit better then clearly up to a constant currency perspective so that is the delta.
So you should think about I mean it’s right 5% North America so therefore 5% on a reported basis rest of world.
But in terms of the constant currency growth I would expect like I have said 2X in EMEA and Asia-Pac and then the delta to get to the 8% constant currency 9% constant currency is the – is incorporated by our growth in – you can call it Latin America and maybe Canada to some small degree.
So Lat-Am will be north of 10% in constant currency? Jason I don’t have the exact number next to me but it’s certainly the difference between what I mentioned on the EMEA and the Asia-Pac it makes up the delta there.
Guys I think it’s important just to reiterate we are looking at the same economic data that you all are looking at vis-à-vis places like Brazil Argentina anyone who produces oil.
And at a $30 whatever it is $35 $36 oil barrel and with the political turmoil that we are seeing we are just – we are not going to lean into guidance that we can’t get comfortable with.
So I think that it is what it is.
It is a really screwed up environment out there right now.
If you are in the business of selling things that could be postponed by a quarter.
And so that is why you are getting the guidance that we are going to give not because we don’t have complete confidence in the fact that we have got the products people want and the solutions that people want and that there is a hell of a lot of growth around both of those.
If the economy starts these macroeconomic forces start to look even a little bit better.
I think we are going to do a lot better but right now we are guiding to what we see.
Okay.
I have a sub-call Christine and Doug can certainly help reconcile the constant currency guidance that we provided.
And maybe just to follow up on that comment Paul about the macro I mean do you think – has there been any share shift in Brazil recently? No.
I think first of all Brazil is dominated by two acquirers you know that there are some others that are certainly working hard.
Our relationship with those two acquirers having never been better ever and the products that we are showing these two acquirers are products that they want.
And if it wasn’t for the fact that they are in a pretty severe recession I think you would see that that share shift combined with historical growth or even half of the historical growth would have provided for a nice uplift but we are where we are.
They are in a tough pickle.
We have a new General Manager in Brazil who we have hired guy comes from Informatica and SAP.
He is just superb a superb professional building a great team.
The products are the right products.
We will mPOS in that market in a big way and it’s an mPOS set of products that are better than what these guys are buying today from our competitors.
So I am comfortable with the game plan can’t get comfortable with the economy at the moment.
And just the last one for me would you offer any thoughts on kind of once we get past the bulk of U.S.
EMV and when we are in a more kind of normalized macro environment globally what sort of sustainable range or top line growth do you think the company can see over a multi-year period if we just think about that in constant currency terms? I think we have got to look at it from an industry perspective.
I got the color out here now Jason for 2016.
What we have historically said is that we believe that the system solutions side should be mid to high single digits and service capture should be 10% plus.
That’s more of a macro view.
What I can tell you is that I feel pretty good in terms of our own visibility into North America.
I don’t think that 2016 is a cliff year.
I can see visibility across these verticals and then refresh cycles thereafter that keep that momentum but I would use some of the industry numbers that Paul and I have put out there historically and I look at North America as continuing to keep momentum.
Let me just add I think that’s exactly right Marc.
We see double-digit growth in the long-term for our company.
We have been consistent.
I see three buckets.
One is the devices business solutions Terminal Solutions business.
That as I think I have said that revenue pool globally is $4 billion and it’s growing.
The universe of devices that we have out there has grown substantially.
It’s now up $29 million.
When I started here it was closer to $26 million.
The bigger your universe the more you are going to have opportunity to upgrade those devices.
Those upgrades historically have been because of regulations ECI EMV.
Most recently those two are absolutely pushing forward.
I mean you are seeing Japan and Korea go to EMV.
PCI given the security environment is more active than ever.
And also you have fiscalization.
Let’s not forget that all of these countries especially the ones that are having trouble collecting taxes use fiscalization as a means for gaining revenue.
We are seeing it in Turkey.
We are seeing it in other parts of the world.
All of that translates into more device sales okay? The next generation terminals like Engage they are going to drive growth where people are upgrading the device not just for regulation not just for security but now because they want the device because it helps them to sell more stuff helps them to have a better relationship with their consumers which is where we get into the second and third buckets one being payment-as-a-service.
We think that’s a $10 billion market.
We expanded our footprint from 13 to 17 countries in fiscal year ‘15 and we are growing to 21 in FY ‘16.
So the footprint gets bigger.
The services are allowing us to go after more of that $10 billion pie and then obviously the commerce enablement market which is we believe at least $100 billion and that’s all around the services that we demoed at Money 2020.
So we see this as double-digits.
We see as the long-term.
We are getting out of the technical debt that we are in.
And now it’s really based on how good our products are and how good we are at servicing our clients and I feel very good about those two things.
Thank you.
Michael we have time for one more question please.
Yes sir.
The question will come from Gil Luria of Wedbush Securities.
Yes thank you very much for taking my question.
In the U.S.
as you have gone through the first year of the EMV cycle one of the claims out there is that as existing small business that already accept cards went to EMV there was a tossup decision for them whether or not to continue with the same provider switch to audio jack based acceptance let’s call it that.
Have you seen in the first year of EMV a share loss as all these small businesses have had to make a decision about their existing acceptance? Not at all I mean not even a little bit.
So we have not lost business.
We haven’t seen that.
I think that very small merchants have been presented with opportunities from their acquirer from their bank and from folks like Square and others.
And as we have said we see growth in SMB.
I think what’s really happening is you are having a market expansion which is great.
More merchants are able to accept cards which is really what I talked about as the second macro trend that we are seeing which is the shift from electronic – from paper to electronic or cash electronic payments is accelerating.
That we are seeing.
And it is possible that the audio jack providers are capturing a share of that but well I will tell you we are seeing our business really grow.
And then in terms of your acquisition InterCard and Curb InterCard is it a payment-as-a-service like the Point? Is that the business model? How big is it just to – in an order of magnitude? And then Curb is that an advertising model or also a per transaction model? Man thank you for asking that.
I thought no one would ever ask that.
So let me start with Curb because we have closed that acquisition.
We got two things from Curb that I think are very important.
Curb has a network of taxis out there where they accept card-based payments okay.
That means this is very similar to what VeriFone taxis are but they earn 60 things.
So we were able to acquire that network.
I think that for card payment acceptance we are talking about something around I believe it’s 15 000 or so taxis but then they also have an e-hailing application which consumers really like and our taxi fleet owners that we service all around the country given the pressure that they are seeing from people like Uber and others really want to have a best-in-class e-hailing solution.
So we get to deliver that.
And their e-hailing solution today does about maybe fine with ours as I said about 90 000 e-hailing rides a month.
So that gives us a full fleet or a full product suite to be able to deliver to the taxi businesses in the U.S.
and around the globe.
So we will be at 70 000 taxis with – as we close Curb.
Okay.
So that’s Curb.
That’s taxis.
It’s a – it was something that we purchased because we did the build versus buy and it was cheaper to buy than to build it ourselves very simple.
It’s a great capability it’s a great group for people couldn’t be happier that they are part of the VeriFone family.
InterCard is a completely different thing.
InterCard is a payment-as-a-service provider exactly as you said it is similar to Point.
They have about 75 000 or so connected terminals.
They provide for switching payment switching in the local German schemes which is you probably know that in Germany it’s mostly debit transactions they are not credit card transactions.
They focus on Tier 1 and Tier 2 merchants.
They get paid per transaction.
It’s a great company owned by a family that built it from nothing a father and his three sons and we are just really excited to get to closing with them.
I think it’s going to allow us to be a great pan-European provider.
We have had this as a hole in our service offering.
We have not been able to do as much as we want to do for European merchants without having this capability in Germany.
Building it ourselves would have taken too long and cost too much money.
We are very happy that they agreed to partner with us and be acquired.
Great thank you very much.
Okay.
Well with that I would just like to thank everybody for your time today.
We look forward to speaking with you following this call and talking to you on future earnings calls.
Thank you very much.
And if I don’t speak to you happy holidays.
And to you also sir and we thank you and to the rest of the management team for your time also.
Today’s conference call is now concluded.
Again we thank you all for attending today’s presentation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you again and have a great day.