Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Pioneer Drilling’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Anne Pearson of DRG&amp;L Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke and to CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and is accessible by webcast by going to the Investor Relations’ section of Pioneer’s website and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both of them in this morning’s news release.
As a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 21 2012 so any time sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
On this call this morning management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
Although they believe the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable they can give no assurance they will prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are described in this morning’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materializes or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s news release.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer’s President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
Joining me on the call here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services division; and Joe Eustace President of our Production Services division; and Lorne Phillips Chief Financial Officer.
We have completed another solid quarter for Pioneer.
Both revenue and EBITDA was up another 8% that is eight quarters now of steady revenue and EBITDA growth derived by a combination of unit growth and pricing.
For Pioneer because of the way we have positioned ourselves we think this trend continues for at least another eight quarters and sets us up to be able to reduce a substantial amount of our indebtedness in 2014.
Let me explain this in a little bit more detail by reviewing our unit growth starting with production services.
For our wireline business at the end of 2011 we ended the year with 105 units.
That’s up 25% on the year which that year was up 33% on the prior year.
So we have had very very significant unit growth in our wireline units mostly in case hole and mostly targeted to the horizontal shale plays.
Today we are at a 107 units so we are up an additional two units with 12 more wireline units on order.
So as of what's been ordered to date sometimes by the summer late summer we should be a 119 wireline units.
Looking at well servicing at the end of 2011 we had 89 rigs that was up 20% for the year.
Today we are at 91 units up an additional two units with 11 more workover rigs on order.
Mind you these are all like the rest of our fleet all 550 and 600 horsepower top of the line well service units.
Now let me digress just a bit to talk about our new business line.
On 12/31/11 we completed the acquisition of Go-Coil.
Strategically coiled tubing has been in our sides for a couple of years and we feel that it is a must have business line in our production services businesses.
Coiled tubing has very similar characteristics to our wireline which is high margin and low cost per units and offers excellent cross-selling with our other existing production services businesses well service and wireline.
These are the core businesses along with drilling that we have wanted to be in to provide to comprehensive onsite services to our horizontal customers.
So Pioneer can now drill the original horizontal borehole.
We can perforate that horizontal leg with our case hole wireline units.
We can drill out all the plugs between the frac zones with our coiled tubing units and we can run tubing in a established production for the operator with our well servicing rigs.
Granted all of those services do a lot more than just that but it’s pretty much a soups to nuts from the original borehole to putting the well on production.
And just as importantly we can provide maintenance and workover services with all of these business lines for the life of the borehole which is many many years into the future.
The obviously onsite services that is missing from our portfolio of businesses is pressure pumping.
Our view on pressure pumping has been that it is another very capital intensive business much like drilling and it doesn’t offer the same contract protection in the form of long-term take or pay contracts.
So we felt like we already had one capital intensive business we didn’t necessarily need another and we certainly didn’t want it for us at least without having the same protections that we have on the drilling rig side.
So that’s one business that would be another obviously fit to our onsite services.
Now back to why we see eight more quarters or more of revenue an EBITDA growth.
Coiled tubing ended the year 2011 with ten coiled units.
Three offshore and seven onshore.
We have three additional units now on order an additional offshore unit and two units for this year.
Therefore production services the run rate and growth for 2012 is from units added throughout 2011 and units added in 2012.
And 2013 unit growth in revenue and EBITDA is from units added in 2012.
At the present time pricing continues to be firm with an upward bias just like it was in the 2011 and we foresee that that trend will continue.
Turning now to drilling.
At the end of 2011 we completed the year with 64 drilling rigs.
Recall that we sold six in auction and we retired one a seventh rig.
At the present time we have ten newly built rigs under construction eight of which are 1500 horsepower two are 1000 horsepower all are pad drilling true walking rigs that will be delivered throughout the year.
Approximately one a month beginning in March or April of this year.
So we will have considerable growth like in production services in EBITDA and revenue from drilling in 2012 and more importantly in 2013.
As we look out to 2013 2014 we do plan to slow our growth in order to begin building cash.
We anticipate modest production service growth but probably in for sizing our newer business leg coiled tubing.
Same at drilling.
All of our rigs are working so we don’t have the same upgrade requirements that we had in 2011 as we repositioned stacked gas rigs into West Texas to drill for oil.
So all that’s basically behind us and the rigs are working.
And I don’t think we are going to have nearly as many newbuilds.
I think the market is going to correct that but even if the market was there I think Pioneer is ready to limit its growth of newbuilds to no more than two three four newbuilds for 2013 if the opportunity arises in order to start building cash for the company.
We think that it is going to be a little bit taller order as we go forward just due to the gas rig count having come down in certain markets and being relocated to the more oil and liquid rich markets.
In 2014 we want to be in a position to materially reduce our indebtedness at least 50% or more.
We feel that our debt has served us well.
It’s allowed us to build the necessary critical mass at the right time and in the right business lines and allowed us to position in the shales in horizontal plays across the U.S.
and down in Columbia.
These are the plays that we have wanted to be in.
We are there.
With the critical mass that we now have and the quality of our assets and service and safety we have the flexibility to move where we can to perform at the very best for the company.
Let me turn now to Lorne to go over our financial review.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
Before I go into the numbers I will just make a quick comment about we had mentioned in the past that we were looking at another transaction related to the production services business that was quite a bit smaller than the coiled tubing.
And at this time we have chosen to pass on that given some of the changes in the market.
Particularly on the dry gas side we felt that it was prudent to not proceed with that transaction.
So that deal is currently off the table.
So I will go now into the numbers.
This morning we reported fourth quarter net income of $6.8 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
That compared to net earnings of $6.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
And it also compares to a net loss of $6 million or $0.11 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter results included two items which are not expected to continue.
The first item is a $590 000 pre-tax expense primarily to the acquisition cost for Go-Coil which we purchased on December 31.
A small portion of that expense related to the additional acquisition I just mentioned that in the end we decided to pass on.
The second item is additional income tax expense in Columbia of $605 000 relating to a non-deductible operating expense.
This increased our tax rate in the fourth quarter which I will come back to in a moment.
Looking at the top line our consolidated revenues in the fourth quarter totaled $203.7 million which was up approximately 9% from the prior quarter and up about 37% from a year ago.
Total adjusted EBITDA in the latest quarter was $55.5 million which is almost 8% higher than the previous quarter and 47% higher than a year ago.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was reduced by the $590 000 of acquisition expenses I referenced a minute ago.
Drilling services revenue totaled $118.9 million which is a 9% increase over the prior quarter.
Our drilling operation in Columbia accounted for just over $28 million of that total which was flat with the third quarter.
And turnkey revenues contributed an additional $2.2 million.
Gross margin for drilling services was $39.4 million which was up almost 9% from the third quarter.
Average margin per day was 7686 was about 110 a day lower when compared to the third quarter.
This reflects the increased activity in West Texas where the margin per day is lower than in other areas where we work.
Our fourth quarter drilling services utilization was 87% versus 79% one quarter earlier on a apples to apples basis.
Meaning if you excluded the seven rigs we retired at the end of September from the third quarter.
Currently 80% of our working drilling rigs are operating under term contracts.
This is excluding the newbuild rigs that are not yet deployed.
The average remaining term on these contracts is approximately 6 months in the U.S.
and 7 months division wide.
Six of our eight Columbia rigs are working on contract and we are marketing the other two to various operators in Columbia.
Approximately 87% of our drilling rigs are targeting oil or liquid rich gas plays.
Turning now to production services.
We generated $84.8 million of revenue which represents a 7.5% increase from the third quarter.
Of that increase approximately 42% is estimated to be driven by unit growth.
Production services margin was $35.8 million which was up almost 4% from the third quarter.
And for the fourth quarter PPS represented 42% of combined revenues and 48% of our consolidated gross margin.
Production services gross margin percentage was 42.2% down from 43.7% in the third quarter.
The decrease quarter-over-quarter was driven by slightly lower utilization as well as increased cost partially offset by pricing increases.
Driven by typical seasonality our well servicing utilization was 86% in the fourth quarter compared to 92% in the third.
The average hourly revenue rate for well servicing increased to 577 a 4% increase from the prior quarter.
I should also note that the first quarter tends to be our slowest quarter of the year across our production services business lines.
Stacy will provide guidance on revenues and margins in Q1 for PPS later on the call.
For production services approximately 79% of the assets are targeting oil or liquid rich gas plays.
Looking next at overall expense trends for the company.
SG&amp;A expenses were $19.2 million which was up 8.6% from the prior quarter and exceeded our November fourth quarter guidance of $18 million to $18.4 million.
The delta from the guidance is related to the acquisition related expenses I mentioned earlier as well as increased accruals for incentive related compensation.
Including the coiled tubing acquisition first quarter SG&amp;A is estimated to be in the range of $18.5 million to $20.5 million.
And our initial view for the year is roughly $80 million to $84 million of SG&amp;A.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $35.2 million in the fourth quarter.
For Q1 of 2012 we expect D&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $37 million to $70 million.
And our initial D&amp;A guidance for the full year is in the range of $160 million to $170 million.
Interest expense in the fourth quarter was $8.1 million which was approximately $1.9 million higher than the prior quarter.
This increase primarily relates to the $175 million of bonds we issued in mid-November the majority of which was used to fund the Go-Coil acquisition.
Offsetting this cost was the capitalization of about $1 million of interest expense related to the construction of equipment.
Without any capitalized interest in 2012 our estimated interest expense would be in the $46 million to $48 million range with approximately $3 million of that cost is non-cash.
Based on our current outlook we expect to capitalize approximately $6.5 million to $8.5 million of interest in calendar 2012 with the first quarter estimated to be in the $2 million range.
The tax rate for the fourth quarter was 44.5% which was impacted by the $605 000 Columbian tax charge.
Excluding the impact of gains or losses from foreign currency translation our normal tax rate going forward should be in the 38% to 40% range.
At December 31 we had cash and cash equivalents of $86.2 million.
We currently have 0 balance on our revolving credit facility with the exception of $9 million in committed letters of credit.
This leave us with borrowing availability of $241 million on our revolver.
We expect to begin drawing on the revolver as we experience greater spending related to the drilling newbuilds.
During the year depending on timing and the actual commitments that we make we estimate that our revolver balance could be in the $40 million to $60 million range at its peak.
During the fourth quarter we had capital expenditures of $69.5 million which included $12.
4 million for routine CapEx.
For the full year 2011 we invested a total of $210.1 million in CapEx.
And of that amount $43.4 million was for routine expenditure.
For 2012 we currently expect to spend $300 million to $330 million of Capital expenditure.
That includes $50 million to $60 million of routine expenditures the balance on the ten new drilling rigs and the additional wireline well servicing coiled tubing units that Stacy mentioned earlier.
The increase in guidance from our prior guidance on CapEx is predominantly related to increases in production services CapEx with the majority of that being in coiled tubing.
With that I will turn it back to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
When you look around the country at our various markets I would say almost all of them continue to be very very strong.
You look in the Bakken we are at 100% utilization there in drilling.
All the other business lines are doing very well.
You look at in Utah same 100% utilization our wireline operation there is strong.
And in West Texas 100% utilization.
Our well servicing business there is strong as well.
In the Eagle Ford where we do have some of our South Texas not in the Eagle Ford the shallower capacity mobile rigs we have essentially 100% utilization.
We actually have one down today but they go up and down and they are drilling gas.
But they stay substantially busy all year so I am going to refer to that as a fully utilized fleet as well in South Texas.
And all our business lines in South Texas which would include well service wireline and coiled are all doing very well there.
And then down in Columbia we have eight rigs there six of which are continuing under term contract.
And our two 1000-1200 horsepower capacity rigs are presently down.
Although the market continues to be strong it’s oil we see a bright future there.
We have got those two rigs down.
They are down marketed to a number of different customers so we are confident that they will go back to work here hopefully by the end of this quarter or the beginning of the next quarter.
So overall the Columbia market looks good.
It’s just some temporary weakness there for us.
So that leaves really two markets that I haven’t discussed and that’s East Texas which continues to be very very weak.
We have only four rigs there remaining today.
One of which is working.
And it continues to be a weak market.
We have taken two additional rigs from East Texas and moved them into our Houston yard for preparation to move to West Texas.
One of those is already under contract a one year term and will be moving out next month to begin it’s one year term.
And the other rig we are continuing to market.
So and then we have -- actually in the Marcellus that is choppy market.
We have had rigs down there.
Today we have five rigs working but earlier in the month we had some activity there down.
And our wireline business had been soft there and we have recently exited that business in the Marcellus.
So Marcellus is probably going to remain weak as gas prices remain weak.
We have taken two rigs from that market.
One we moved across the country to go to work in Utah.
The other we are operating out of our West Texas division in the Granite Wash.
And more than likely we will move additional rigs through the course of this year away from the Marcellus.
And hopefully we will get the second rig in Houston being ready for West Texas under contract sometime over the next 60 days.
All that being said all the liquids oil rich markets are very very strong.
Dry gas are weak which is no surprise.
And we still have quite a bit of activity on the production service front even in the dry gas markets.
But the vast majority of our activity as Lorne has explained is not in dry gas.
So with respect to the first quarter guidance.
Our drilling utilization today is 88% we averaged 87% in the first quarter.
We are actually going to guide lower at 83% to 85% as we know we have had a little softness earlier in the month of February and we are anticipating additional softness in these gas markets.
That may prove to be a little conservative but it does illustrate the risk out there for gas rigs.
In addition we are going to guide the margin down $300 to $600 a day.
That has nothing to do with day rates it is solely about a greater number of the total rigs working -- coming from West Texas which are operating at a lower day rate.
And thus lower margins.
So as more rigs average in to the total it brings your average margin down.
In addition as you have these dry gas rigs go down hopefully very temporarily to get them ready to move to other markets you have stack-out cost.
So we are absorbing some of those cost in that decline in margin as well.
So it’s very little or nothing to do with day rates.
Day rates continue to be firm in all the other markets if not improving.
And as we mentioned before we think in the second and third quarter in particular we are going to have day rate opportunities as we reprice in West Texas and in other markets.
So we continue to see day rates at a minimum to be firm.
Switching over to the production services side of the business.
Revenues we’re forecasting to be up pretty significantly at 20% to 27%.
The bulk of that will be contribution from our coiled tubing business but not all of it.
We do project some modest revenue growth from the legacy business.
And we project margins to be flat for the quarter which is better than we would normally guide for what is seasonally the lowest quarter.
So we are pleased with how we see our legacy businesses performing in the quarter and we think that the coiled tubing is going to assist in this first quarter as well.
Weather overall has been a little more favorable than last year and we are seeing that in our results for the quarter.
So we are pretty optimistic on all of these businesses.
I might mention that in the drilling I think as we have got it over the last couple of quarters that we would always forecast that the first quarter of ’12 would probably be the turning point in margin.
And I think that going forward from there you will see average drilling margins improve each quarter thereafter as we reprice West Texas and layer in our newbuilds into the quarter.
So I think we will conclude our remarks and be happy to entertain any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mr.
Brian Uhlmer with Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead sir.
Yeah I just wanted to follow-up a little bit more on Columbia and kind of our outlook there.
With a couple of rigs down you say that you’ll hopefully get them re-signed up by this quarter or early next quarter.
What’s kind of hold-up there and what’s the pricing environment look like down there.
And how do you look at that throughout -- maybe over the next two year period how do you look at that market down there as developing? Good questions.
Well the situation that we are in right now I would say is in part due to some unfortunate timing.
We really didn’t expect to have both these rigs down.
At this point we had one -- we had one of these rigs that had a number of option wells at the option of the customer and we were under the impression they were going to continue their drilling.
And they changed their mind in December which in Columbia isn’t a good time to have that type of decision.
Because not a lot happens really for -- I would say you could almost extend it for December January.
People are vacationing during the holidays and it’s tough to get a lot of work done.
So we had these rigs both come available during that period.
And now that we are out of the holiday period we are aggressively bidding these to other customers including (inaudible) drill.
And we are optimistic that we are going to get them back to work and we think the day rate environment is improving there and so we are confident we are going to get them back to work.
And more than likely they will go back to work at a higher day rate.
So we have some good things going on there in that market.
And we intend to stay there and keep doing what we are doing.
Thanks.
Completely unrelated follow-up.
When you talk about you get another short coiled tubing unit on order.
When we look at the offshore market is there any other services or any kind of plethora of other stuff that you do on land that potentially you want to take to that and commit capital towards the offshore.
Can you just kind of talk about the decision to grow the offshore coiled activity and anything that goes along with that.
Well we were already in the case hole offshore market.
And we have four skid units for case hole and we are considering a couple of additional units for that market.
But we entered that market at exactly the wrong time.
It was I think months before the big spill.
And so it’s been a pretty soft beginning for our case hole there.
Now that we have purchased the Go-Coil group we have already moved one of those case hole unites immediately to work for the same customer as the coiled unit is working.
So there as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the synergies and cross-selling opportunities it’s all the same customers different relationships.
And I think we will see a lot of cross-selling opportunities between those two offshore businesses.
Okay.
And if I could sneak in quick third one.
What is your kind of your goal on reducing debt in terms of debt-to-cap debt-to-EBITDA what are you talking there when you are talking about drilling gas and paying down debt in 2014? Just so we can try and model out what you are planning on? Well I think for modeling purposes our goal would be -- as I mentioned in my remarks -- that we would reduce at least 50% of that debt in 2014.
Was that fair Lorne? And the targets on it? Just to hit some level of debt-to-cap or debt-to-EBITDA Lorne or...? I think it’s -- well we have always talked about debt-to-EBITDA two times or less.
Obviously reducing the debt by 50% would take it.
We are already -- we will be at two times or less in the next quarter or two.
So it’s more just the absolute dollar amount.
I think on a long-term basis we have also said we felt like out debt-to-cap would be more appropriate in the 20% range.
Maybe a little higher maybe a little lower but that’s something that just takes time.
And so from our perspective we just think those bonds are callable in early 2014 and as accumulate some cash and expect that our revolver is low or under on that you can take out the bonds and do in such a way where you end up with a net result where your debt is down significantly.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
I just want to follow-up on Brian’s question.
What would lead you to reevaluate the debt reduction strategy? And should we assume that acquisitions are off the table might have been subjective.
Well we never stop looking at things that we will continue to look at opportunities.
But I would say that if were to look at more stop -- for stop type opportunities that would be more consistent with our goal.
But we are what I would say is the big use of cash for us are newbuild rigs.
If the market was out there where we could build 10 12 15 more newbuilds we would not do that because we have got a nice critical in our core businesses.
And that’s the area we need to cut along with some of the other businesses.
We need to cut the capital expenditures to build the cash.
So we are -- that is our strategic plan and I don’t think we are going to alter it.
Just going to have to reduce capital expenditures.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Stacy you mentioned that we will see gains in cash margins after Q1.
Can you provide some sort of framework in term of the magnitude that you would expect later this year? Well it’s basically the same story that we have been talking about throughout 2011.
We as a production service company for instance in ’08 we were at roughly at 50% margin.
We were I think our highest quarter so far we have been about 45% or 44% margin.
And so if this market continues the way it’s going in these oil and liquid rich areas we think that margin has a chance to improve.
Pricing has gone up but so have costs.
But we do feel like that the trajectory is for margin improvement.
It could gradually get up to ’08 levels by the end of the year it’s hard to say.
I was actually referring to the drilling side.
Okay.
I am sorry.
But thank you for that answer because I was probably going to go there anyway.
Well on the drilling side the average margins for Pioneer assuming everything else is constant is going up due to the ten newbuilds coming in.
And so they will be impacting second third and fourth quarter this year and then we will get the full impact in 20/13.
But in addition to that we have now 16 rigs out in West Texas.
A number of those were signed on one-year term contracts.
A fair number of them start coming due here.
We have had a number of them come due and I would say almost without exception we have rolled them at a higher day rate on the order of $1000 a day or more.
And we say that trend continuing and we will be renewing those contracts in the second and third and fourth quarter of this year.
So that will be a help.
And then in the other shale play markets it’s going to be -- we are just going to have to see.
I don’t think you are going to see pricing go down.
And the reason I say that because the rigs that are being dislocated out of the gas markets.
You have some competition risk there but I don’t think we are going to see pricing do down and we are seeing day rates remain firm today.
So I would call that market which has been going up slightly in rate probably to be flattish to firm.
It’s just hard to say how many of these rigs are going to be dislocated and where they are going to go out of the gas markets.
All right.
Last one’s for now....
Did I answer that? Sort of.
Not really.
I mean I am just trying to guess -- I mean I know they are going to migrate higher right because of the newbuilds and the repricing I just don’t know if it could get you to quantify where you thought that might potentially be by later this year.
I mean do cash margins break the $8000 level overall or do they sort of migrate to the high sevens? Yeah I thank that -- I see where you are heading.
You want a real specific modeling type answer.
You got it.
Yes I do think you (inaudible) by the end of the end of the year.
Absolutely.
It’s probably third fourth quarter type.
Yeah.
And beyond.
Fair enough.
My last one.
I got confused which is not surprising but on your prepared comments you talked about pressure pumping.
Were you suggesting that that’s a business you are interested in or not interested in? Well I was suggesting that it’s a business that we are not interested in at the present time because it’s too much like drilling in that it is a very capital intensive business.
We already have one of those.
And the other downside of pressure pumping as compared to drilling is in drilling you can get multi-year take or pay contracts.
So you truly have some protection on the cost of that newbuild that you don’t have in pressure pumping.
So for these reasons we would rather stick with the business we know well and like with the take or pay term contract protection.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead sir.
Just kind of wanted to get your thoughts Stacy I think I know directionally where this is going but you had talked about getting the 90% plus utilization kind in the first quarter.
Is that still a target? Obviously it’s been pushed out a little bit but do you think that that’s in the cards for -- at some point may be middle of this year? I just kind of get your thoughts on how the fleet utilization progresses? Yeah.
Well we’re like I said today we are at 88% utilization.
We have got a rig in Houston we know is going back to work.
We have got two rigs down in Columbia that we think are going back to work.
We have got one rig in South Texas that we also know is going back to work.
And we have another rig in Houston that we’re optimistic about putting back to work in the West Texas.
We’re putting to work in West Texas.
So to answer your question.
Yes we do think that we will be north of 90% of utilization the majority of this year.
The caveat for guiding in this first quarter is the rigs that are presently down in Columbia and rigs that have been down and probably will go down in the Marcellus.
When those things go down you have got costs associated with them and it takes time to get them relocated.
So we are having some good conversations about other markets that we can take.
One or two more rigs out of the Marcellus to other spots in the U.S.
And we are going to take advantage of that opportunity.
Now if conversely they all still busy there in the Marcellus then we are probably being overly cautious on our first quarter guidance.
But that market is just uncertain.
We don’t have as much long term protection there as we used to have.
And we do not plan to exit the market.
We have -- we hopefully will leave one two three or four of our existing rigs there because we do have two newbuilds going into that market.
But it is a risk for us.
And the only market that we don’t have much optimism on is East Texas.
We have been generally running one two or three rigs working there throughout 20/11.
And today we have one and so we just don’t know.
We just don’t know what will happen in that market.
And we are evaluating some more rigs there to either relocate them or whatever.
So we will keep you apprised.
But to answer your question we do think the utilization will get back up to 90% and stay there the majority of 20/11 based on what we know today.
Got it.
And then also I just kind of hope you could qualitatively kind of elaborate on your comment about production services pricing being firm with an upward bias.
Maybe kind of regionally or across service lines it’s not as easy as thinking about that as just the well servicing business anymore I guess.
So just across the different service lines within that segment as well as different geographies in the country.
Well if you look at our well servicing business I would say and I don’t have it in front of me but I would say that for probably the last eight quarters there again that we had our hourly rate trend upward.
And most of those quarter improvements have had margin improvement as well for PPS in total.
So I think that pricing on average maybe not in every single quarter like this quarter this just ended I would say pricing on average is slightly staying ahead of cost.
And over the trend you are getting margin improvement.
I think that’s going to continue.
We don’t see anything out there right now other than soft gas prices that could derail that but based on the activities we are seeing today levels we are seeing today with low gas prices we are not seeing it.
So I think margins we expect for PPS as a whole and well service pricing hourly rate pricing to go up through the course of this year.
Joe you have anything else? No I would concur.
This first quarter starting out well.
Our first quarter is surprisingly robust.
And I think a lot of that has to do with weather being much better in certain markets.
Now you’re talking about pricing or utilizations or both? Both.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the pressure pumping question I was pretty clear that you are not interested right now.
But just wanted to summarize if I could.
That you do see it as a business that makes some sense industrially or in terms of being a fit with what you do.
But you wouldn’t be doing it anytime soon for the reasons you have talked about.
The capital intensity and the contract start sharing and things like that.
Correct.
Yeah we are out there with our case hole wireline at the same time the pressure pumpers are there.
So it would make sense to have both businesses.
But when we are growing we can't do everything with our limited balance sheet.
And we have chosen to grow drilling significantly that it’s a lot per rig.
We just didn’t -- we would have to give up some of that growth if we were in pressure pumping.
And we don’t have the same three four year term contract protection that we have in drilling for the pressure pumping growth.
So it just for us we can't do it all let’s stick to one business that we like and know and get the protection on.
It’s not anything bad against pressure pumping.
It would be a fit.
Absolutely would be a fit for our business.
There may be a time in the future when we are less levered and cash flowing tremendously where we would look into it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just wanted to clarify that.
And then in terms of slowing down the growth profile generating a little more cash as you get into next year.
What -- to change that outlook -- since it certainly doesn’t look like gas prices are going anywhere anytime soon but if for some reason they did rebound in some of these gas markets began to come back and you felt like they were sustainable.
Is that something that could change your outlook or just trying to get a sense for what if anything could? Well it’s a good question.
I think right now we are pretty dead set on that being a strategic goal for us.
I would say nothing -- we don’t ever put blinders on but that’s an important strategic goal for us much like getting into the coiled tubing business was for the last couple of years.
We are just looking out couple of years out when we see that opportunity with this market.
If gas came back stronger it would give us a chance to take out even more debt because all our pricing would be up and we would be cash flowing more and sooner.
So we don’t think that’s happening.
We think it’s a pretty good -- I think our timing just worked out that we were able to seize the opportunity when it was there on the drilling newbuilds.
And we did that with debt and now we can harvest the cash off that growth and take that debt down.
So that’s really the plan.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Question on the CapEx spend for this year.
$300 million and $330 million I think Lorne you said maybe $50 million or $60 million is routine.
Can you split the reminder? I know we can get pretty close but can you split the remainder of the growth capital between drilling and production services? Well the biggest piece of that is the remainder of the newbuilds.
I would say that’s probably -- it’s probably in the range of $170 million to $180 million that we would right checks for this year on the drilling newbuilds.
And then there is probably -- you know I would say probably $10 million to $20 million other related to drilling that could happen may happen but not necessarily for sure committed to.
And the rest is really is all production services split between coiled tubing wireline and well service.
Okay.
And I guess what I wanted to ask was then as you contemplate beginning debt pay down in ’12 and ’13.
Does that imply that you slow the rate of capital investment on the production services of the business or simply that the newbuild rig side goes away? Probably more the latter.
I mean we may slow down depending on the business.
I think that will be more of a market based on call.
Because as Stacy said if the newbuilds requirements were to go away you generate a lot of cash flow and you could still grow your production services businesses and accumulate cash to help you pay down debt.
So I think it will be more based on specific markets.
I would say right now we probably would expect that coiled tubing as Stacy said we would emphasize that.
Going forward I think well servicing also has very -- they all have very promising prospects but I would probably say coiled tubing well servicing are near the top and then wireline is very good business as well but it’s one where we will just kind of monitor and see how aggressively we grow it.
Okay.
And then just one other one.
Guiding production services margin flat here Q4 to Q1.
I would assume that Go-Coil is actually helping support margins and offset what would otherwise be the seasonality you would see from the underlying production services businesses.
Is that the way to think about it? That is fair.
That business is accretive to our gross margin on the production services line when you average it in.
So I think that is a fair way to look at it.
Even when weather is good you still have the impact of fewer daylight hours.
Even though as Joe and Stacy said that market has been quite strong here in the first quarter you still have that impact of the daylight hours even when weather is cooperative.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Lenny Bianco with Raymond James.
Please go ahead sir.
Quick follow-up on the CT side.
Three units on order two onshore one offshore.
Will the contribution for those be more of 20/13 even or maybe should we be thinking 4Q ‘12.
It will mostly be 2013 I mean they will be delivered probably early fourth quarter that we -- I suppose there is a chance that we might be able to pull them in earlier.
But what we are planning on now is in the fourth quarter probably early in the four.
So there will be some benefit then but then you get the full year in 2013.
Great.
And beyond these additions obviously overall CapEx you put more of its emphasis on the CT side.
Will those be two inch units maybe two and three eighths inch? Can you give us a sense of what you are seeing demand for out there? Right now the offshore unit is smaller.
That’s more of a one and a quarter to one-half inch.
That’s just more a maintenance work offshore.
Almost primarily maintenance work.
Onshore we are really right now these units will be two inch units.
We just feel like there is a good demand at that level and it’s a good return for that sized unit.
It can't do everything but it can do the vast majority of what you need.
And so we think that that’s a pretty good area.
We are evaluating the two and three eights and certainly talk to customers about that all the time.
Wouldn’t rule it out.
But these we would expect to be two inch.
Great.
Thanks.
And one more.
So would we be thinking maybe in the three to five additions for 13 units on the CT side that is.
Or maybe kind of down or back one to three kind of dependent on where the market goes.
Any kind of preliminary thinking? I think that we will probably evaluate the course of the first half of this year.
Some additional orders of coiled units and I am pretty confident we will order at least another three to five units before this calendar year is over for next year.
So we are just evaluating the markets and where we want to position and we will complete that at some point during the first half of this year.
And then we will probably go and place some orders for deliveries next year.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the conference over to management closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for participating on this morning’s call and we look forward to visiting next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the Pioneer Drilling’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.