Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] And it's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Saltiel.
Please go ahead.
Good morning this is Mark Mey speaking.
Welcome to the Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2014.
Together with me today is Rob Saltiel President and CEO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management's current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today's call.
One of the notable highlights from our third quarter was our record quarterly revenue of $293 million.
Our company's top line and our asset base continues to expand as we deliver on our extensive newbuild program.
The Atwood organization has grown accordingly in capability and experience and we have maintained our sharp focus on safety and operational excellence even while expanding our fleet.
Despite industry headwinds these are exciting times for our people in Atwood Oceanics.
Turning now to our third quarter operations.
The story was very similar to that of our second quarter.
We experienced very strong reliability performance from our 2 ultra-deepwater semis 2 deepwater semis and 5 jack-ups that were active in the quarter.
In fact these rigs ramped up their collective revenue efficiency from 96% to 99% from the second quarter to the third quarter.
Our operations and technical teams continue to demonstrate that they provide the best rig reliability in the offshore drilling industry.
However the strong performance of our active fleet was somewhat offset by startup issues on the Atwood Advantage.
On last quarter's call I mentioned that equipment installation and troubleshooting had impacted our operations in April.
In June we identified a separate issue relating to the allocation of electric power on the rig.
Multiple equipment suppliers were involved in the diagnosis and resolution which led us to incur approximately 25 zero rate days.
With this issue behind us we fully expect that we've turned the corner on our operations' reliability for the Atwood Advantage.
For the month of July we have been operating the Advantage at approximately 90% revenue efficiency.
I recently spent 3 days on the Atwood Advantage and I can attest that our offshore crews are working well together and are achieving the Atwood standard of safety and operations excellence in their work.
Our dual BOP system is fully functional as we drill with 1 BOP while simultaneously maintaining and testing the second BOP off the critical path.
Having seen the Atwood Advantage operation up close I am convinced that the capabilities and efficiencies incorporated into our A-class drillship design are best-in-class.
Our second drillship the Atwood Achiever is nearing construction completion at the DSME shipyards in South Korea.
Barring any adverse developments we have improved our confidence level that the Achiever will be delivered before the end of August.
Because of the lessons learned from the Advantage and the improved equipment delivery and commissioning by the major suppliers the Achiever will depart the shipyard ready to drill.
The Achiever's offshore team is now in final preparations for departure from the shipyard.
Once delivered the Atwood Achiever will begin its transit to Morocco for its first well.
This voyage is expected to last approximately 80 days which includes stops for refueling and loading of equipment and inventory in Singapore.
The transit time provides additional opportunity for our offshore crews to gel as an operating team and to ensure that the Atwood safety culture is firmly established onboard.
Our operations and technical teams are also very focused on the Atwood Hunter's reactivation in Equatorial Guinea for our drilling program with CNOOC.
The rig looks great after its recent regulatory and maintenance project and the offshore team is assembled for the Hunter's return to operations.
We expect to commence this drilling program around the middle of August.
The rest of the Atwood fleet continues to operate largely as it did in the previous quarter with few changes in clients or geographies.
As a result there should be not any significant changes in our fleet status report when it is issued tomorrow morning.
Shifting now to our market outlook.
I'll start with the floater segment.
Tendering activity for floater work remains slow.
As a result we expect to see an increasing number of floaters idled as we move toward autumn and into 2015.
E&amp;P operators are just not inclined to drill right now and many of the larger operators are planning to reduce rather than increase their rig counts over the next 2 years.
We expect that while demand will be disappointing into 2016 the positive story will likely emerge on the supply side.
We fully expect that many older and less capable floaters will be permanently stacked as a result of the current industry slowdown.
Our competitors are always -- are already making noises to this effect and many of them have a significant number of rigs that are facing contract end dates without visible renewal prospects.
A key catalyst for supply attrition will be the intermediate and major regulatory class surveys that occur every 2.5 and 5 years respectively.
Given the current state of play many older floaters will simply not justify the high degree of maintenance costs and project management effort required for class surveys of rigs that are more than 20 to 25 years old.
In our view the path to a better supply and demand balance in the floater segment has to include the permanent exit of a large number of older rigs from the supply stack.
As far as Atwood floaters are concerned our most immediate need is to secure additional work for the Atwood Hunter when it comes available at the end of the CNOOC program in Equatorial Guinea.
We are targeting a number of opportunities primarily in West Africa and we remain hopeful that we will maintain continuous work to the Hunter into 2015.
The Atwood Admiral our third A-class drillship is still scheduled to be delivered in late March of 2015.
We continue to market the Admiral against a handful of programs that align well with the rig's availability window.
We are preferentially targeting those programs that are likely to make full use of the Admiral's extensive drilling well control and other capabilities.
Since we are in discussions with operators on these opportunities I won't be able to provide any guidance on day rate or term length expectations on today's call.
Shifting now to jack-ups.
This is the third call in a row that I will express caution on the jack-up segment.
There is still pockets of regional strength but the oncoming delivery of uncontracted newbuilds presents a real challenge to the market supply and demand balance.
This is why we see downside risk.
Although our concerns have not manifested themselves yet in many fixtures we believe the competition for future work is likely to increase as the new rigs continue to enter the market.
As for Atwood we are focused on securing a follow-on contract or extension for the Atwood Mako which will reach its contract end date in the next 4 months.
We see a number of suitable opportunities in Southeast Asia that lineup well so we think the rig is likely to remain in this region for its next job.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll pass the call back to Mark who would take us through the numbers.
Thanks Rob.
As I typically do I'll touch on a few third quarter highlights and then compare these results to the previous fiscal quarter.
I will then comment on our financial position and provide updated cost guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2014.
Let's start with fiscal third quarter quarter highlights.
Revenues of $293 million on 910 operating days for the quarter.
These revenues included $28 million in reimbursables diluted earnings per share of $1.11.
Revenues and net income were negatively impacted by the 48 days of zero rate time on Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Hunter not operating for the entire quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter adjusting for the gain on sale of the Vicksburg diluted earnings per share was $0.76.
Revenue efficiency for the fleet totaled 89%.
However if adjusted for the Atwood Advantage of zero rate days discussed above the rest of the fleet achieved an average revenue efficiency rate of over 99%.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $23 million totaled $129 million for the quarter as compared to $137 million for the previous quarter and in line with my prior quarterly guidance.
$137 million for the prior quarter also excluded reimbursable costs.
This decrease in contract drilling cost is mainly due to the completion of the Atwood Hunter's regulatory and maintenance project in April resulting in less repair and maintenance costs.
Note that the reimbursable revenues and costs were unusually high during the quarter.
These reimbursables are related to the completion of the Atwood Advantage's mobilization in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
General and administration expenses totaled $13 million in line with expectations for the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 9% slightly below expectations due to lower quarterly revenue associated with the Atwood Advantage's zero rate days.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $66 million during the quarter in line with prior guidance.
The $66 million consisted mainly of payments for capital spares project management and other related costs for the 3 drillships under construction.
Net debt declined to $1.4 billion at June 30 with our net debt-to-capital ratio also declining from 37% to 36%.
Liquidity defined as cash on hand plus the unused portion of our revolving credit facility totaled $850 million at the end of the quarter.
This reflects the increase in our revolving credit facility to $1.55 billion during the quarter.
Now let's discuss the outlook for our fiscal fourth quarter and the full year 2014.
Firstly as you can determine from our most recent fleet status report we are fully contracted for the remainder of the fiscal 2014 and with approximately 81% and 51% of our fiscal 2015 2016 available days contracted.
Now for updated guidance.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $14 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Regarding contract drilling costs I can reiterate my prior full year 2014 guidance range of $515 million to $525 million with the fiscal fourth quarter ranging between $135 million and $145 million.
These estimates for contract drilling cost excludes reimbursable costs which should approximates $10 million for the fourth quarter and $51 million for the year.
Included in this forecast for the first time are the costs associated with the Atwood Achiever as it commences mobilization to its first location in Morocco at the end of August.
Depreciation should also increase to around $40 million for the fourth quarter reflecting the Atwood Achiever being placed into service and around $148 million for the year.
G&amp;A expense should range between $13 million and $15 million for the fourth quarter and around $62 million for the year.
Interest expense should approximate $12 million net of capitalized interest for the fourth quarter and $43 million for the year.
We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to approximate 10% with our full year effective tax rate approximating 14%.
Capital expenditures should range between $415 million and $425 million in the fourth quarter with the vast majority of those CapEx comprising the final payment of the Atwood Achiever on its delivery in August.
Capital expenditures for the full year 2014 should total around $150 million and those exclude capitalized interest as well.
As most of you are aware our capital expenditure program is fully financed; and as such we will continue to use a mix of existing cash cash flow from operation and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call back to Tiffany for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Klayton Kovac of Tuder Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So first given your concerns on the jack-up market a couple of questions on the Mako.
So first the follow-on work that you're looking at is this with Salamander? And then also are you seeing any pressure on rates for this follow-on work? Yes Klayton we're looking at a number of different opportunities.
Obviously Atwood has done quite well in extending contracts with clients from period-to-period so they're clearly in the mix but we're looking wider as well just as we approach the contract end date.
The comments on the potential risk really relate to the competition for jobs that is taking place out there.
We're seeing a lot more rigs bid on opportunities than we would have seen before.
The balance between opportunities and rigs available is clearly shifting with the increased supply that's coming into the market.
We really haven't seen much in the way of rate changes yet so -- I think the issue that we're really cautious about is just more the supply and demand balance.
Obviously at some point that may work its way into rates; but right now it's more of the competition of rigs for jobs available.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up just given all the market concerns with the floating space are you seeing any high-spec assets competing for jobs down market? Well with the opportunities we're looking at we're not seeing that directly but clearly that's happening in the marketplace.
We're -- as I mentioned we're really focused on the Atwood Admiral in getting work for that as our next ultra-deepwater drillship.
And the opportunities we're really focused on are the ones that require the 6 gen capability that that rig brings.
And with the Atwood Hunter we're looking a lot of different opportunities but we haven't directly seen competition from higher spec rigs but that's naturally going to follow.
When the market weakens and there's a scramble to find work rigs of a higher spec will typically bid lower spec just to maintain utilization.
And we'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob for the drillship market in 2015 I think it's pretty well appreciated that rigs like the Admiral are competing very competitively with a multitude of rigs for a relative dearth of opportunities.
And so not all the rigs are going to get work at least that's my understanding based on the perception of demand today.
Would you say that the ratio of the number of top-end drillships that are bidding on a number of jobs is that sort of status quo over the past 6 months or so? Or have you seen it get more or less competitive than where you saw it at the beginning of the year or late last year? Well I think as we move through '14 and you've got rigs that are coming out this year that don't have contracts clearly I think that's increasing some of the competitive appetite that's out there for the jobs that are available.
The other thing we've seen is we've seen recently some tenders that were out there getting canceled or postponed indefinitely or for a long enough period of time that it might as well be indefinite so I think those kind of things increase the competitive pressure.
I'm not sure that we're seeing a larger number of rigs on any particular job.
But the longer we go without fixtures for some of these uncontracted rigs then the more rigs that are likely to come into the mix for availability for a particular job.
So we're obviously looking to see a pickup in tenders and a pickup in fixtures and thus far we haven't seen that yet.
That said we feel good about where we are with the Admiral okay? It's a difficult market but we've got an outstanding rig.
It's #3 in a series of 4 and we're benefiting from all the lessons learned and experienced from rig 1 and soon to be rig 2.
So we feel good but there's definitely a cool breeze blowing out there.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- your jack-up commentary you've had a sober view there for a few quarters as you've said.
And you've been a little bit early in terms of actually seeing real price weakness at least for your variety of new jack-ups.
The Ensco call that immediately proceeded your call was characterized by a more constructive jack-up outlook than what you've been giving.
Do you see any sort of flaw in your thesis or anywhere where where you could be wrong in terms of calling for some softness? Well the call for softness is really just a note of caution.
We see tremendous growth in supply coming on board that is uncontracted and that's really the risk to the jack-up space.
Now if we get a corresponding pick up in demand that's great.
That's not a problem.
But as I mentioned before if you look at the jobs that we're bidding on and others that we're not we're seeing more and more rigs bidding for each available job and that's a sign of growing competitive pressure in the marketplace.
So we're also saying that we're not seeing a lot of rate erosion yet so that may be some cause for optimism.
And if some of the areas that may be pockets of strength like Middle East Mexico and other areas come through with some more jack-up tenders or visible demand that'll mitigate the effect.
But right now we're still cautious on the space given the growth in supply and we're just not confident that we're going to see a corresponding pickup in demand.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the Admiral recognizing that you're out there marketing the rig and kind of sensitive on rate discussion.
Again given that competitive dynamic and some of the delays and project softness out there is it possible that you'd look for a shorter term initially again just to get it out there working prove up the rig and hopefully get it tied up until that demand recovery occurs presumably according to your timeframe later in '15 or in 2016? Yes Mike the opportunities we're looking at right now have got a fixed term length to them.
It's typically not a variable term length.
The client is looking to drill a particular program whether it's an exploration program or a development program and so they have a timeframe that they have to accommodate.
We're not at the point now where we're negotiating for shorter timeframes because of a concern we have on the rates per se.
Obviously the market has moved down and we keep -- we're well aware of that but we're not in the process of trying to negotiate for a very short-term contract at this point.
We're targeting well-defined programs with fixed term lengths and we're not at the point of doing what you're suggesting.
And we'll take our next question from David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
I appreciate the comments regarding how the floor [ph] of supply needs to evolve via the stacking and retirements of the older mid-water fleet.
But I just wanted to ask if you're seeing any structural changes in the mid-water demand? So basically if mid-water demand remain in place and the mid-water fleets should shrink should we infer that the older conventionally more deepwater fleet should increasingly fill that gap and that could be a structural feature of the market going forward? Yes my comment wasn't really aimed specifically at mid-water fleet and you worded your question around the mid-water fleet.
What we're really saying is that if you look at the entire floater space which is going to be heavily involved with mid-water and deepwater rigs as being older rigs the 20 to 25-year-old rigs it's our view that a number of those are going to exit the market specifically around a special periodic surveys -- regulatory surveys for class satisfaction.
And because those surveys typically involve heavy maintenance costs to stay in class we think those are logical exit points.
There may even be some lower speckle for deepwater rigs some older ones maybe some ones with some checkered operating histories that could exit the market as well during this timeframe.
But we're really talking about the older rigs 20 to 25-years old most of which predate the ultra-deepwater space.
And we'll take your next question from Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask -- there's been some discussion along -- in the past about increasing dividend and the rest.
I realized that some of the lack of visibility in the market changes that or may change -- maybe it doesn't change it.
But I'm just trying to get some clarity kind of where we are now sort of if the downturn in the floater markets let's say were to last beyond '15 is there a different answer to have you see inflection and what happens with the market in '15? And just to kind of get a sense of how you're thinking about that on a go-forward basis maybe with a little bit of an option throughput in there? Mark do you want to take that? Yes.
Darren as you know we have -- I mentioned earlier we have 80-plus percent of our days contracted for next year and also 50% for the -- for 2016.
And given our view currently as to where we stand in marketing some of these new capacity coming on in '15 we feel fairly confident around our forecast with regard to earnings and cash flow growth.
So we're going through the process as we've discussed around evaluating and returning cash to shareholders via dividends or other matters and that process will be completed later this year.
So I don't think the current market weakness plays too much into our view given the fact that you've framed your question around a 2015 2016 timeframe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Now so within that is there still an impetus to want to grow the fleet over time? Or is that a little -- is that logic maybe a little bit more on pause? No Darren.
We're firmly in the camp of believing Atwood as a growth company and we're going to continue to look for growth opportunities that create shareholder value as our first priority.
Obviously in the -- within market we're in today with the uncertainty and a couple of uncontracted newbuild drillships we've been cautious about taking the next step on growth but we're by no means done growing this company.
We think that this management team with the great operations and technical team that we got working our rigs has good opportunity to create value for shareholders.
Now how we do that whether it's building versus buying I think that's something that we'll have to look at as we go forward.
But we are certainly not abandoning our strategy of growth.
That's front and center for our company.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the buy end of the build-versus-buy argument obviously there's been some commentary today around the jack-up market.
Is that -- do you think that there's opportunities there maybe for things that'll hit the market kind of attractively priced from speculators and the rest? I think it's a little too early to tell.
Because as we've been discussing there seems to be some ambivalence about where the market is right now and how quickly it may be moving to a weaker position if at all.
So unless and until you get to a point where it's obvious that not all the rigs are going to find work you're not going to see significant discount to replacement or build cost and -- so we're not there yet.
But if the market were to weaken to that point then you may see some attractive purchase opportunities.
And at that point we'll take a closer look.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could throw 1 more in.
Yes you mentioned rig attrition as well.
What's the -- do you assign any probability that the rig attrition that may happen say over the next 12 months can balance the market a lot faster than maybe capital markets the barely suspect [ph]? I think that the supply attrition is underestimated.
I think a lot of our competitors are only now starting to discuss it openly whereas in the past there's been a lot of talk about maintaining utilization.
And I think as we collectively gain some visibility that this market may stay weaker longer.
There'll be more willingness to enter into those discussions on a more consistent basis that rigs have to exit the supply stack and ultimately be cold stacked so that they're not being actively marketed.
So I think you're starting to hear some of that in this quarter's earnings calls and you'll hear more of it as we go forward.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Mark I don't know if I've asked something similar like this before with regard to debt.
But any thoughts about terming it out especially as you kind of try to get an investment-grade rating? Dave as you know we heavily utilize our revolving credit facility for a good reason.
We look at our earnings and cash flow profile having the flexibility to be able to repay this debt without penalty in the future is something that's very appealing to us.
I think the ability to repay this debt and to reduce our leverage ratios will put us in an excellent position to pursue an investment-grade rating.
So given the cost differential between what we're paying and our floating rate debt what it would cost us to term it out will be more than double.
So we look at this very carefully on a quarterly basis.
We're very sensitive to the increased costs but we also like the flexibility with regard to repaying this in the 2015 2016 and beyond timeframe.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take the next question from Ian Macpherson of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Rob you mentioned the Advantage is up to 90% in July.
What are your targets and your timeframe for getting to your targets there on efficiency? Our targets are 100%.
And if you look at the rest of our fleet and specifically if I could call out the Atwood Condor and the Atwood Osprey those are deepwater rigs that we delivered in 2011 2012 those rigs got 99% revenue efficiency for the entire third quarter.
So we know that near 100% reliability is achievable on our ultra-deepwater rigs.
As I said we went through some startup issues and hiccups on the Atwood Advantage.
We think those are behind us.
And we think July is really the first really solid month of operations we've been able to achieve having gotten through those.
And going forward we're going to shoot for 90-plus percent towards 100%.
So you'll have to stay tuned and our operations and technical teams will have to deliver against that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So plausibly you're not shooting for 100% 6 to 9 months from now you're trying to get there sooner than that? Well we're trying to get there as fast as we can Ian.
And at this time it appears we have no further questions.
Okay.
If there are no further questions we want to thank everybody for joining the third quarter call and we look forward to talking to you on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year '14 call in 3 months' time.
Thank you.
And this concludes your teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.