Greetings and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services third quarter 2014 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) As reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Anne Pearson.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson you may begin.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Pioneer CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available and will be accessible by webcast by going to the IR section of Pioneer’s Web site and also by telephone replay.
You can find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today October 28 2014 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in today’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more were to materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect results may differ materially.
Also please note this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
And you’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Red West President of our Drilling Services segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
Generally the third quarter was another solid quarter for the Company.
Revenues were up 5% EBITDA was roughly flat when adjusted for the one-time time events quarter-over-quarter.
Again record quarters for our wireline business for our well services business and continued nice improvement in our coiled tubing business.
U.S.
drilling was very steady both in terms of utilization and in margin.
Colombia was really the only area of our operations that struggled and this was primarily due to delays in the preparation of drilling pad sites.
And anyway however we think that most of that is behind us.
We should have a little trailing cost of there in this fourth quarter but we are on the right track for the future it looks like.
Diving down a little more deeply into the drilling services segment we have five new-builds under construction.
Two of these will be delivered in the second quarter of 2015.
Two will be delivered in the third quarter and one in the fourth quarter as it sits today.
One will be going to the Eagle Ford one to the Bakken and three to the Permian.
We continue to have ongoing conversations with customers about potentially additional new-builds.
Across the company in drilling we are at 94% utilization which is very very good.
100% utilization in our South Texas division 100% utilized in our West Texas division 100% utilized in the Bakken 100% utilized in Colombia.
And really there is only four rigs down company-wide and those are all 60 series three of which are mechanical 60 series and one is an electric.
Three are stacked in Utah and one in Appalachia in the Marcellus.
If you look at utilization kind of our rig category our AC rigs are 100% utilized our SCR rigs are 96% utilized.
The one rig down there is a 60 series and the mechanical rigs are 87% utilized.
And three mechanical rigs that are down are part of the 360 series.
So all in all doing extremely well on rig utilization.
In Colombia today we have got seven of our rigs working on day work.
We haven't been that high all year.
So far we have had rigs down at various points waiting on locations to be built.
And then we have one rig that is on a fairly long move presently and we just completed a rig move and started day work a couple days ago on a second rig.
So we are in the midst of final negotiations on a renewal of all eight of those rigs that we think will extend these rigs working in Colombia for the same client sometime into 2016.
So we’re going to continue to work on that and feel like we are getting pretty close to having that complete.
Turning now to our production services segment I would say excellent overall.
Revenues were up another 10% a record quarter for the Company.
We were able to sell during this quarter our fishing and rental business which was the smallest segment of the production services segment and one that we felt was non-core to the Company long-term.
So that sale has been completed and we took the proceeds and reduced our indebtedness.
On the well servicing front another record quarter in revenues a back-to-back quarter with utilization at 101%.
We are sitting today at 130 rigs with seven more to be delivered by the end of this year and then we have an order for 16 rigs to be delivered throughout 2015.
In our wireline operation also a record quarter with very good and improved profitability.
We sit at 123 units in our wireline with one more unit to be delivered before the end of the year and we have placed an order for eight more units for delivery throughout 2015.
Coiled tubing operations continue to show steady improvement.
We achieved 57% utilization in this third quarter which was the best so far this year.
We recently signed a favorable one-year term contract in coiled tubing which that is the first one of those we have seen in a long time.
We are presently at 16 units in coiled with 1 2 and 3/8 inch unit a bigger unit arriving in November.
So with that I would like to turn it over to Lorne for some more color on our financials.
Thanks Stacy.
For the quarter we reported consolidated revenues in $273.3 million up 5.2% from the prior quarter.
And adjusted EBITDA of $78.1 million.
If you exclude the $10.7 million pre-tax gain on the sale of fishing and rental assets our EBITDA was $67.4 million.
Our net income for the third quarter was $12.5 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
Adjusted to exclude the benefit of the tax gain fishing and rental net income would have been $6.2 million or $0.09 per.
By comparison our second quarter earnings adjusted to exclude the impact of debt refinancing was $8.9 million or $0.14 per share.
Our drilling revenue increased by approximately $0.6 million compared to the second quarter the increase reflects steady performance in the U.S.
market which was offset by the issues we experienced in Colombia which Stacy just described.
Our combined drilling margin per day was 7 810 which is 1 130 lower than the prior quarter.
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in the drilling margin per day reflects the impact of the downtime in Colombia also combined with the scope-of-work agreement we signed in the second quarter that boosted the second quarter drilling margin by $480 per day.
Revenue from our Colombian operations in the third quarter was $22.9 million.
Currently our overall drilling rig utilization is 94% and on the 62 drilling rigs on our fleet 58 are earning revenues and 44 are under term contracts.
Of the 36 under term contracts in the U.S.
9 are still up for renewal this quarter 14 are up for renewal in the first quarter of 2015 2 in the second quarter of 2015 and 11 expired beyond that point.
All eight of our Colombia rigs are earning revenue and are under term contracts at the end of the year as Stacy described.
We contracted to build 1 500 horsepower AC drilling rigs during the third quarter so we now expect to deliver five new rigs in 2015 all of which are supported by term contracts.
Turning now to production services revenues for this segment increased 9.7% from the prior quarter to $145.2 million which reflects record-level revenue from all three business lines in what is typically a seasonally strong quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenues was up about 20 basis points quarter-on-quarter 37.8%.
And our average rate per hour per well servicing was $661 compared to $648 in the second quarter.
Pricing for other production service business was steady.
During 2014 we made several improvements to our debt structure.
In late September we amended and extended our revolving credit facility increasing capacity by $100 million for a total of $350 million of availability and extended the facility through September 2019.
We also redeemed the remaining $125 million of our 9-7/8% senior notes on October 23 of this month and will be recording $8.8 million pre-tax charge related to that transaction in the fourth quarter.
This redemption was funded by borrowings on the revolver and cash on hand.
As of today the revolver balance is $160 million.
At the beginning of the year we have redeemed a total of $425 million of the 9-7/8% senior notes using proceeds from the new 6-1/8% senior notes along with proceeds from our upsized revolver and cash on hand.
We applied $15 million of proceeds from the sale of our fishing and rental assets to debt reduction.
These improvements in our debt structure during the year resolved in an annualized interest expense reduction of approximately $23 million.
In addition we have reduced total debt by approximately $95 million since March 31 2013.
For the quarter interest expense was $9 million down from $10.7 million in the prior quarter.
And for the fourth quarter we expect interest expense to be approximately $7 million.
Looking now at other company-wide expense trends our G&amp;A expenses were $26.6 million up from $25.3 million in the prior quarter.
We expect G&amp;A to be flat to slightly up in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $46.1 million with ongoing unit growth and production services we expect D&amp;A for the fourth quarter to be approximately $47 million.
Our tax rate for the third quarter was 44% excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 38% to 39% range in future quarters.
Cash capital expenditures in the third quarter were approximately $46 million bringing our year-to-date spending to approximately $121 million.
We expect to come in at the low end of that range of our previous range which is a $185 million to $200 million.
And the two additional new build rigs now in order will fall primarily into 2015.
Based on commitments for equipment that will be delivered in 2015 and including estimated routine and maintenance cost our new guidance for next year’s CapEx budget is now on the range of $250 million to $270 million.
However if activity levels drop in 2015 as a result of lower oil prices that CapEx spending level will decrease by potentially as much $40 million to $60 million.
As we said last quarter we will continue to pursue a balanced capital structure that gives us the flexibility to add equipment if appropriate while still working to enhance our balance sheet and with that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
I would tell as we look out into the future excuse me one has to be cautious with the oil prices where they are today.
If they persist we feel certain that capital spending will be adjusted downward relative to prior expectations and this more the likely will affect the pricing and utilization.
I think it’s hard to determine today the magnitude of those adjustments but it’s likely that they will come and it’s also likely that 2015 will grow increasingly more difficult through the course of 2015 if the low oil prices persist.
Looking specifically to the fourth quarter I think we would expect normal seasonality in the quarter.
As in the past our production services segment revenues are typically down in the fourth quarter and margin is off slightly.
We do have new additions coming in for the quarter which will offset the effects of the efficient rental sale.
So information we’re guiding in the fourth quarter for production services revenues down 5% to 7% and margin off 1% to 2%.
In the drilling services segment we see utilization improving as I mentioned previously we’re currently 94%.
Our channel checks looks pretty strong at the present time for the fourth quarter.
So we’re guiding up in utilization 89% to 92% and then in terms of average daily margins we think they’ll normalize as Colombia situation is improved.
I think there is a little bit of tail on the Colombia improvement that it will affect our margin guidance slightly but we are guiding for average drilling margins of $8 400 to $8 700 per day in the fourth quarter.
With that those concluded our prepared remarks and we would like to open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of John Daniel Simmons.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Stacy first one for you the nine rigs that are up for renewal on Q4 the 14 that are up for renewal on Q1 at this point given what you see and we know what the commodity price would you anticipate that they would get renewed at higher pricing same pricing or lower pricing? I would predict that the majority of them would be renewed and I think the pricing is probably if I had to guess at this point flattish.
I don’t see any downward Don Lacombe is sitting in here with me but I don’t think we’re seeing anything that we’d suggest downward pressure on pricing.
I think we pretty good visibility about the work schedules of these clients and I think most of these will be extended and probably at – we actually may have a few go up but the majority will be flat I’m guessing.
Does it sound right Don? That’s correct.
Okay.
And so then as we just think about the cash margins going into Q1 in all likelihood flattish as well maybe down given opinion like that? I think as we’ve kind of talked about it in last couple of calls I mean I anticipate that if we can hold the day rates flat with Colombia improving and then later in the year having the new build rigs come into play I think we could see a gradually improving margin.
Now with lower oil prices that could change at some point during the course of the year possibly even as early as the first quarter by quarter end.
We’re just not seeing that yet.
Colombia has been the drag.
I think our average margins we would even got it little higher for Q4 and but Colombia has been a drag on that and we’re changing some of the terms and conditions that kind of got us in this trap in this past year’s contract in the new contract that we’re negotiating.
So I think that we’ll have a few more protections and the outlook is pretty positive there.
Okay.
One more then I’ll turn it over to others.
And you guys Mr.
Eustace and team has done a great job with the well services businesses here year basically growing when others can't.
But we’re now as you alluded to – we’re in a slightly different environment with oil prices bleeding lower and hopefully you guys know there is a whole lot of work over rigs being built still so at this – at what point do you see the industry supply which is growing beginning to impact your pricing and utilization levels? I wish we could answer that.
I really don't know but I would suspect that it could come in the first half of the New Year that we could see a little bit of push-back.
I think we are probably being asked to rebid more now than we have in the past and so that suggests a little bit of a tone change.
We work hard to defend our pricing on performance and safety but that is tougher to do as these oil prices persists.
So if we had to predict at this point I think that you could see a little turn during the first half of the year I don't know if you could see this quickly in the first quarter but possibly but more likely second third quarter if it happens.
Thank you for the candid answers.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Is there any color you can provide on what customer conversations are like from a CapEx perspective for 2015? And obviously with the moving oil prices there is a lot of uncertainty out there.
But any sense or details you can provide in call it a low $80 oil case do you think there are certain types of programs that gets slowed or even decline in this environment or different basins that are more at risk than others?  Well that’s a good question and I don’t know that we know the answer because I would say that it’s still a little early.
I mean we are – we virtually heard almost nothing from our client base.
I mean you can hear a little bit of murmuring but you know the conversations are going on in the board rooms of these companies as you approach the 2015 budget.
And so we would still think it's a little early in that process but it’s probably coming soon where we will hear more plus a fair number of these clients have hedged at fairly healthy prices so we do here some of that from our clients that they are less concerned about it in the short medium term.
And in terms of the basins and the activity levels we honestly have been trying to figure that out and I can't say we've reached any great conclusions.
We speculate a little bit about West Texas whether the vertical drilling might actually be a little more attractive with lower pricing just because the cost of the wells are so much lower but we don’t know just – we don't have enough insights those are the kind of questions that we’ll be asking operators over the next few months to get a sense of that for ourselves.
But I think it’s hard to say some of the basins like the Bakken has been pretty – it's been in pretty good level.
I think our client there best I know we’re going to stay busy.
Permian right now is just too hard to call.
I'd say the Eagle Ford looks steady right now but it is just too early to tell.
So I wish I could give you a little more color but it’s – Lorne do you have any thoughts you want to add if it…?  No I’ve (inaudible).
Well thanks for that.
Did we totally not answer that question? I mean it was enough to get a little bit.
But switching gears to the production service business I mean given your experience in that business would you expect capital dollars or dollars to get diverted from new well drilling to production maintenance in kind of a flattish rig environment next year if that were to be the case or kind of what is your sense on the trade-off between production maintenance versus new well drilling in this sort of environment? Well the production maintenance side of it has been picking up as these horizontal wells have more time on them and there's more service to be done on.
So that's a historically normal trend.
I think they have a lot of wellbores out there lot more than they used to be and I think that will be the case and we will see a little more spend on the maintenance side keep production up Thanks that's helpful.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning Stacy and Lorne.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Stacy so switch gears to Colombia a couple things around that.
You guys have had some delays with this whole pad issue.
It sounds like that is rectified for the time being.
Just maybe your kind of gut healing on is this something that might pop back down the road as a problem or do think they have got that under control for one? And for two as you are starting to talk about contracts for next year do think that process goes smoother than it did last year and does the delays you had this year push you contracted work into 2015 already?  Well that – there is an eagerness on our primary clients’ part to sign a contract before contract expiration which is at the end of the year.
So that’s why we're working in earnest to that goal.
We hope that something executed here during the month and they are way behind.
And they’re way short of their production goals and that is the impetus behind –starting the renewal process earlier.
So I think I would foresee that renewal to be smoother and sooner than last year.
And with respect to the pads I think that – I don't think they'll look that happen again.
I know for us that we never experienced it previously and therefore we didn't have the adequate contract protection.
And in the contract we put contract protections to prevent it in the unlikely case that it does reoccur.
The challenge there is you hire a lot of people a lot more people than you do here in the U.S.
per rig.
Then we have a 100 man camps down there.
Lots of what they call paddio-hands [ph] working.
And when you bring these people on before they can step on location they have to go through pretty extensive training.
So when we get the order to move the rig we can’t move the rig.
There’s virtually no way we can move it because we have to get the people trained up prior to being able let them all on location so we can move.
So it is a bit of a catch-22 and since we never anticipated that problem previously we’re putting language to protect us in the contracts that we’re trying to renew currently.
So but I don't think they will get nearly that far behind.
I am quite sure I understand why they’ve got so messed up on getting these pads built but it looks like it’s behind it looks like they are eager to establish production improvements that they need these rigs to do it.
So we think by the end of the month of November we’ll have this worked out.
Inc.</strong> That's great color.
I appreciate that.
And then as a follow-up you guys have done a pretty good job this year obviously of working down the debt the 9-7/8% notes refinanced.
As you look into next year and you are talking $250 million to $270 million as kind of your initial CapEx guidance where do you see your debt balance going maybe for Lorne under that scenario.
Well we believe that we can keep it level or I guess a couple of weeks ago we told you we would expect we could do that and still have some debt reduction.
And it’s still possible but we need to be realistic in this lower oil price environment that if activity or pricing or both fall off that would impact us.
But if activity does fall off like I talked about it’d be like we can reduce some of that activity based CapEx spending.
And so that would be our goal as to stay leverage neutral and there are other things there are rigs that for the right price we would consider selling.
So situations like that we’ll continue to look at but – and on the other side there is potential for us to sign up another one or two new builds in this environment which would add to the spending but it would only be done with the term contract.
So yes our belief is that we can hold it flat and we are going to see we can do to just continue work to decrease it but we would be willing to sign up one or two more new-builds if we hit out the right terms and conditions.
Inc.</strong> Perfect appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Lorne you were just there but could you elaborate maybe just a little more on where the toggles are in next year's CapEx budget maybe on the drilling side versus the production services side if that's carrying back some of the growth capital on the production services side or just watching that maintenance and sustaining budget a little more closely? It's really the latter.
A lot of the drilling CapEx which is usually probably three quarters of our routine and maintenance CapEx cost is very – that piece of it is for activity-based.
So if there was a decrease in drilling activity the majority of the pullback would be in drilling other routine and maintenance.
And obviously there is some discretionary items that are not for new units that if you are in an environment that was – had decreased activity you would probably have the opportunity to just pull that equipment from another rig for the time being if you chose to do that.
Also and I would also say one thing I haven’t mentioned is going back to any of our vendors for the equipment we have on order.
If we were in a situation where we felt that made sense and in fact we do have those discussions and have started to investigate that just to make sure we are prepared in pushing back delivery and delaying that cash outlay if it seems appropriate.
So we are evaluating all those things but to your point the primary pullback would be in routine the maintenance due to reduced activity and it would be primarily in drilling.
Okay thanks.
And then just a quick follow-up.
It was pretty clear that the decline in drilling margin sequentially was due to Colombia.
But I guess I just wanted to clarify your U.S.
day work margins did those increase sequentially I assume? They were pretty flattish.
Most of the – we have had some day rate increases that I think we'll see the effects of those coming in in the fourth quarter more than say the third quarter.
But that's why we are saying earlier in a prior question that we thought once Colombia is normalized that we could see our average increase a little bit barring the unknown from a current yield downward pressure on rates.
Similarly we keep the rates flat and then layer it through the course of the second and third and fourth quarter of next year the new-builds we think we can see average margins improve a little bit.
Okay guys.
That's helpful.
Thanks Lorne.
Thanks Stacy.
The next question is from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Following up on that last question a couple of your peers have talked about some additional training costs and crewing costs effectively as they gear up for admittedly larger programs larger new-build programs than yours.
But I'm sort of wondering if that's something we need to think about on your end as well if that has some bearing in the US operating – the daily OpEx outlook? I don't think so for us our scale is different.
We've been able to source labor in past cycles fairly efficiently.
And we do have training costs but we have trading costs ongoing it's really probably going to be no different in 2015 compared to 2014 and 2013.
I mean we do a lot of training and we'll just continue to have but when you are trying to source hands for just five rigs that's going to be fairly easy for us.
And we don't have the big manufacturing facilities.
We outsource facilities so we don't have any lingering facility-related cost of labor and property and plant and taxes and everything associated and equipment there.
So that's certainly a benefit during times as things slowdown.
Inc.</strong> Sure sure.
No that all make sense and that's good just to hear it.
Okay thanks.
And then the – a second unrelated question from me on production services and specifically well servicing.
So your answers to a couple of the questions were interesting and potentially at cross currents maybe because you talked about potential pricing pressure presumably related to new-builds but also that the basic idea that production maintenance spending might rise in this kind of an environment next year would presumably suggest a demand increase.
So maybe I could ask you to tie those together or maybe I didn't quite understand a piece of it or maybe the completion services side is more important than I'm thinking but if you could help to reconcile the outlook that would be great.
Well it's tough to do at this stage quite honestly.
I mean we are speculating along with you and everybody else as to what is going to happen.
I think it was John Daniel or I think it was John that asked that question or – but the – we are such in the early stages that it’s hard to know really what's going to happen.
But what we're trying to suggest there is there are a few flags up that cause us to query whether in fact we could be at the beginnings of a crossroads where we might start seeing a little pricing pressure.
Can't say that's going to happen our performance of that group is stellar.
The safety record is very very good working for big publicly-traded companies with big programs where they are going to want to keep their production up.
So having said that it may not impact us for the first quarter say or even the second quarter.
But I think that if price of oil stays low I just think you can't assume that to be the case.
You would have to assume that people are going to cut back on some levels of activity which will put a little pricing pressure on the table and utilization pressure on the table.
But in past cycles when the dollars aren't being spent quite as much on the front end say like a number of analysts are predicting drilling rig count declining down in 2015.
Well if that occurs then you are going to be spending a little less on drilling wells a little less on completing wells but the – there might be a little more capital allocated to keeping your production up.
That's really all we were saying.
And that trend has been true in past cycles.
And I think the I guess the reassuring part of it for us in our space is that there are so many more wellbores out there today than there were in prior cycles due to all of the horizontal plays.
It – I will add another data point.
If you look at the last soft cycle which started third and fourth quarter of 2012 and persisted maybe for the first three quarters of 213 well servicing didn't see that cycle relative to our other business lines.
Drilling was impacted by the utilization and pricing.
Wireline was also impacted by the utilization and pricing.
Coil was also impacted the well servicing really was not.
So I feel pretty good about well servicing actually.
But we'll just have to see how it plays out.
It’s – I think we are in a good spot with the right people and the right equipment and I'm not too worried about it but time will tell we will obviously update you when things change but I think it’s a little too early to make the call on that.
But I do think it's important to recognize a few of the early warning signs that could be out there.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for that.
And maybe just one more please.
Is there a distinction in your mind between what is – you've benefited from having 500-horsepower and up right in taller masks [ph].
Is that – is your answer impacted at all by your fleet disposition or might in a production maintenance environment might it as well serve a 300 or 400-horsepower units? That's a good question.
Our experience so far has been that the completions are not going to stop.
They are going – rig count even if it declines 200 rigs they are still going to have lots of completion activity.
And I think the benefit of our equipment is that operators the types that we are working for want flexibility.
They want the ability to use the same equipment and same people for completion work as well as maintenance work whenever they need it.
So what has happened to us typically is an operator will pick up that rig and it will stay with that operator doing whatever that operator needs it to do which is a combination of maintenance and completion.
I really don't think that will change.
Inc.</strong> All right thanks.
I have hogged the line long enough.
I will turn it back.
Thank you.
You bet.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Brown with Global Hunter.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to say it's refreshing that you are being candid and sharing your views on the outlook without rose-colored glasses.
And what I was wondering and this is actually in line with the question you just answered with.
What sort of oil price or what – how long at current oil prices would it take to get a reduction in the U.S.
rig count or well count? Well that’s tough to answer but I would say if I was going to try to answer it I would say that if $75 to $85 oil persists for a period of time where the expectation becomes that it's going to persist into next year first-half all year then people will adjust their spending.
And so it's just – everybody has called out – those that have more hedging probably less affected but there will be a large group that will be affected.
And so I think that it's just – it's more about expectation than current price.
If people thought this was a blip I don’t think we would see a wrinkle.
But I think it's becoming a little bit more of a persistent concern at this point I know some of you smart guys have come out and forecasted pretty significant declines in oil prices for 2015.
Well all these guys are reading that and seeing that.
And if that's what they are running their economics on and then they are going to reduce capital spending and that's going to affect our businesses a little bit.
So there again we are kind of at crossroads time will tell.
But I do believe that you will see capital budgets turn down relative to what folks thought they would be a couple of months ago in 2015.
Well that's helpful.
Just a follow-up question it didn't seem like the weather or the rains that the Permian Basin experienced had much of an impact on your drilling business or any of your other businesses.
And I just wanted to check is that correct to say that you pretty much – you got through that without a significant impact? Yes I would say we weathered the storm pretty well.
We don't have as much production services out there it is mostly just wireline.
And the drilling rigs are – red to be any material effect that you are aware of I'm not aware of any.
So I think we did fine tune that.
And just one more question.
Are you experiencing any labor cost pressures in any basins or in any lines of business that we – that you are monitoring going forward? I – the only business – well I would say we probably have a little but more in the Production Services segment in wireline and well servicing coiled perhaps more so than drilling drilling is stable.
That – as budgets get wound down that will probably cease to exist as well.
I think folks will pull back on growth a little bit on the service side as well and so I don't see there is an ongoing challenge in 2015 as much.
Well thank you very much.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys and thanks for all the color.
Just had one more for you down in Colombia it sounds obviously like they certainly need you guys to keep working ahead and maybe some concessions and maybe even longer contracts.
Could you maybe just comment on what you are seeing as far as the pricing? Is it going to be pretty stable from what are we are at or how is that changing as well? I think the pricing will be stable.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And really I guess I mean it's just a good sign obviously that the term looks like it may actually extend more than a typical year than we've done recently.
Is that really their push I guess just to make sure they have that continuity more than maybe – or is it kind of a partnership if you will kind of both wanted a little bit more term?  I would say it’s the latter.
We would like a little more term.
And the continuity is a benefit particularly with respect to labor and ironing out your processes and procedure and training and so we wanted more and they wanted more.
So we had a happy meeting of the minds on that.
Inc.</strong> That sounds great.
Look forward to hearing about it.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is coming from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks for putting me back in.
Lorne a couple – these are more housekeeping but at least the first one is can you tell us what the drilling days were in Colombia in Q3? I don't know that we typically release that… I know.
I was just asking.
Yes.
Okay then I will probably not release at this time.
Fair enough and I thought I would try.
With rental pools behind you now should we expect you to focus on just the four remaining segments or is there any desire to add a fifth segment next year? No we are not really looking to add anything.
We’re really happy with the businesses that we have and they work very very well together.
Fishing and rental was a little bit of an outlier and it wasn’t really on a growth track and it was gas kind of gas oriented.
And we wanted to – it's better having fewer chicks in the nest to feed and so we can allocate our capital where in our core businesses that we want allocated into.
So that was basically the reasoning behind that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And all of you guys not to say that you are old but you have lots of experience in the business.
You've been through lot of cycles so clearly everyone is worried about oil prices.
And you had some of the questions with respect to CapEx how quickly could you dial it back that stuff.
But no one this earnings season really seems to focus on the income statement adjustments that might be required if things moderate.
And I'm just wondering as you guys are seeing there internally looking at your budget for 2015 are you proactively doing any preparation for what costs could be removed from the business should activity moderate and how quickly would that – would you be able to implement that? Well we are looking at it and we do that every time that we're potentially on the precipice of a change and we downsized fairly efficiently.
Late 2008 2009 we had some pretty massive reductions and cost and labor and pulled back on spending and across the board and we kept layering in different stages through the course of that cycle.
When you look at the 2012 back half – first half of 2013 that was a very subtle downturn.
And so we did implement cost controls and we did pare back.
As you know we didn’t build any new-builds during that period.
We were assessing and we didn't think we could get the terms and conditions that we wanted either.
The big expense in our capital budget or the newly build rigs more or so than the production service side of the equipment.
But we didn't move into the new-builds until the end of the first quarter of this year when we thought the pricing and terms and conditions might reach the levels that we wanted and we’ve been able to achieve that it make change now then we’ll back on.
We’re not about market share we're about return on investment.
And so we don’t terms and conditions game over for us on building new-builds.
And I think even if we did get the terms and conditions we are in a cautious stance now on spending and so we will not walk out – climb out further on that tree limb.
So we are already assessing it.
We can pullback a lot of costs and expense and we will do that when we gauge that it's required for sure.
Fair enough okay.
Good question.
Well just it seems like this time around the industry has the benefit of seeing where the commodity prices are right now as we are going into budget season? Right.
That’s all.
Yes.
Hey Lorne last one for me and I'm sorry to be a phone hog here but can you remind us just ballpark what a leading-edge partly you are paying now for a new workover package a new wireline package and new quotes are being for package and ballpark is up perfectly fine.
Yes the well service unit is probably about $1.75 million.
(inaudible)   The whole unit working.
Yes.
And then the wireline unit is about $800 000 with the equipment on it.
And totally tooled out?  Yes.
Okay.
And then the coil unit depends somewhat on the size but if you… $7 million for the big ones.
Yes $7 million would be the high-end.
That would be extremely high-end the biggest ones.
2 inch would probably be $5 million to $6 million.
Yes about $5 million $4.5 million.
Thanks guys.
Thanks for all the detail.
All right.
You bet.
The next question is from the line of Jess Patel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks guys.
I appreciate all the color this morning maybe just one quick one for me.
Stacy you alluded to it earlier I guess with the lower break-even costs profile in the vertical plays in the Permian is it conceivable if we have kind of a lingering $75 $85 price environment in oil where you could actually see that rig count up a little bit? If that is the case I would imagine that plays in your hands pretty well.
Right.
I – we have just been speculating about that in the office because the cost of the horizontal wells is so high.
And the vertical wells are a quarter of that cost from a third to a quarter and I still make pretty good wells.
And we have not tested that theory on operators.
I have had prior conversations with one of the engineers of – the one of the biggest operators in the Permian about that exact topic in the past.
It would be interesting to see.
I really don't know that we know the answer so it doesn't really matter as much we have both where we have SCR rigs we are taking AC rigs there and we have mechanical rigs there.
And it's kind of nice all those assets provide an operator a different price point the mechanical rigs are certainly cheap.
The mechanical rigs with top drives are in the day rate range of $17 500 to $19 but don’t – it’s just a theory at this point I would say.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
At this time I’ll turn the floor back to Stacy Locke for closing comments.
All right.
Well thank you all for participating with us on the call today.
We enjoyed the questions and we’ll buckle our seatbelts and see what happens next.
Appreciate it.
Bye bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.