Greetings.
And welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now pleasure to introduce your host Anne Pearson of Dennard-Lascar Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Before I turn -- the call over to Pioneer’s CEO Stacy Locke; and Chief Financial Officer Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items to cover.
First of all a replay of today’s call will be available by webcast and also by phone replay.
You will find the replay information for both in this morning’s news release.
Also just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today February 17 2015 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they’ll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today’s news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You’ll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning’s release.
So now I’d like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne.
Good morning everybody.
Joining me here in San Antonio this morning is Brian Tucker President of our Land Drilling Segment; Joe Eustace President of our Production Services Segment; and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
I think I am going to focus a little bit more on what kind of trends we are seeing currently and our outlook for 2015.
Lorne will give a pretty good recap here in a second fourth quarter events.
We did have a very good fourth quarter.
But I think everybody seems to be most concerned on what we see for 2015.
As we mentioned in the press release the vertical market which is drilled by our mechanical rig fleet has come down very very rapidly really beginning back in November and escalating in November and December.
And if you recall back in the ’09 downturn all these vertical rigs had been drilling gas and doing very well and then they stacked out through ’09 and then we invested in them in ’10 to move them to Permian and drill vertical oil.
While the vertical oil market has changed since we have been in the Permian originally all of our clients which were mostly the large publicly-traded operators were drilling many many vertical wells and while some still are today were drilling before this drop in oil prices.
A number of them had been reallocating their capital budgets into the horizontal play.
So we have got to face with the decision point here because these rigs are clearly going to stack out.
We don’t know for how long.
But when you stack up rigs for a period of time you do have to invest them to reactivate them.
It won’t be near the investment we had as we’ve upgraded the rigs for the West Texas work.
But nonetheless we see this is a great opportunity to go ahead and exit our lowest margin sector of our drilling segment.
We have been as we have discussed in the past actively trying to sell some of these rigs.
Red West continues to work on that for us and we have been successful after months of work and negotiation and selling six rigs so far this quarter three of them were mechanical rigs and three of them were 60-seriesi rigs that we have had trouble I should say they are little lighter electric rig 1 000 horsepower double rig.
As lateral rigs have grown longer these rigs have been a little more challenging to put to work.
So we have been trying to sell them.
We have had very successful sale here and we are very pleased with that.
We continue to have ongoing negotiations on some additional rigs sales.
But our goal would be to exit essentially 100% of the mechanical market and some additional 60-series during this first quarter.
Excuse me however we planned to maintain out of the mechanical fleet would be two high performing top drive mechanical rigs one of which has walking system.
You have heard me referenced at least one of this rigs in the past that worked in Utah.
Excuse me they have been just top performers and actually completed very very well against SCR and AC rigs of our competitors.
And so we are going to hold on to these two rigs.
One of them is still working today and there is called upon by operators by name to -- for -- to work it.
So we are going to hold on to those two mechanical top drive rigs plus about three smaller turnkey-oriented mechanical rigs that we’ve just said great success with.
We have been on a very extensive program to drill the top oil section for some of our large public and majors here.
It’s slowed up now.
But we think that will activate plus we have these shallow turnkey that we have down for many years very successfully.
So we want to keep that work going.
With respect to the 60-series we still have three mechanical 60-series that were all built in the mid-2000s that we planned to sell and one more electric.
And that will leave us two of the 60-series that are both working today and we feel reasonably good about the opportunity to continue working those rigs.
So our focus going forward is to target the high-end horizontal market which has been a great market for us and our highest margin area.
As you heard us comment in the past our recently build AC rigs have been extremely high performing and well received by the operator base.
We are in the process of building five more new-builds which will deliver two of them in the second quarter two in third and one in the fourth and we think those will be as high-performing of a rig that’s available in the marketplace today.
So once those rigs are out this year our fleet will be considerably high graded with 16 AC rigs 22 SCR rigs which all have top drives and all of the five are walking couple are skidding in there but very good competitive SCR fleet and so we’ll end the year at 43 fleet rigs.
So we ended 2014 with 62 rigs.
We will end first quarter at 38 rigs and then we will add the five new drills and end the year at 43 rigs.
It’s very difficult to gage right now what’s going to happen in the drilling market.
But we feel very comfortable in saying we are confident we will be working 12 to 15 rigs here in the U.S.
this year at kind of a bottom and probably four to five rigs down in Colombia.
But we also have the benefit during the course of the year of $43 million of early term revenue that will be contributing as well.
In Colombia four of our eight rigs are working under an extended contract that expires at the end of June.
We were able to hold.
We’ve had the highest day rates in the country.
We were able to extend that at just a 3% reduction in day rate so that’s worked out well and we are aggressively bidding new opportunities there in Colombia to diversify our client base.
And I think we’ve bid a total of seven or had negotiations with seven new parties there.
So we are -- while it’s a very depressed market and pressure on day rates is immense we are optimistic that we will be able to diversify our client base to some degree.
And of course we are hopeful that in the summer we will be able to renew the four rigs or so under a new contract.
Now turning to the Production Services side of the business starting with the well servicing.
Presently well servicing continues to remain active and is actually holding up better than our wireline and slightly better than our coiled tubing services business both in terms of activity levels and in pricing.
At the present time we have a very steady flow a 24-hour work that’s continued.
We think it will continue.
Pricing has been impacted but somewhat minimally at 5% to 7% so far.
But we anticipate the pricing could come off as much as maybe 10% to 15% by the quarter end still a lot of competition a lot of pressure there.
But our high performing fleet has allowed us to hold pricing fairly well.
Just a side comment there about 8% to 10% of our overall fleet is working in a manner that’s not really subject to the whims of oil prices and less cyclical type of applications such as the chemical plants and strategic drilling reserve caverns or oil storage wells and the like.
So we do have a portion of that fleet that’s pretty insulated.
As we progress through the year in this downturn we do anticipate that we will stack some well servicing rigs similar to what we did in 2009 but it’s hard to gage a quantity at this point.
At the end of 2014 we had 116 well servicing rigs.
We’ll have nine delivered in the first half of the year and we’ll end 2015 at a 125 oil servicing rigs.
Turning now to wireline pricing and activity levels there begin to falloff a bit actually in the fourth quarter.
Some of that is seasonal in nature but we do think the oil downturn has played a role in it.
Pricing declines initially were on the order of 5% to 10% but we feel that that’s intensifying and we could be as off as much as 20% -- 15% to 20% during the first quarter here.
Our utilization has been a little bit weaker in the first quarter.
We do anticipate we’ll probably have to stack out some units there in order to downsize our costs structure.
But there again in these early stages of downturn it’s hard to quantify that.
So we ended the year in wireline with a 120 units.
We will add eight and end the year at 128 into 2015.
In our coiled tubing services business we had a great 2014.
We exceeded our expectations.
What we had hoped to have happen happened.
We had top performance.
I would put them on par with the quality of service and safety that we have in our well service and our wireline.
I can sit on the top notch team at this point and we are very competitive in the marketplace building a great reputation.
Activity there is actually holding up fairly well.
Pricing is off a little bit but we’ve earned the name in the business and we do have lots of inquiries there.
Pricing thus far is off a little bit 5% to 10%.
But so far it’s holding up fairly well.
We ended the year with 17 units and we have no plans to add new units in 2015.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Lorne to give a financial recap.
Thanks Stacy and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter we reported consolidated revenues of $238.1 million which is up 4% from the prior quarter.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $66 million slightly down when compared to the prior quarter excluding the benefit of the $10.7 million gain on asset sale in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of a $72.3 million fleet and equipment impairment and a $8.7 million charge for early debt redemption we took in the fourth quarter our adjusted net income was $2.9 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
I’d like to also point out two additional items in the quarter.
We recognized the $4.5 million foreign currency loss the impact to earnings per share of approximately $0.09 as well as the benefit of a gain on litigation of $1 million and $0.01 per share impact.
The U.S.
dollar strengthened considerably relative to the Colombian peso during the quarter and as a result we recognized the loss on the translation of peso denominated accounts in U.S.
dollars.
Turning to drilling our drilling revenues increased sequentially by almost $16 million compared to the third quarter.
Drilling margin per day was 9 100 which is 1 290 higher than in the prior quarter.
The increases primarily reflects the higher activity in Colombia.
And the revenue from our Colombian operations in the fourth quarter was $33.9 million up 11% over the third quarter.
Since year end we’ve sold six rigs and we intend to sell an additional 18 by the end of the first quarter as Stacy mentioned.
So we’ll exit the first quarter with 38 and effectively be exiting the vertical drilling market.
Currently 38 rigs are earning revenues and 26 are under term contracts four in Colombia and 22 in the U.S.
10 of the 22 contracts in the U.S.
were early terminated.
Of the remaining 12 in the U.S.
four are up for renewals this quarter two in the second quarter zero in the third quarter and six expire beyond that point.
Four of the eight Colombia rigs are earning revenue and are under term contracts to mid year.
I should point out also that the revenue associated with early termination payments will be recognized over the life of each term contract and will total approximately $43 million.
This translates by quarter into an estimated $11 million in the first quarter recognition of $14 million in the second quarter $9 million in the third quarter $7 million in the fourth quarter and $2 million in 2016.
Turning now to Production Services revenues as compared to a year ago were up by 25% due to increased activity levels fleet additions and moderate pricing increases.
Compared to the third quarter revenues were down 3% to $140.3 million reflecting seasonal decline in activity as well as the impact of reduced commodity prices late in the fourth quarter.
Gross margin as a percent of revenues declined about 170 basis points versus the prior quarter and 36.1% which is due primarily to moderately reduced activity levels in all businesses.
Well servicing utilization was 90% in the quarter down from 101% in the prior quarter.
Utilization for the core business was 47% down 56% from the prior quarter.
Our average rate per hour for well servicing was $675 compared to $661 in the third quarter.
Turning now to our consolidated company items.
The G&amp;A expense was $27 million up slightly from the prior quarter.
We expect G&amp;A to be down in 2015 due to actions we have taken and are taking to scale down our cost structure.
Our current estimate for the full year is between the range of $88 million to $90 million for 2015 and approximately $23 million to $24 million in the first quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was $46 million down slightly from Q3 which reflects the sale of our fishing and rental assets.
With the sale of 24 drilling rigs throughout the first quarter we expect to see first quarter D&amp;A drop to around $41 million to $43 million and the full year estimate for D&amp;A to be in the $162 million to $166 million range.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 29.8%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses and any other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in 38% to 39% range in future quarters.
Also in the first quarter we will record a $1.4 million charge for the first three annual assessments of the Colombian net worth tax which was enacted in December of 2014.
This amount will show up in other expenses on the income statement and will not impact the other quarters as it is an annual assessment a couple charge paid in the first quarter of this year.
Looking at our balance sheet in the fourth quarter we completed the redemption of the remaining $125 million of our 9 7/8% senior notes and we recorded $8.7 million pre-tax charge associated with the extinguishment of bad debt.
We use our revolver to fund the redemption.
We then take down $5 million on the revolver in the fourth quarter and in January we paid down additional $5 million resulting in $150 million outstanding on the revolver.
As a result of our continued focus on reducing indebtedness as well as our senior notes refinancing in 2014 interest expense dropped from $9 million one quarter earlier to $6.7 million in the fourth quarter.
For the first quarter we expected to be just under $6 million.
Cash capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were approximately $55 million bringing full year 2014 capital outlays to $175 million.
Given the commodity price and industry outlook for 2015 we’re again reducing our CapEx guidance for 2015 to $165 million to $180 million.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy for final comments.
Thank you Lorne.
We were hesitant to provide any guidance in this quarter just because it’s extremely difficult to provide reliable guidance in a market that’s changing as rapidly as this market is.
So we will give it to you.
We’ll take it with the grain of salt.
Rig count is coming down probably will continue to come down and put pressure on rate and pricing and all the business lines.
On drilling the AC newer built rigs rates seem to be off 18% to 22% to us somewhere in the 21 000 to 22 000 a day range.
Now all the data points are in the north in the colder countries winterize rigs but higher operating cost that it’s -- that's kind of where it seem to be settling out to us.
It probably would be a little lower very similar rig in the south without our operating cost.
SCR rates we really don’t have any data points but it seems it is in the 17 000 18 000 a day range for SCR rigs in the south.
I don’t really have any data points in the north to speak off but it would be a little higher in the north.
So I think in terms of our forward utilization in this quarter we’re guiding 78% to 80% utilization with the average fleet of 46 rigs because we’re in a transition period in this quarter with average margins of 10 000 to 11 000 a day.
On the Production Service side there again very hard to gauge.
We do think revenue is going to come off.
We’re going to forecast in the 15% to 20% range with deterioration in margins of 5% to 7% but it’s very hard to estimate those at this point.
So I think that will conclude our prepared remarks.
And we would be happy to entertain questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Could you give us some color on what the maintenance level of CapEx number is within this overall capital budget? $165 million to $180 million about $110 million of that is related to new unit additions with probably around $100 million is related to the five new build rigs.
So if you take the $110 million out of $165 million to $180 million what’s remaining there’s probably $10 million or so of maybe discretionary in there but it’s discretionary.
In fact you would -- you would only spend it if you needed to put the rig to work in a certain situation most of that would be drilling related.
And then could you also talk about your input cost reductions what are you seeing there in terms of cost for drill pipe or other material supplies.
You make things like that what kind of deflation you’re seeing there? Brian do you have any thoughts on it? Yeah.
We are seeing some reductions slight reductions.
Vast majority of our day work cost would end up with labor cost.
But we are seeing some vendors that are willing to go down in that 2% to 5% range but the significant piece of our daily cost is on the labor side.
We do -- just to comment on that we do expect labor cost at some point to come down as well if this downturn persist.
Sure.
And is there any precedence of that labor cost coming down in price cycles '08-'09 or '12-'13? Yes.
Okay.
And for us it’s -- we would prefer not to be a labor cost reducer leader it would be better if others led that campaign and then we would follow.
I think if anybody cut labor everyone would follow quickly.
And it’s inevitable.
The labor costs today are the highest they’ve ever been in the 20 years I have been here.
And with rates coming down it could be -- it’s inevitable that labor costs will come down.
Sure.
And then on your Colombia contracts you mentioned four to five rigs in this renewal probably in the summer.
What’s your confidence level that they get -- the rigs get renewed or some of them you find work with other customers? It seems that Colombia is also seeing some pretty significant CapEx cuts.
Well it’s true it’s a softer market and our primary client Ecopetrol is going to be operating fewer rigs going forward.
I think we’ve been real -- we’ve had almost an exclusive relation with Ecopetrol until recently.
And I think we are very pleased we are known as a top performing drilling contractor in the country.
And now that we have rigs available we are having lots of inquiries more than we would have anticipated.
So we are pretty confident we will be able to put rigs to work for other parties but we don’t know how lucrative the contracts will be just because everybody is looking for bargain on rates.
So we are going to do down there just like we are doing here trying to downsize our cost across the board.
So we can be competitive in there and we’ve got a good margin.
But it’s hard to tell you with Ecopetrol there has been pressure from them or request from them for a long time to bring AC new state-of-the-art rig into the country and we’ve resisted that just because our rigs have performed well and we couldn’t justify the return on investment because the rigs cost too much there.
They cost considerably greater than they do here when you outfit them with 100 men camp and redundant pumps and power and other items that are required under the contract.
So with the softer market there is some risk that with others might bring in some AC rigs into the country but we just have to see how it plays out.
We’ve got a great relationship with them.
I think it’s unlikely to renew eight rigs with them again but I think we have a reasonably good chance of renewing four or five and keep them busy.
Okay.
And last final question with respect to your five other construction rigs are there any discussions with the customers or customers asking for maybe renegotiations in terms of day rates or maybe early terminations? Obviously relatively new rigs now in the market sitting idle with customers -- the owners would be happy to settle low rates.
We’ve had some kind of preliminary discussions with folks I mean pretty much all the operators will ask if you can adjust something but the contracts are very good and we are committed on the substantial majority of the cost of the rigs already.
So I think that we think that kind of phase is over with and that we plan to build them and deliver them kind of on-time on-schedule and we think that’s what will happen.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick clarification on the 15 rigs you are going to put up for sale.
I presume those are involved in the write-downs.
Correct.
Okay.
And what is the market for those? I mean intuitively I would think well who the heck is going to buy those things right now? Well we’ve had six very successful sales so far in the quarter.
And it’s going like wow that’s impressive.
Yeah.
And one thing that you’ve heard say over the years the mechanical fleet that we have is I think it’s bar none the best out there.
I mean we have three or four these rigs with brand new 1 300-horsepower mechanical Drawworks a lot of them have 1 600-horsepower pumps Iron Roughneck I mean it’s a high quality fleet.
And I think that’s what is going to help us continue to sell them.
I mean Red West knows everybody in the business and he is continued to work on this and we have an opportunity for two to three more right now but we are just -- it’s just become a focus.
And so we are going to keep working on it.
I think whatever we don’t sell in a private sale we will have an option in March and should be able to track quite a few buyers from around the world for -- because of the quality of the equipment and all these six rigs or five of the six rigs are going to international that we sold so far.
So there are buyers out there.
I think quality had something to do with it because there we’ve got a reputation as the high quality equipment and the rigs that we sold previously have gotten great comments back on them.
And so we think we will be successful in moving them this quarter.
Well that implies that the parts that you could just pull off them and use on your other rigs are not as worth not as valuable as selling whole rig as full package I presume? Right.
We are going to sell -- this will be one of the few sales processes where we are selling complete working rigs with two bigger rigs and everything.
And that’s pretty uncommon I guess.
So I think we are -- and since we are basically reading ourselves that most of the mechanical rigs almost all of them where we don’t really want to keep spare parts we’ve got four or 5 rigs we will have remaining are in real good shape.
So we don’t need a huge inventory of additional equipment.
Perfect.
All right.
Actually your guidance was really helpful.
I know none of us really know how it’s going to unfold it’s probably declined faster than any of us thought.
Post you’re getting rid of all these other rigs you mentioned kind of back half of the year you’re thinking 12 to 15 active rigs of what’s left.
Presumably the daily -- average daily margin on those would be higher than what we are seeing now just because you’re hiring rigs.
Is that a fair assumption? I am just trying to gauge kind of back half of the year with the change in the mix.
Is that over average? The rigs that we are selling are by far our lowest margin rigs.
Those day rates have been 4 000 in the 15 000 16 000 a day range 17 000 maybe.
So the margins on those 3 000 to 4 000 have averaged down our average margin.
So with those being sold off our average margins will gradually -- it’s a little muddied up this year because of the earning not working revenue but when you strip that out the average margin should be going up every quarter from this point forward.
Okay.
Perfect.
Last question for me historically the workover rig businesses tended to track with the rig count just because when people have money they spend it when they don’t they don’t it stretch across all sectors? Its sounds like your workover rig business is holding up a little bit better than rig business at least from the higher end 24 hour operations is that correct? Number one number two is the rest of fleet kind of tracking down step for step with rig count or is it holding up better? The rest of it what was the last part you say the rest of it… Yeah.
Yeah.
Is the rest of it tracking down lock step with the drilling rig count? Right.
… kind of historically what’s happen? Right.
Well I think the well servicing fleet is holding up better than the rig business.
We just said it’s a great high quality fleet and they do a super job and it seems to be pretty steady under lots of pricing pressure.
But we’re able to holding that off just because the folks whom we are working with want to keep using it.
So they’ll just try to get the pricing low as I get it that they’ll plan to keep using it.
So we just try to thin it off the best we can but I think its going to hold up fairly well through the course of the year.
Wireline is about half of that business is completion work and a completion business has fallen off and its going to continue falling off probably so that’s playing into our kind of margin guidance quite a bit.
It’s going to still be pretty active.
The good news is before this downturn we were very diversified in services.
We’ve always kind of have that platform where we’ll definitely do the completion work but we want to have a big business its non-completion work that’s kind of playing into our hands right now and we’re seeing kind of an increase on that side.
But I think that market is going to be more impacted by the decline in the rig count and completion.
The coil I think we’re probably disproportionately outperforming a little bit there just due to the quality of the work we’re doing and in both wireline and coil the offshore market has been pretty resilient.
So that’s helping a little bit on those two business line.
But I think wireline is going to be the weaker of the three probably followed by coil a little bit later maybe and then I think well services is going to be weaker but holding up fairly well.
Great.
Thanks Stacy.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question will comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company International.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for [indiscernible] Just a few for you here.
Just on the contract termination payments lets take one of those rigs that are receiving those payments should find a home and back to work later this year? Do you still receive that termination payment or do you have refilled it if you have the customer cancel the contract? How does that work you can -- essentially can you actually double this or not? Well John it’s a mix.
In some cases if we -- in some cases there are no continuing obligations and in some other cases there if we put into work we would -- me too -- whatever we’re receiving we’re putting it to work we would refund to the customer.
So it’s a mix.
And that is -- as we’re recognizing over the term of the contract we can adjust that recognition if we end up where we’re in a situation where we’re putting rigs to work that are on term contracts.
That’s all of the categories reimbursing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Are any of the rigs going to be a challenge to model if you will? The $11 million of contract termination payments that are coming in this quarter if you were to just had that amount adjust that out what’s the clean cash margin number if you will? In Q1 you say I’m sorry.
What our forecast would be? Yeah.
I would say it’s flat to up slightly.
We still have -- in Q1 we still have a number of rigs that we will be selling but they are still working and wrapping up their last well.
Okay.
So we are still having some contribution from them as Stacy said it’s a lower margin per day.
There is also some noise in the numbers in Q1.
There is some stack out cost obviously in taking rigs and putting them in the yards and those that are being sold ready for sale and so on so.
I would say flat to slightly up in Q1 if you backed up to early networking.
And then that number for the working rigs going forward as Stacy mentioned that would -- we expect it to move up each quarter really through the years particularly as we add in the five additional new-build rigs.
The only one caveat to that that would work against it is if we’re renewing rigs at a lower price or putting to work at lower prices that could make the upward swing slow down a little bit but it should be trending up.
Okay.
Have any customers notified your plans to add rigs in the second half? Not really.
We are having discussions about putting rigs to work in certain markets.
We just -- in fact we're moving one from Utah to the Appalachia soon to start a good contract there and we’ve got some other prospects in the Bakken.
We’re talking to folks but there is not a lot of demand right now.
But I think as these cycles go it would not surprise me to see activity starting to trend upwards maybe late third if not the fourth quarter just the way prior cycles have acted.
I wouldn’t expect this to be too much different and we’ve got a very precipitous decline in rig count and that’s going to help with the oil prices later in the year and that will drive little more activity.
So it would be hard to get much pricing backed that earlier but activity would be a starting point.
Fair enough.
Last one for me then I will jump back in the queue.
When we used the proceeds from the rig sales and the cash from the contract termination payments to reduce debt or will that be needed to fund CapEx this year? Well.
It might be some of both.
As Stacy said it’s not super transparent but our expectation this year is that we are in a stage now that we should be flat and not drawing down the revolver depending on how the rig sales go and is the cash flows in and then the timing of CapEx.
We have some optimism that we will be working the revolver down over the course of the year.
The transparency isn’t great.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ken Sill with Global Hunter Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My questions -- the northern markets right you guys commented that rates have come down to kind of 21 to 22.
I know the Bakken the fringe areas are going to clearly be hit by lower oil prices but how much visibility did you guys have in the northern regions towards rigs working through Q3 Q4? Are people still kind of sitting on their hands or people moving forward to plans for workover the summer? You are talking about for drilling or workover well service? Drilling.
I’m sorry drilling.
Drilling yes.
Sub-drilling rigs.
Sorry about that.
Yeah.
I would say demand is pretty soft right now although we do -- we are having some conversations.
It’s very price sensitive but I think our expectation would be if oil prices recover a bit later in the year then that will drive a little more activity possibly in areas like the Bakken.
Marcellus is holding up fairly well the Utica Marcellus area.
So we think things later in the year we’ll start getting more inquiries.
Yeah.
I guess what I’m really drilling for is if the oil price stays down is there further downside potentially in kind of rates that you are seeing particularly up in the Bakken? Is it really dependent on oil prices right now or if we stay where we are all it gets to 55 to 60 do you think rates will flatten out how do you think they'll come down another notch? I think it’s hard to say right now but it seems like we’ve kind of bottomed out a little bit.
But if oil was to decline further in the short run I think it impact rates.
But cost is coming down all the cost for the operator and then eventually our cost are going to come down little bit.
So there will be just restructuring of the cost structure and that will allow people to make -- be able to make a little better returns even at the lower oil prices.
That still has to work through the system.
Yeah.
And the final question which you don’t have to if you don’t want to because no one really knows.
But we’re seeing oil rig count dropping 100 rigs last week.
Where do you think the oil rig count or the U.S.
rig count whichever one you want to take a stab at ends up at -- end up and I’ve got $60 to $70 or $70 to $80? And we don’t need 1600 where we would with $100 a barrel but you guys ever view what market equilibrium could be? Well we’ve asked everybody in the room here.
Everybody has a slightly different answer for that.
I would say that rig count is probably going down.
200 300 more rigs would be my guess.
And that’s going to be fairly precipitous decline up to the 100 rig count down from the last week.
And so at some point the rate of rig count decline will start slowing up and then it will flatten out.
And I think the rig count -- that’s the level of rig count decline is going to be enough to curtail production later in the year.
And as that happens one thing we don’t want to do is go through some of the other way.
And so I think it’s going to prop oil prices up a little bit kind of in the late second third quarter of the year and strengthening there after a little bit.
Just a theory.
I mean do you have a view there I mean do you think you end up doing 1400 oil rigs you can give back to 1600 or do you have a view on that? I know it’s a tough question you don’t have to answer… Yeah.
… try to guess at this? Well I don’t think it will be 1600 in 2015 but I do think that it will start bringing up to rig count later in the year and probably continue that through ‘16 and maybe by the end of ‘16 we kind of back where we started that’s just -- it’s hard to say that.
The rig count decline that we have thus far and what’s remaining is going to have an impact on production and that’s really what’s going to be the driver of recovering oil prices.
So there is a benefit.
While it’s painful there is a benefit having a swift sharp decline in rig count.
And so we’re certainly having that and that will I think make the cycle shorter as opposed to dragging it out into a wide U-shape or whatever.
f All right.
Thank you.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jason Wangler with Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I just had one kind of the topic on one that was asked before.
But on the rigs that has been brought back you guys so under contracts.
Is there significant or much difference in the margins that you’re getting from the cash spend versus the one that are out working under contract or are those number is pretty similar? Well again it varies somewhat by the contract.
So I do not get too specific but I’d say given that it’s certainly not working revenue it is a higher margin on average than what you would make just working rig.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Wishnow with GMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess kind of from a strategic standpoint clearly with the rig count decline and the pain that’s going to be endured on the service side when you guys think out in terms of 2016 with CapEx down and potentially some recovery in the North America landmark you guys start throwing off some cash.
Is there strategically another area we could expand on? Would it be kind of just organic growth new growth? Certainly demand is there.
Or is there another part of the business you guys are willing to pick up? I’ll tell you we are pretty happy with the four core business lines that we’re in currently and we’d planned on growing them all fairly aggressively in '15 and '16.
And so I think the first order of business for us would be to continue growing in these same business lines.
We’ve got pretty good critical mass good operations.
And so that would be the near medium term kind of objective.
Okay.
Great.
And just looking at production services the ones you guys provided revenue down 15% to 20%.
Is it safe to assume that decline kind of accelerates as we move through 1Q so your exit rate is probably something more like 30% or whatever the numbers are versus 15% 20% kind of flat heading into 2Q? Well I wouldn’t make that assumption.
Obviously there is some momentum on pricing decline but at the same time it is a seasonally low quarter.
And I do think -- so I think if you go into the second quarter you start to see more daylight hours and I also -- something that gives us -- that makes it harder to guide is as I am sure you’ve heard on the calls and in discussions with people that not everyone I think is completing the wells they're drilling and letting those wells get completed is what have an impact on obviously activity and potential pricing in 2015.
So we’ll probably stick with guidance just for Q1 and not get too much more specific into Q2 because it is -- there is not great transparency.
Absolutely understood.
Certainly it does change the market.
And just to clarify the 5% to 7% margin decline is that -- should we assume 500 to 700 basis points in decline versus 4Q or are you talking 5%to 7% decline -- sorry 5% to 7%? Yeah 500 to 700 basis point decline.
Thank you.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Appreciate it guys.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up coming from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company International.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for putting me back.
Sorry for all the questions.
Stacy can you tell us what the quarter-to-date utilization is for both well servicing and coil or at least January? Well we can tell you we’ve been running kind of in the 80s 80.
For well servicing and coil has been bouncing around.
So it’s a less meaningful number to hit right now.
But I’d say -- I’ll just give you a well-servicing number which has been in 80s some times low some time high 80s so far.
Okay.
So fair enough.
Are any of the rigs that you have sold or expect to sell I mean are any of them going to Colombia? You mentioned they are going to international markets? Not that we know of.
Okay.
And then the last one for me -- well couple of more.
Production services you got to 81 it’s coming in nine well service rigs.
We also noted that you’ll be stacking some equipment -- clearly new units that are arriving do you have work for those units at this point or are you taking until the market recovers? I think the -- John the plan depending on the activity levels that I think that likely outcome is that you put the new units to work you probably take some of the existing units that might be ready for refurb and maybe take some of the equipments after those -- the ancillary equipment after those open units.
Couple of most of the new base unit and put them out in field working.
And that allows you to hold off some on the refurb cost and keep your CapEx down and wait until you need those units back in the field.
Okay.
And it would be similar approach to product lines as well.
But there is not -- you don’t envision any scenario this year whether it be an impairment issue on your well service fleet? No.
Okay.
All right and then last one for me I’ll try I try to recall those see if I can get.
Production services revenue can you tell us what percent coil tubing represents? This is dollar percentage.
Hi.
I admire your persistence but… [Indiscernible] Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thanks guys for your time.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Locke for any additional concluding comments.
Great.
Well thank you all very much for participating on today’s call.
And we will look forward to the first quarter call here.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.