Good morning and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to your host Ms.
Anne Pearson with Dennard-Lascar.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson.
You may begin.
Thank you Doug and good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to CEO Stacy Locke; and CFO Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that we need to cover.
First of all a replay of the call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You will find the replay information for both in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today April 30 2015 so any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
If one or more of these risks materialize actual results could differ materially.
Also please note in this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's release.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne and good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our Drilling Segment and Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
We appreciate you all being on the call.
The first quarter came in about really as we expected drilling overall little bit better utilization and margin per day than we had anticipated.
U.S.
drilling probably exceeded a little bit on lower cost and maybe a little bit more early term payment than anticipated Colombia slightly underperformed due primarily to three large mobilizations two of which that I mentioned in the last quarter call.
That we moved two rigs to a free zone to avoid some hefty V80 payments and we have done that and taken them back out again and restarted that clock there and but the cost was greater than the demo from our client.
And then we also had a very long move from the upper middle Magdalena valley down to Bogota with another rig.
So on the production service side well servicing performed very well exceeded our expectations in the quarter.
Wireline was probably the biggest surprise we were hit fairly hard on the wireline front harder than we had anticipated in particularly the Bakken as you might imagine just due to completion oriented work.
Coil I would say came pretty much as expected.
The big event in the quarter for us was on the drilling services side where we successfully executed on the sale of 21 of our mechanical rigs mostly and some 60 series rigs.
We were early out into the cycle and had a Pioneer dedicated auction and sold everything that we wanted to sell.
And we are pleased with the outcome.
In addition as we had noted in last quarter's call we had a handful of private sales and we still have a couple that are pending today.
As we look at our fleet today we have a much more competitive drilling fleet with one of the highest percentage pad capable fleets in the industry.
I think it puts us at about 70% pad capable of our remaining 37 rig fleet.
We have a great platform to continue adding our 1500 horse power AC new builds which you have heard me talk about in the past.
They performed extremely well very competitive rigs.
We are most excited about the next four rigs that are coming out because they are a refinement to the last round of new builds.
And we think there are some design improvements and load reductions that are going to greatly enhance the rigs performance.
This particular rig on a pad can walk 150-feet in the x direction up to 50-feet in the y direction so to pin it on the operator spacing we can drill as many as 48 wells on a pad without moving a backyard which is tremendous.
In addition with the higher more capable mud pump and mud circulating systems with 2000 horse power mud pumps 7500 PSI fluid-ins mud circulating systems we can really handle any lateral length an operator wants.
And we designed this substructure to handle up to or actually over 24 000 feet of [five inch] [ph].
So we can handle pretty much any lateral length an operator wants to drill.
So we are very very excited about that of course these are also dual fuel capable like our other rigs that we put out.
And when you take all of that and then you can move the rig into two to three days from release to acceptance by the operator.
I think it's a rig that really sets us apart.
Now that of course would be for a non-winterized rig but that's a very quick rig move for a rig that capable.
So we are very very excited about our drilling segment and its prospects for the future.
Turning down to the production services side as I previously mentioned well servicing continues to outperform utilization and pricing was off a bit but overall we continue to perform very well in well servicing.
I think it's a combination of the right equipment all tall-masted rigs all higher horse power.
I think we positioned ourselves well with the client base.
We have a blue-chip client base.
We have clients that are active today which helps tremendously.
As we have discussed in past our personnel and well services is topflight and we just had an exceptional safety record there year in year out.
So we are still optimistic about the future for well servicing.
On the wireline front I think that was the surprise we have a great market share position in a number of key markets.
But the completion activity was way-off in this quarter which affected pricing materially.
Revenue per job and number of jobs were both down causing revenues overall to come down close to 35% 40% range.
Bakken was hit hard the Mid-Continent Oklahoma market was hit hard Gulf Coast Eagle Ford was hit hard all pretty much relating to the completion oriented work.
But the good news is that I think that the pricing – the brunt of the pricing has been felt and that we see a flooring out occurring we believe activity talk is for the future up a little bit few people have moved back in doing a few – doing things.
So we also are seeing our offshore business beginning to pick up.
It typically is slow in the first quarter and we are seeing signs of that picking up.
And that relates a lot to our coil tubing.
Coil is affected by the same completion activity being down offshore being a little soft in the first quarter.
We are just not following as many frac spread as we were before due to less capital being spent on completions.
But we are here in talk and we are seeing signs of improvement I think that offshore like a wireline is also beginning to see rays of hope again.
So I think I will turn it over to Lorne and let him talk about a few more financial matters and then I will come back with some thoughts on guidance and the future outlook.
Thanks Stacy.
This morning we reported revenues of $193.8 million and adjusted EBITDA of $36.8 million.
Excluding the impact of $6 million impairment in drilling adjusted net loss in the first quarter was $8.2 million or a loss of $0.13 per share.
So aside from the impact of reduced activity and pricing during the quarter I will point a few significant items during the quarter.
We reduced debt by $45 million since January 1 and that was driven partially by cash from early termination of drilling contracts as well as the sale of rigs.
We have had significant headcount reduction and other costs reductions in the first quarter.
And as a result when Stacy talks about the guidance you will see it's our margin percentage guidance is flatter or up in the second quarter in both segments.
Early termination revenue is now estimated at $53 million with all but $4.9 million of that to be recognized in 2015.
And that the sale of rigs that Stacy mentioned we have generated net proceeds of $24.8 million year-to-date we have an additional four still to be sold.
And two rigs that we had previously contracted to sell and I believe we discussed on the last call in a private sale they were to sell for a combined $9 million.
They may not sell as per the executed agreement.
So as a result we took that as the impairment that we took on those two rigs to reduce the carrying value to a lower expected sales amount net of the non-refundable deposit that was made by the buyer.
Talking a little bit about our U.S.
drilling fleet which is 34 rigs currently.
Today we have a 100% utilization of our 12 AC rigs and 43% utilization of SCR rigs these numbers are based on a revenue utilization.
By year-end after we have the additional 4 new builds 47% of the U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC 65% will be capable of walking and 74% will be pad capable.
Turning now to some of the details in the business segments production services revenues were $95.4 million down 32% and gross margin was 28% down approximately 800 basis points from the prior quarter.
Well servicing utilization was 79% and the average rate per hour was $619 and that compares to 90% utilization and the rate per hour of $675 in the fourth quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 35% down from 47% in the prior quarter.
Looking at drilling overall segment revenues were $98.4 million down 31% and utilization dipped about 500 basis points to 83%.
Margin per day was up quarter-over-quarter approximately 1000 to 10 112 and that was due primarily to the payments from the early term contracts and the removal of the lower margin rigs from our fleet as the quarter progressed.
And that margin also includes the impact of $1.2 million loss on the sale of equipment and approximately $1 million of cost related to stacking out rigs.
If you exclude the benefit in the margin per day from rigs earning not working the loss on the sale of the equipment and the stack out costs our margin per day would have been approximately 9100.
The $53 million of early termination payments is recognized ratably over the term of the contracts.
We recognized $11.3 million of that total in the first quarter which is roughly about $300 000 higher than what we had anticipated on our last call.
In the second quarter we expect to recognize $16 million of early term revenue and then the $11.7 million in the third quarter and $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
Overall today we have 38 rigs in our fleet that includes a rig – the new rig that went to work in April.
25 rigs are earning revenues under drilling contracts and 20 of those are under term contracts.
Of those 20 nine are earning but not working and of the remaining 11 rigs under term that are working seven are in the U.S.
Of those seven one is up for renewal this quarter nine are up for renewal in the third or fourth quarter and six expire beyond that point.
In Colombia revenue was approximately $20 million down 41% due to reduced utilization quarter-over-quarter.
Turning now to our company-wide expense items G&amp;A expense was just under $22 million which is down 19% from Q4.
For the second quarter we expect this number to be in the $21 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was just under $41.8 million down from $46 million in the prior quarter due primarily to the disposition of rigs.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the $40 million to $41 million range in the second quarter.
Interest expense dropped from $6.7 million to $5.5 million in the first quarter and it is expected to be flat to slightly down in the second.
The first quarter we did record approximately $0.7 million of capitalized interest related to the construction of the new rigs.
Also during the quarter we recognized $2.7 million of expense in the other category included in that is primarily made up of an expense of $1.2 million related to an annual Colombian wealth tax as well as a $1.8 million foreign currency loss.
These two items contributed to a lower effective tax rate of 27% excluding the impact to foreign currency gains or losses and other unusual items our effective tax rate is expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
With the recent debt payments we currently have $110 million outstanding on our $315 million revolving credit facility with an additional $18.5 million committed in letters of credit.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter totaled $45.7 million for the full year we are maintaining our $165 million to $180 million guidance although we expect today to be in the lower end of that range and that full year includes approximately $110 million in spending from the units.
Going forward we continue to focused on working safely and reducing costs and reducing our leverage.
And with that I will turn it back over to Stacy for final comments.
Thanks you Lorne.
As we examined the market that we are in today I think we all know that capital spending has come down considerably rig count as probably fallen down greater and faster than people anticipated it over 50% decline.
Service costs as a result including our services that have come down considerably.
And probably the most important is production in key basin and our key shale plays has started rolling over.
And example would be the Eagle Ford the Bakken Niobrara and so the ingredients to formal recovery are certainly in place.
And kind of consistent with that what we have seen a slight recovery in the price of oil but we are also beginning to hear a little chatter about activity levels picking up in certain cases late third quarter or fourth quarter which kind of further supports a bottoming in this market which we will do believe is occurring.
And our drilling operations utilization they are just very limited demand at the present time so we are guiding for lower utilization 60% to 63% utilization on a lower rig count but at a much higher margin due to the earning not working.
And we feel like that will probably slide a little bit into the third quarter and they probably in drilling that the third quarter might represent the bottom of drilling and then we start the recovery from that point.
On the production services side we see a little further – we have had momentum in the quarter that will cause revenues to come down we are estimating 12% to 15% in the second quarter.
But the good news is that that due to our cost reduction efforts as Loren already mentioned we brought our G&amp;A down even in this first quarter we will bring it down a little further the next quarter we have had a tremendous number of personnel reduction management layers compensation reduction at the peak of our employment in November we had 3 929 employees through about two three days ago we were down 1429 employees or 36% that's just to bring our cost structure inline with activity levels so we've had to stack – cold stack equipment and reduce the employment around that equipment and reduce layers and costs across the board.
And because of that even with the decline in revenues in our production and services we feel like we ought to be able to hold our margin flat if not even improve it a little bit.
So there is a lot of moving pieces in a market like this but we have done what we need to do to bring our cost structure inline with the level of activity and we are going to hold tight on that cost structure as we start working our way out of this downturn.
So hopefully we will see an improvement in production services in the third quarter and an improvement in our drilling side in the fourth quarter.
So with that I will just continue any remarks and open the floor to questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy I know that the spot market on the rig side is – has very limited depths right now but I was wondering if you were willing to give us any indications on what you are seeing out there on the rate side in the U.S.
market? I would say in the northern – well there is different rates probably even though they are compressed by class or rig.
I would say the AC rigs in the northern market are probably 28 to 22 a day these will be winterized rigs.
SCR rigs will be a little bit less than that maybe 18 to 20 21 probably 18 to 20.
In the south non-winterized rigs I would say the AC market is probably 19 to 21 somewhere in that range SCR rigs probably as low as 16 to 19 somewhere – Don LaCombe is in here – is that in the ball park.
Question is this additional jewelry on a rig walking rig would be amplified and kick that number up a little bit on a SCR flat rigs so – That's helpful.
On the AC side I'm assuming the quotes provided were for walking rigs since that the preponderance of what you will have ? Right.
Yes we don't have any non-walking AC rigs so yes.
It seems to be – yes just a follow-up on that Daniel the pad drilling is just becoming more and more critical in all of these shale plays and so that's where we have been making a huge emphasis is trying to take – we probably have one more rig that we would be willing to put a walking system on other than that we put that walking systems on all the rigs that we felt should have them.
And I think that's going to be very important as we go forward in this market as we come out of the downturn.
That's helpful.
And I will stick with the rigs for my follow-up question I think Stacy I heard you say Q3 bottom and drilling did that – I see you are referring to utilization more so than financial results but I guess the way we thought about it is the – as the revenue from the rigs on revenue not working sort of roll-off financially we expect to see some drift downwards but just didn't know how to calibrate that comment you made? Well I was actually talking about both.
I think utilization will be lower in the third quarter and financially with early term rolling off.
And then in our case Colombia will weigh on the margins in that third quarter because we are – we think we are in the progress of kind of renewing some term contracts and maybe increasing that in Colombia but it will be at a lower rate and a lower margin.
The market in Colombia is extremely soft and it's kind of a buyers market there like in the U.S.
and so if we were able to renew which we think we will be able to it will be at a lower margin.
So that will weigh in on it offsetting that will be the new builds coming in which are at extremely high margins.
But so it's just – we feel like Q3 is probably where that market bottoms out.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
You bet.
Are there any other questions? Please standby.
It appears there are no other questions in the queue.
I would like to hand the call back over to Stacy for closing comments.
No we did just get another question from Daniel Burke.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Go ahead.
Go ahead with it Daniel.
Yes.
I will keep you guys working for just a little bit longer.
It's a busy day out there.
I was curious how – well service utilization in Q2 that there is some level of seasonal benefit but the completion work you guys do that can't be getting any better how do you see well service utilization trending? I think it's going to stay fairly steady.
It could trend downward a little bit.
But we are still with clients that are very active.
I looked this morning we still have seven rigs today on 24-hour work.
We are with clients that are still doing things.
And probably one that are stuck with term contracts that they have to utilize fortunately.
And it's just that market I think broadly speaking is holding up fairly well.
There is a big maintenance component that and has always been and probably increased because they are just more time on all of these horizontal wells.
So and these things are very as you know service intense.
So you were seeing probably the maintenance side pick up and then we have – we are fortunate enough to have some of the more active operators that are still completing.
Okay.
So Stacy when we think about the top line guidance for production services in Q2 work over stable-ish coil I mean at least you get a bit of bounce or it sounds like maybe you get a little bit of boost from Gulf of Mexico seasonality helpful seasonality in Q2.
So wireline just sort of – I assume wirelines most of the gravity and the guy just given it it made such a big step down from Q4 to Q1 in just sort of lapping that lower level of activity is that right way to think about it? Right.
I would say that the decline in revenue accelerated as you approach March so that will kind of continue a little bit.
And that same for coil and then hopefully it flattens out in the quarter that we – we continue on kind from the decline in February and more so in March and then flatten out and then start the up tick of activity after that.
All right guys we will good to get a chance to ask a couple on the production side as well.
So thank you both.
Yes.
If you have another one key back up.
Thank you Daniel.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Hi Brad.
Let's talk some more about production services please and maybe its just framing it in terms – if you had to think about 2Q revenue how much of that – how it is comprised between kind of the maintenance through work over versus the work you do facilitating completions how is that mix in Q2? Well I think it's probably around that 50% range still for completion.
But maybe trending down a little bit below the 50% but when you look at the different segments well servicing is probably 25% completion.
And then the others have been in the past more heavily weighted more than 50% weighted to completion and hence they were hit as Stacy talked about a little harder in the first quarter.
So I think it's probably substantial-50 I don't know if it hits well as 40 but I think that's probably the range that you would look at in terms of the percentage revenue that's oriented towards completion work.
And the offshore work in both wireline and coil that tends to pick up in the second and third quarter it's all maintenance oriented type work it's not completion work for the most.
Right.
So that might shift it further.
I guess I'm just wondering we are hearing you would have obviously heard a lot from the service industry already and certainly the E&amp;P's are talking about stepping down their drilling and completion activity a lot into Q.
So I was – maybe I was expecting an even more dramatic shift as we find a baseline in production services but it doesn't sound like that's necessarily as dramatic a shift as we thought that's interesting.
Presumably from a regional standpoint? So you said so the -- Bakken is clearly the weakest in production services and this – we have a vast majority coming from the Eagle Ford is that probably already the case but is that how we should think about where that's coming from in 2Q? Well it various quite a bit within the business lines in well servicing the Bakken is actually is pretty strong whereas places like Louisiana Mississippi have been very soft.
And the Eagle Ford remains strong.
I think in wireline Bakken has been hit hard Oklahoma market hit hard Kansas market hit hard Eagle Ford hit hard and somewhat in the same with coil it somewhat depending on who your specific clients are if you are lucky like well servicing to have the guys that are busy right now then you are busier.
And coil and wire we had some very very good clients and continue to have them as clients.
But they are not obligated to take keep a bunch of rigs and they let them go most – all operators have let go rigs they could afford to let go.
And of course a lot of paid off early term.
But some of those folks are talking about more activity today and we are seeing a little bit more activity.
But I think it's going to be backend loaded in the year there is just more chatter developing now which gives us encouragement potentially for more activity in the third quarter and certainly in the fourth quarter.
Feeling pretty confident about that.
Okay.
All right.
Maybe just one more for me and I'm sorry if it was addressed early in the call and I missed it.
Can you give us some color on pricing declines across the production services businesses that you are seeing the leading hedge if you will? Yes.
I think if you start with well servicing where we put out that rate per hour that was about 8% decline.
I think staying on where you are at the high single digits to – up to 12% maybe 15% depending on location is a range you are going to have outliers but that's a reasonable range.
I think wire and coil both as Stacy mentioned were hit harder than well servicing on pricing and so I think that range was much broader and probably you captured the majority of reductions in the – if he said 20% to 35% price reductions depending on the market and the customer and where that hit.
I might add one thing but I challenge there for us not being in pressure pumping there folks that are offering up bundles of services and kind of throwing in our service for free almost maybe not quite free but very low in order to get the frac pressure pumping work or some combination of services.
So that's gotten a little bit more competitive in this market and the operators want cost reduction and that's a great way to get it and so that's – heard us in a few cases as well.
Understand.
Would you say that – and thank you for the ranges too would you say that those are – is there further pressure currently or latest rates kind of stabilizing maybe at the high end of those ranges or something but is it are we seeing more stability now in quotes or is there further pressure? I think in wire and coil we are seeing – it's still a dog fight don't get me wrong.
But it seems like the brunt of the price declines have been felt.
There maybe modest price declines but we really feel like we are kind of bottoming out there on pricing reduction.
On the well servicing side it's a – we don't know positively that there could be a little bit more pricing there it's still extremely competitive I wouldn't be surprised to see a little more reduction in pricing 5% maybe 10% there by summer time or so if its harder to say.
We are – we just really don't know.
But there is probably more pricing to give there then there are in these other services.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for all that.
I will turn it back.
You bet.
Thank you.
Are there any other questions? Please standby.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to hand the call back over to Stacy for closing comments.
Great.
Well thank you very much for participating on the call.
And we look forward to visiting on the next call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.