Thank you for your patience.
Your teleconference will begin momentarily.
Greetings and welcome to the Pioneer Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Ms.
Anne Pearson of IR.
Thank you Ms.
Pearson.
You may begin.
Thank you Lucania.
And good morning everyone.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy Locke and Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You can find the information for both of these in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today July 30th 2015.
So any time sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance they'll prove to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks should materialize or underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that this conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You'll find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's release.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer President and CEO.
Stacy? Thank you Anne.
And good morning.
Joining me here in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our drilling services segment and Lorne Phillips Chief Financial Officer.
Overall the second quarter was fairly close to our expectation.
Our revenue was a little off a little bit lower.
Rain did play a role.
Good news is we had a lot particularly in the south and in Texas and it did impact all of our businesses.
EBITDA fared a little better than we had thought and our net loss was also little bit better than we had anticipated.
So really not a bad quarter given the market that we are operating in.
Looking at each of our four core businesses in a little bit of detail.
First drilling.
I thought I'd just update you on the transformation of our fleet.
We started this year at 62 rigs.
We sold 27 and then we actually combined another sale yesterday so that's 28.
They've averaged over 1.25 million per rigs.
So we're very pleased with that.
Most were mechanical rigs.
And then we've added the first of our five newly built rigs the first one going to Eagle Ford.
And so at the present time we have 35 marketed rigs in our fleet and they are operating at about 49% utilization today.
So it's still a challenging market.
We are moving our second new built rig and that's the first of three to go to the Permian and the others will be following shortly thereafter.
And then we have our last rig that's a new built that where we transferred that contract to an existing rig AC rig in the Bakken and so we will be marketing that rig.
So year-end we'll have 39 total rigs.
And when you break down the kind of the complexion of those 39 rigs; 16 will be AC walking rigs 14 will be FCR pad rigs eight of which are in Columbia and then we'll have six FCR rigs and three mechanical rigs one of which is top line mechanical rig.
The three mechanical rigs are in South Texas.
As we alluded to in the press release we will continue to market for sale some of our less strategic rigs including a few in Columbia and perhaps a few of the non-pad capable FCR rigs and we are in ongoing discussions on those at the present time.
Now looking geographically where the rigs are today we are really just have five operating regions four of which are in the U.S.
one is in Columbia.
South Texas is where we have our greatest concentration of rigs.
And South Texas we have a 11 rigs; four of those rigs are presently working in addition to the four working we have one earning not working which will move into a term the contract in mid-August.
In the Bakken we have eight rigs; two are actually working five more are earning not working and four of the five well are up for renewal in the first quarter of '16.
Those are all very high quality top performing rigs in the Bakken.
One of those five earning not working is where we place the two year term that we had on the last new build the December new build.
So that's going to continue working.
And also in that negotiation all the other new builds are three year term.
That was a two year term.
That was a two year term but we negotiated a six months extension on two existing.
That’s actually the two rigs that are working there currently.
Extensions on those rigs when they expire in the first quarter and so those will be extended six months each.
So they’ll get it solidly into December.
So we’re in pretty good shape there.
And in the Appalachia that’s our most successful operation division.
Right now we have all four.
Four rigs working.
And we have additional demand in that region.
So we’re exploring that.
In west Texas we have just one of four rigs working but we are delivering our three newly built rigs there under term contracts all three year terms at their rates well in excess of 25 a day.
So those will be beneficial to us.
In Columbia at the present time Ecopetrol let all of our term contracts expire like many of the operators have done here in the U.S.
And so we today have zero of eight rigs working.
But we’ve been awarded one three-year term contract and we think there may be a second rig coming with that.
We bid it as two rigs.
And then we also were in final negotiations on potentially one or two additional rigs that could go back to work in the near term.
Things are looking up a little bit better there.
In addition we have ongoing dialog as I mentioned on prospects to sell some of the other rigs there.
But and then of course we have our last newly built rig that we anticipate we are getting quite a bit of interest in that rig.
We want to do a short term contract on it.
And our preference is to put it in the Eagle Ford and the Permian.
So we’re in discussions on that at the present time.
I think our group drilling group’s been really smart in how they’ve contracted and maneuvered these contracts and it’s helping us quite a bit in this challenging market that we’re in.
In addition the performance in the drilling group has been stellar.
And that’s really in terms of safety rig moves penetration rates downtime and basic engineering of our equipment.
They’ve just done a terrific job.
I’m very proud of what they built and I think they were very well positioned for the recovery when that takes place.
Turning now to the production services segment.
First well servicing continues its best in class performance.
We don’t have the 90% to 100% utilization that we had in 2014 but 73% in the second quarter is still superb.
And still best in class.
Same for hourly rate.
It was down and it's under 600 but it's still the highest average hourly rate in the industry.
And certain clients have pulled back and pricing remains competitive but overall we are very well positioned with a 121 550 horse power to 600 horse power taller mast rigs that we have.
And I think one of the benefits besides the terrific client base that they have is they were not weighted in completion only about 20% to 25% of the work is completion oriented.
So that's been a big benefit.
Looking now to kind of wireline and coiled tubing a little bit of the opposite is there.
It's weighted towards completion 70% to 75% and it's been very hit hard as a result of that.
In wireline the number of jobs performed is down about 50% compared to a year ago.
Pricing is up 30% 40% maybe even a little more in some markets.
Coiled tubing is down 24% or so compared to a year in terms of utilization compared to be in over 50% a year ago.
Pricing there is up as well in the 25% 35% range.
One several things are impacting those business lines.
I think the larger frac players are bundling services.
We have seen this in past slow markets where wireline is frequently lumped in and almost given away in order to generate frac business and we are seeing that again today.
Occasionally you'll even see coil bundled in with frac jobs.
So that a game that is played every time there is a soft cycle and we just have to try to defend it off the best we can.
Surprisingly in addition there are a number of startup companies particularly in wireline but also coil.
I guess private equity money is viewing this as an opportunity to enter the market and play the rebound.
But we've been a little surprised at the number of new entrance into the marketplace.
On the wireline fleet we have a 125 total units.
We've stacked about 40% of those units we've rationalized the number of the district offices.
We've reduced management layers and we've done the same in coiled tubing.
There out of 17 units we have four cold stack units four warm stack units out of the 17.
So we're downsizing I think you can see that in the production service margin as a percent of revenue improving.
I think we've done a great job in decreasing our structure there.
We'll continue to look at that and continue to fine tune that as we move into this third quarter.
We have been hopeful that the second quarter was the bottom but it now looks like maybe the third quarter hopefully will be the bottom but we're certainly in the lower for longer mode -- as we sit here today.
So let me turn the call over to Lorne to give you some more specifics.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
So this morning we reported revenues of a $135 million and adjusted EBITDA up $35.2 million.
If you exclude the impact of impairment charges net of taxes and the evaluation allowances or adjusted net loss was $11 million or $0.17 per share.
The 71.3 million of impairment charges was primarily for the reduction of recurring values of assets associated with our Colombian operations and six of our non-AC electric drilling rigs in our domestic fleet that are not pad capable.
Some other key points to note include the following.
Debt has been reduced by $45 million since January 1st and cash has increased to 62.5 million as of June 30<sup>th</sup> driven partially by cash from the early termination of drilling contracts as well as the sale of rigs that Stacy mentioned earlier.
Despite this increased liquidity to be prudent we are evaluating pursuing an amendment to the credit facility sometime in the second half of this year which would the goal would be to increase the total debt to EBITDA covenant above the four times level it is at today to make sure we have plenty of liquidity.
We have maintained ongoing dialogues with our banks and feel confident that we can secure the amendment if needed.
Early termination revenue is estimated to be a total of $53 million with all but 4.9 million of that to be recognized in 2015 and substantially all those payments have been received as of June 30<sup>th</sup>.
Based on revenue utilization which includes earning not working rigs looking at our U.S.
drilling fleet of 27 rigs we currently have a 100% utilization of our 12 AC drilling rigs and 33% utilization of our FCR rigs.
And by year end 52% of our U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC and 71% will be pad-capable.
Turning now to the business segments.
Production services revenues were 76.5 million down 20% from the prior quarter.
And gross margin was 31% up approximately 260 basis point.
As Stacy mentioned all businesses were impacted by continued pricing and activity declines wire and wire and coil were impacted the most and these declines were partially offset by the cost reduction activities that Stacy discussed.
Well servicing utilization was 73% and that average rate per hour was $595 compared to 79% and $619 per hour in the prior quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 24% down from 33% in the prior quarter.
Overall our completion revenues are estimated in production service to account for 51% of revenues in the second quarter and that compares to 54% in the first quarter.
Some color on that well servicing is more in 20% to 25% completion range while wireline and coil would be the half to that.
And our consolidated basis gets you closer to that 50% range.
Looking at drilling overall segment revenues were $58.6 million down 40% from the prior quarter and the utilization was 63%.
Margin per day was up approximately 1 700 to 12 132 due primarily to payments for early termination of contracts and removal of lower horsepower rigs from our fleet.
If you exclude the benefit of margin from rigs earning but not working our estimated margin per day would have been approximately 8 900.
The $53 million of early termination payments is recognized ratably over the term and their contracts.
We recognized a $11.3 million and $16 million in the first and second quarters of 2015 respectively.
In the third quarter we expect to recognize a $11.7 million of revenue $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
The revenue days from earning not working rigs in the third and fourth quarters are expected to total 513 and 401 respectively.
We’ve 35 rigs on our fleet today with 17 rigs earnings revenues and 13 of those 17 under term contracts.
Of those 13 under term contracts 6 are earning but not working.
The working rigs that are under term the 7 working rigs under term are all in the U.S.
and of those 7 one is up for renewal in the first quarter of 2016 one is up for renewal in the second quarter of 2016 four in the third quarter of 2016 and one expires in early 2018.
But then in addition to that as Stacy mentioned we’ve two rigs that are currently earning but not working that will begin working on term contracts.
One will begin in the third quarter and that term contract will take it through the first quarter of 2016 and other one will begin in the fourth quarter of this year and that contract will take it through the fourth quarter of 2017.
In Columbia revenue was approximately $14.1 million down 29% due to reduced utilization quarter-over-quarter.
Stacy has already discussed Columbia so I’ll move on to our company wide expense items.
G&amp;A expense was $18.4 million down 16% from the prior quarter and for the third quarter we expect this number to be in the $19 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was $38.5 million down from $41.8 million due primarily to the disposition of rigs.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the $37 million to $38 million range in the third quarter.
Interest expense was $5.2 million in the second quarter and in the third quarter we expect that number to increase by approximately half a million as rigs are delivered and as a result the capitalized interest is reduced.
In the second quarter we had capitalized interest of approximately $0.8 million that was related to the construction of new drilling rigs.
We reported an income tax benefit of $2.6 million during the quarter and this number includes a tax benefit related to the impairment which is mostly offset by evaluation allowance against the Columbian tax assets.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency and any other unusual items our effective tax rate would be expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
We currently have a $110 million outstanding on our $350 million revolving credit facility with an additional $21.3 million committed in letters of credit.
Our cash capital expenditures year-to-date are $84 million and for the full year our current guidance is now $160 million to $170 million that full year number includes approximately $110 million in spending for new units.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Stacy.
Thank you Lorne.
Our guidance was noted there in the press release we’re confident there will be a recovery but we just don’t know when at this point I think the picture is a little more platted then it was a month ago it seem like it was kind of in the early phases.
But so we’re going to stay somewhat conservative on our guidance on the drilling side where we see drilling utilization with 49% today we think it can be roughly in that range 46% to 50% utilization average margin per day roughly in line with the second quarter kind of in that 12 to 12.5 per day.
It is being dragged down in the short run by Columbia.
And then on the production service side I think we were projecting a little bit further of a slide in the third quarter.
Revenue down 12% to 16% and a modest pull back in the margin as a percent of revenue say 27% to 29%.
I would say that it's challenging that give that guidance.
It's particularly hard to give that guidance in where this traditionally one of the strongest production service quarters which is a third quarter.
But it is a soft market and there is not a lot of demand there is not a lot of demand in drilling.
And I think that it's building for a definite recovery probably beginning in 2016 if not at the end of the year but it's probably going to be slow and we have got to manage our business as if it's going to be slow and lower for longer and keep our cost structure tight and that's what we intend to do.
So I think we are anticipating a little bit more pain in the third quarter but perhaps that will be the bottom and we can start the modest recovery from there that will hopefully last multi-years but anyway I think that I’ll conclude the prepared remarks and we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Sill with Seaport Global please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning guys.
Puzzled surprise on the margins.
And then you’re guiding conservatively so I understand that.
I am looking at rigs could you give us some sort of a feel as to what’s going on or if there is a spot market on day rates for the rigs.
I have been hearing numbers all over the board and clearly differentiate between FCR and AC rigs but do you guys have any indication where that is right now? Well the data points are limited but we like in the Appalachia I would say the rates I don't want to get too specific but call it North of 20 a day that might not be universal.
Our performance is everything is kind of performance based our performance has been exceptional there and so we might begin a bit of premium.
And the Texas market it's pretty compressed I would say the mechanical top drive FCR pad rigs FCR rigs in general are kind of in that 16 to 17 range not a lot of differentiation and minimal demand.
I don't know the AC market.
We hear its sub 20 in the Texas market but its soft and very little demand out there on rates.
Go ahead I am sorry.
No I was going to see if Brian had something else.
No I just go with what Stacy said we just don't have a lot of data points.
So we have had a few data points suggest that FCR walking rigs and the Texas market are one to $3 000 per day below some of the AC rates that we see but again they are just – there is not a lot of demand and not a lot of bids going out right now.
Okay that's understandable.
And then for the rigs that you guys have signed in Columbia I don't know if you want to give kind of specific rate information but what kind of cash margin do you think the one that's going to work is going to get and if you add a plus one to that what would the margins there be? Well that contract is not signed yet.
It's been awarded but it isn't signed.
I think it will be signed and we are – we think we have more coming but there – the one hasn't – the second one hadn't been awarded yet but we are into we think that it could be coming and in terms of margin it's I don't really want to speculate because we are revamping our cost structure there as well we are probably making more material changes there as I mentioned will probably downsize the operating fleet and I think we will for sure generate positive cash margins but we really are positive what the average margins will be.
There will be less than what we used to give.
We used to give kind of new build type margins in Columbia but the rates are down and we are kind of running our cost down somewhat in line with those but there will be margin compression but we just don't know where it will come out at this point.
I wish I could give you more specific details but we’ll need to operate a little bit before we know where that settles out.
Thank you it was accretive.
The rates I would say that the day rates without getting specific are kind of well above the 30 000 a day type range just to give you a little context.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Stacy specifically given spot pricing that remains weak here it would seem that the cash margins are going to be a bit lower in future quarters so recognizing that you guys don't typically provide guidance on the current quarter I was hoping that maybe you could give us a best guess still possible Q4 cash margin as market conditions kind of basically remain exactly where they are today? Well we have a policy of not really guiding out beyond the next quarter as you might have imagined.
It's because it's challenging and I know you have to put something in your models but I don't really – we will have a little assistance going forward later in the year and in the next year from Columbia I think we are going to go back to work and start contributing again as opposed to be in a drag.
We will have the additional new builds which all of those are at very very solid well north of kind of the 25 a day range.
So good solid day rates and those will help and then I don't see at this point for us at least day rates really going below the 16 kind of thousand a day range I know there is other that are bidding below that out there I don't think we are going to have to go there.
Our safety is stellar our performance down time is stellar.
People will use this and we will put some of these FCR rigs back to work for sure.
We have got clients already saying when things get better we will put those some FCR rigs back to work.
So but there will be lower rates than the expire like the ones that are earning not working or under-term now those will come down.
But we have the new builds offsetting that.
So that's probably a good way of telling you nothing right.
I had to try to sneak it in right? Yes right.
It was worth than that for sure.
Yes.
Okay.
I guess looking at coil tubing utilization remains weak for the not just for you guys but for the industry so as you think about the business do you believe that its core to you guys and how does the potential shift to dissolvable plugs influence your thoughts on future investments into this line of business? Right.
That's a great question.
The dissolvable plug we are watching that.
It doesn't seem to fit every market or every operator but it is competitive risks out there.
So we are watching that and I think we have been very honest about coil it is not lived up to our expectations.
I was extremely excited and we all were excited in 2014.
It performed way better than we had thought.
We have got a solid team now I think if coil can become a viable business our team can make a viable business.
I think the jury is still out there is so much competition out there.
There is some companies pulling and there are new entrances into the market so it's dynamic but it's a challenge business.
There is too much coil and it's expensive there seems to be a little bit of a trend not right now but there was to larger diameter coil well that's expensive as a shorter life and it's as yet to be determined whether that's a viable business model.
So we will just have to see where we’re committed to it we really have a team of people that are top lined and if we have – kind of pull back into some core regions and we are going to continue to work hard at it and then we will evaluate it during the recovery as to whether we feel like it will ever burn the returns that justify it for further growth.
And I don't know the answer to that.
I would say if you had asked me that at the end of the third quarter of 2014 I would have said it looked very promising today I would say it's less certain.
Okay.
Alright.
Thanks for that.
And what – if I could squeeze one more and on your question service guidance the revenue decreased or how much of the revenue decrease as a function of pricing and how much of it is utilization specifically related to well servicing? Well Lorne do you want to take that? Sure.
I would say on the pricing front yes well servicing as we discussed been the most resilient.
It looks like it probably has a few percent decrease probably from Q2 to Q3 that could be coming and I would probably add all our comments on production service that as Stacy said it’s challenging the guide and a month ago probably would have been very different guidance and part of what’s driving our revenue guidance is we have seen some customers here in the last couple of weeks that had plans were ready to do work that just kind of hesitate and cancel and they just kind of push it back having – with the reason being just coil dropping and conserving liquidity.
So it's possible that that is different in August and September but we are guiding based on what we really have been seeing in July and so most of the decrease is activity based.
There is some residual pricing impact that relates mostly to pricing reductions that occurred in the second quarter and just having the full quarter of that roll in for the third.
So I would say most of its activity and a limited amount of pricing.
And let me just add to that little bit when you also look at our wireline business in particular the Bakken is historically been a major area for us and that's just been estimated in terms of rig count from over 200 rigs to sub sub 80 75 and also that is real soft and that was a power house for us.
We were the largest or still are the largest and it just been a resistant – a very important market for us and that's off.
The other thing that I alluded to in my prepared remarks is this bundling from the big three or four out there where we might be doing stage preparation work previously in four to five thousand stage and before that more of six to eight thousand stage pricing some of the bundlers in order to get that pressure pumping at drop rate to a $1 000 $2 000 a stage and they are doing that we just can't compete.
We win business because of our performance.
We perform well but when you get that low on pricing and you can’t blame the operators one bid I would probably do the same thing I am going to take these dicer still plenty good enough and when you get the pricing at that level you will do it and they sometimes are coiled tubing in there so that's very challenging in soft market like this because the pressure pumpers got to work their equipment and they will bundle it up and it just makes it hard for standalone people like us to compete and we don't want to go in the pressure pumping just in order to compete on wireline and perhaps a little coil.
So it's just the dilemma in this type of market.
That will change in the recovery because we will spread it out and it will kind of go back the way it was.
So for now just the basic it's the right size.
Okay.
Thanks for – We are not going to work below cash.
We want to make in all of our businesses we are trying to make cash margins other than short term but we are just starting to go that low.
Alright.
Thanks so much for the color.
I appreciate it.
You bet thank you.
Our next question comes from Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning guys.
Not to labor production services out of the business but given the heavier waiting of the work over business to production can we surmise the revenue decline in work over from Q2 to Q3 should be less severe than the 12% to 16% segment guide? Well no I mean that – well servicing piece of that is that what you are asking? Yes.
Yes I think it's – the decline is probably weighted heavier to wire and coil but in well servicing we do think we are seeing at depth in some of the utility that not – it's still quite resilient and still good numbers.
So I think all three businesses we would put in the same categories having a decline but definitely well servicing less so than the others.
You contemplate stacking anything on the work oversight? Yes.
Do we have any stack yet or yes okay we are already stacking some.
Yes I know it's kind of reason we have been – we are still taking a few newly built units and so one that we are maybe at the point where we needed to do refurbishment we have been stacking those and using the newer equipment which has been really helpful.
But I think we’ll have couple of more units to come and but I think right now we have 10-15 coil stacking units I would say that are unmanned.
Okay.
That's helpful and then looking forward to next year how low can you dial down the CapEx or any initial or any refined thoughts on where you can hit CapEx to next year? Yes I think this year based on our guidance you can see the new built pieces is coming in around 50 million and I would say that next year if we are at the same market you could be looking at 30 million to 40 million in spend.
We are as we should be are looking at everywhere that we can control cost and spending on CapEx.
So that's 30 to 40 would be the right number of use.
Okay.
Great and then maybe one last one in Stacy back over to Columbia I think you had expressed some optimism looking ahead to next year for putting again a larger chunk of the ideal fleet whether it's five total rigs or eight total rigs back to work what's given you that optimism as you said there today? Well it definitely I would say that it is the most likely will not be eight rigs back to work because we would like to divest some of the units there and we are currently marketing and in discussions on some we would like that when we went into Columbia originally our goal was to have kind of three to five rigs in Columbia and due to the primary operator we work for and pressure to put more unit down there we kept adding and so we would like to downsize that footprint more into that three four maybe five units and take the opportunity to sell some of those other units and bring the cash back to the U.S.
and pay down debt in the short run.
And so we anticipate doing that.
So I think you got to remember back to the reasons why we went to Columbia it was there was no oil in the U.S.
and we didn't want all of our business be in natural gas drive business other than we had some vertical wells in the Bakken way back then.
And now we are predominately oil in the U.S.
and that probably isn’t going to change and so we don't need the same size of footprint there and there is ongoing risks and issues in Columbia just like you see from other folks in international broadly speaking.
So we would rather minimize that risk by reducing the footprint and have it less part of our total.
We really want to expand here in the U.S.
where we see some great market opportunity down the road and so I think we need to think about it in terms of three to five rigs in the future.
We are already talking about including potentially two three four rigs back to work now.
[indiscernible] is already kind of back talking a little bit so activity will definitely come back there just like in the U.S.
with a bit of recovery in oil prices.
So we think the market is going to come back and be stronger next year and probably stronger the year after that but we just would have a smaller footprint.
And we are pretty open to all of our alternatives really for Colombia.
Okay.
Guys I appreciate.
That's a helpful background.
You bet.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from John Woodall with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was curious within the drilling side particularly in the U.S.
I was wondering how some of the conversations you have had with customers has been changing lately and what their thought process is as oil prices are falling closure to the $50 level.
Well that's we are having a variety of different types of conversations.
But we are – we have got the new built rigs that we are marketing for that December delivery Brian and his team has had a steady stream of large players coming and viewing that rig and so we think that that's going to market well and go well and we will be able to put that rig back to work and say we are getting quite a bit of interest in any of our other AC pad rigs walking rigs that when they come off term I am confident we are going to be able to put all those back to work.
And then we have already have conversations with clients that use some of our FCR rigs in the past that we will pick some of those back up.
And so and then on the smaller kind of independent market which for us is predominately in South Texas we have been working our mechanical top drive rig and South Texas pretty steady here lately for a variety of independence.
We have already we have got another FCR rig that's non-walking working in South Texas we contracted a walking FCR rig that's going to when it comes off earning not working in August it will go to term contract.
We still have an FCR rig working out in West Texas at one point a few months ago it was almost certain they were going to let the rigs go and downsize their rigs but that rig has performed so well that right now we think it will continue in the future and we are having conversations about going back to work it's just I think that it's like Lorne was saying it’s a little bit on pause right now due to the pull back in oil price but once you get back to kind of where we were a month ago with a little more firm footing on oil being slightly upward slope you are going to see activity come back and I think our rig fleet is going to come back with it for sure.
Alright.
That's extremely helpful.
And then kind of looking towards the cost side obviously in 2Q your margins performed abnormally and looking forward your guidance little bit lower obviously pricing will be down a little bit but how much cost do you think that you can take out of business particularly on the production servicing side? Well that evaluation is ongoing.
We try to stay ahead of the market.
It's tough to do that.
It's but we are kind of in that process again right now and looking at that and I don't really want to give any specific number but we are going to try to defend our margin as a percentage of revenue to the best of our ability and that will take maybe some wage reduction as well as elimination of personnel and maybe a few more stack units and if they – if the until isn’t higher we might go more to cold stack than warm stack some of that type of stuff.
And then in drilling the big unknown there is whether we are going to be able to reduce wage cost there.
We haven't to my surprise so far this year but we are pretty much – our rigs we felt the bread of our decline as Lorne alluded we are very little rolling off for the remainder of the year yet a lot of our peer groups have rigs rolling off in increasing – at an increasing pace and level.
So hopefully at some point we will have a wage reduction.
It makes sense because in order to put these rigs back to work you are going to have to lower your day rate and if you don't bring your wages the wages in the field and drilling are the highest in history and they don't need to be that high.
But little guys like us we can't be a wage reducer or leader we need to follow the big guys and hopefully that as they stack more rigs and are attempting to put them back to work in a recovery they will see the benefit of having those slightly lower wage.
If you could not $500 to $1 000 of daily wage cost out you can retain your margin and bid a little more aggressively.
So that's what we just kind of wait and hope that will happen but it hasn't happened yet.
Alright.
Thank you.
I appreciate the detail.
I will turn it back guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
Right.
Well thank you very much.
We know it's a busy day out there and we appreciate your time and your good questions today and we will look forward to talking about our brighter future shortly we hope.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference; you may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.