Welcome to Pioneer Energy Services' Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Anne Pearson Dennard-Lascar Investor Relations.
Thank you please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Before I turn the call over to Stacy Locke and Lorne Phillips for their formal remarks I have a few of the usual items that we need to cover.
First of all a replay of today's call will be available by webcast and also by telephone replay.
You can find that replay information for both in this morning's news release.
Just as a reminder information reported on this call speaks only as of today October 29th 2015.
So any time-sensitive information may not be accurate at the time of a replay.
Management may make forward-looking statements that are based on beliefs and assumptions and information currently available to them.
While they believe these expectations are reasonable they can give no assurance though proved to be correct.
They are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions described in today's news release and also in recent public filings with the SEC.
So if one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect actual results may differ materially.
Also please note that today's conference call may contain references to non-GAAP measures.
You will find a reconciliation to the GAAP measures in this morning's news release.
So now I would like to turn the call over to Stacy Locke Pioneer's President and CEO.
Stacy.
Thank you Anne.
Good morning appreciate you all joining our call.
Here with me in San Antonio is Brian Tucker President of our drilling services segment Lorne Phillips our Chief Financial Officer.
As you may recall from our second quarter call our guidance regarding the third quarter was fairly negative especially for the Production Services segment but unfortunately it turned out to be fairly accurate as well.
You know we guided Production Services revenue down 12% to 16% and we came in down 13% a little bit more on the favorable end of that guidance.
Our margin as a percent of revenues we guided 27% to 29% and came in at the low end of that range of 27%.
On the drilling services side we got a utilization to be 46% to 50% came in at the high-end at 49% and our margin per day for drilling services we guided 12 to 12.5 and we dropped out of that range at 11 349 a day margin and that was pretty much a 100% attributable to Colombia which is a bit of a good news bad news.
We actually started up two more additional rigs over what we felt at the time of the call and accompanying those start-ups were costs kind of one time up front cost and that kind of hammered our average margin per day in the third quarter.
Diving down into a little more detail in our drilling services segment today we have 38 drilling rigs with one final newly built rig to be delivered before the end of the year.
In our South Texas market we have 10 rigs operating last quarter we had 11 we relocated one of those rigs an AC rig to the Permian but we have three -- these are rigs that are actually working and not earning but working these are working rigs.
We have three rigs working in South Texas today one is an AC rig one of the newer built ones one is an FCR rig and one is a top drive mechanical rig.
In West Texas last quarter we had four rigs as I mentioned we relocated one from South Texas there so that takes you to five rigs and then we have added three newly built rigs into the Permian.
Those were all contracted last year at three year terms at healthy day rates.
So those three are now working there.
So we have a total of four AC rigs out of eight rigs in the Permian working.
The Bakken is essentially unchanged.
We had two of eight rigs working there last quarter.
We have the same working there today.
In the Appalachia also unchanged we had four rigs working out of four and we have continued to have four rig working out of four.
Colombia quite a big improvement there we had no rigs working last quarter and today we have three rigs working two of which are under three year term contracts and one is on a one year term contract.
So when you look at actual working rig utilization we had 31% utilization last quarter at this time of the call and we have 42% today.
So quite a nice improvement there.
When you kind of look at the overall fleet then we have 11 AC rigs working four FCR rigs working three of those down in Colombia and one top drive mechanical for a total of the 16 rigs working.
We continue to market for sale as we have talked about in some of these prior calls certain rigs that we view as less strategic for our long-term future are namely three to four FCR rigs in Colombia and a few of our none walking FCR rigs in the United States.
We are having active dialogues on a number of rigs and we're optimistic we'll culminate some sales at some point here.
Looking now at our Production Services segment just a general comment as I kind of discuss that segment it's been a difficult market in the Production Services with the tremendous fall-off in completion activity.
So what our goal has been is to match costs with the new level of demand.
So we have been downsizing the marketed fleets in each of our three core businesses in the Production Services segment as we go along.
Typically when you kind of figure out where demand is you have got a little bit of a lag to bring your costs in line but we're constantly evaluating that in each of these businesses.
When we look at our well services fleet today we're probably actively marketing about 75% of the rigs in that fleet.
We continue to do very well on a kind of a peer comparative basis.
It's been a more resilient business line for us than some of the others.
But we did take a pretty good hit from the second quarter to the third quarter as we had the oil price pullback this second time there during the summer.
A lot of these operators just pulled in and completion activity in particular went way down.
As an example of the completion activity going down there is quick look at our 24 hour work which typically is 100% completion work.
You know previously six months or a year-ago or maybe closer to nine months or a year-ago we probably would have a given time 8 or 12 rigs working on 24 hour completion work.
Today we have four yesterday we had five but I have seen twos and threes hereof late so that activity is way off not only the 24 hour work but the daylight work is also falling off as well as weekend work.
So operators have cut back they're not spending near the capital that they have previously been spending.
Pricing is down as well slightly only about 3%.
But we do expect these downward trends to continue into the fourth quarter as operators many of which have expressed they have basically about finished up with their 2015 budgets and we expect the holiday kind of seasonality to be a little greater than normal and it to be a pretty rough quarter.
Looking now at our wireline business we're marketing probably a little over 50% or so of our total fleet in wireline effectively.
A lot of that having to with our completion activity it's way off as well which overall activity therefore is off which creates greater pricing pressure so that's you know that puts us in continuous evaluation mode all the time about trying to keep that cost structure aligned with the demand as it changes but it's very very competitive.
We are doing well.
Our activity levels for the marketed fleet are fairly good and we're performing a good service and competition is falling out.
We're seeing people close up go out of business and we have no intentions of doing that so we're going to be one of the last men standing and we think we will build market share as the market starts to recover.
In our coil tubing businesses we’re probably marketing about 60% of our 17 unit fleet there.
I think it was actually stable quarter-over-quarter but it is hard to generate positive free cash flow when our utilization levels are that low as in wireline we continue to evaluate the costs but it's a challenging market but we're doing -- we're performing well.
We've had competitors fallout of that market as well which allows us to pick up new clients.
We continue to perform on the work that we do get extremely well and in all of these businesses including drilling our safety continues to be absolute state -- you know kind of top tier.
Very proud of what the team has accomplished on that front and our overall performance.
With that I would like to turn it over to Lorne to make a few comments about the financials.
Thanks Stacy.
Good morning everyone.
Today we reported revenues of 107.5 million an adjusted EBITDA of $18.8 million.
Excluding the impact of impairment charges our adjusted net loss was $16 million or $0.25 per share.
Production Services revenues were $66.2 million down 13% from the prior quarter and gross margin was 27% down from 31%.
Our well servicing utilization was 62% and average rate per hour was 577 compared to 73% and 595 in the second quarter.
Coil tubing utilization was 25% up just slightly from 24% in the prior quarter.
In drilling we currently have a 100% revenue utilization of our 15 AC rigs and 17% utilization of our FCR rigs in the U.S..
By year-end 52% of our U.S.
drilling fleet will be AC and 68% will be capable of walking drilling revenues of $41.2 million down 30% from the prior quarter and utilization dropped to 49%.
Our margin per day was down approximately 800 to 11 349 again as Stacy said that was primarily due to the impacts from the start-up of three rigs in Colombia.
If you exclude the benefit of margin from rigs earning but not working our margin per day would have been approximately 7200 in the third quarter which compares to approximately 8900 in the prior quarter.
If you also exclude Colombia in the third quarter this number would have been approximately 8900.
We have received notices for $53 million of early termination payments which are recognized ratably over the term of the drilling contract.
We recognized $27.3 million in the first half of 2015 and $11.7 million in the third quarter.
We expect to recognize $9.2 million in the fourth quarter and $4.6 million in early 2016.
Revenue days associated with earning not working rigs in the fourth quarter is expected to be 401 and in the first quarter is expected to be 200.
We have received all of the cash payments associated with the early termination notices.
Today we have 38 drilling rigs in our fleet which includes a new built rig that went to work in early October.
21 rigs are earning revenues and 19 of those are earning them under term contracts.
Of the 19 that are under term contracts three of those are in Colombia and 16 are in the United States of the 16 in the United States 11 rigs are working and five rigs are earning not working.
So let me start with the 11 rigs working in the United States and talk about their term roll-off.
None of those rigs -- none of those 11 are up for renewal this quarter.
Two are up for renewal in the first quarter.
One is up for renewal in the second quarter.
Four in the third quarter and four expire in 2018 of the five rigs in the U.S.
currently earning but not working one expires this quarter but upon completion of that term would move to a new two-year term contract at attractive day rates.
And the remaining four rigs expire in the first quarter.
Also of the five rigs earning not working four are AC and one is FCR.
Colombia revenue was approximately $2.7 million down 81% due to reduced utilization.
Turning now to our company-wide expense items G&amp;A expense was $16.8 million down 8% from the prior quarter and for Q4 we expect this number to be in the 16 million to 16.5 million range.
Depreciation and amortization was $35.3 million down from 38.5 million in the prior quarter due primarily to the disposition of rigs and impairment charges we have taken earlier in the year.
We expect D&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $37 million in the fourth quarter.
Interest expense was 5.5 million in the third quarter and is expected to be approximately $6.2 million in the fourth quarter.
The third quarter interest expense was reduced by approximately $0.7 million of capitalized interest primarily related to the construction of the new drilling rigs.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 27.6% excluding the impact of foreign currency gains or losses in any other unusual items are effective tax rate is expected to be in the 35% to 37% range in future quarters.
We currently have $110 million outstanding on our $300 million revolving credit facility with an additional $17.3 million committed in letters of credit.
During the third quarter we amended our credit facility which reduced facility commitments from $350 million to $300 million while providing relief to the total debt-to-EBITDA covenant beginning this quarter through 2017.
However in the current environment we continue to closely monitor our liquidity and we have maintained ongoing dialogues with our banks and if necessary we feel pursuing a further amendment to the credit facility would be the appropriate next step regarding the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures in the third quarter totaled $46.4 million and year-to-date total $130 million.
For the full year we are lowering our expected spend to approximately $150 million to $160 million.
However $7 million to $10 million of payments on new equipment that we had expected to spend in 2015 we now think will carry over to the first quarter of 2016.
When we look forward CapEx our routine maintenance CapEx levels in 2016 we expect to be in the $30 million to $40 million range.
So that would result in estimated cash spend in 2016 of $40 million to $50 million when including the previously mentioned carryover amount.
With that I'll turn it back over to Stacy for his final comments.
Thanks Lorne.
As we look towards the fourth quarter looking at drilling first there's very little demand for rigs other the highest tier AC rigs.
Those we do have demand for it and we are confident that as those roll-off that we will be able to put those rigs back to work.
We're in a number of conversations at the present time and as you heard me mention previously we do have a mechanical top drive rig working and an FCR rig working and those are working at positive cash margins.
Day rates are low.
There isn't a lot of demand for other rigs but we think that hopefully there will be some in the New Year and at the rates that are being discussed today we can still make positive cash margins.
Just to give you a flavor for the rates out there in the Texas market the mechanical top drive FCR kind of portion of our fleet kind of leading-edge rates are probably 15 000 to 16 500 kind of in that range.
Those contracts that we have currently would fall into that range.
If you were getting demand for those rigs in the north say in Appalachia the Bakken you would probably be up a $1000 a day or so because cost structure is a little higher there.
Maybe 16 - 17.5 but I'll be honest there has been little -- essentially no demand for mechanical FCR rigs in those markets but on the AC front there has been some demand and in the Texas market I would say that the range is probably 16.5 to 18.5 it's definitely come down but it's still positive cash margins.
If you can get at the high end of that range you can make 5000 - 6000 a day margin or more.
In the north where we are getting a little bit more demand those rates we expect to be a little bit higher.
We haven't priced one too much here lately but we have booked some for work up there and we are in discussions.
We're optimistic about the first quarter but those I would probably say fall in the 75 to 95 range.
So there again you can make kind of 5000 - 6000 a day at the high end there.
So definitely positive cash margins across-the-board just not a lot of demand but we hope that will change.
With respect to utilization we have another new build coming in so we're forecasting utilization to be up a bit in the fourth quarter somewhere in the range of 50% to 53% utilization and margin per day kind of in the 10500 to 11 000 per day range.
On the Production Services side that guidance is pretty negative again.
We're probably be viewed negative by you all but it's driven by what we're hearing from many of our operators that they're going to pull in here shortly as we approach the end of the year probably extensions on vacations Thanksgiving Christmas.
Just operators are trying to keep their spending within cash flow and in many cases already spent their 2015 budget money.
So we think it's going to be an abnormally difficult fourth quarter and perhaps a fairly difficult first quarter but hopefully those will be the two more difficult quarters and then we can start a good all improvement in 2016.
But on the Production Services side we're going to guide revenues for the Q4 down 13% to 17%.
I will say it's very difficult to give that guidance but that's the best that we can do.
Margin as a percentage of revenue also we think down slightly kind of in that 23% to 25% range.
So that concludes our prepared remarks and we would be happy to entertain any questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of John Danielle with Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Stacy given just where the [indiscernible] ahead the tough November December just given greater customers slowing down on their spending run out of money and really the potential for lower drilling activity quarter-over-quarter in Q1 do you see a further downside pressure on the day rights if you have to start repricing in Q1? I tend to believe no and I think a lot of it has to with performance.
The reason we're confident we can work our AC rigs is because they have been performing extremely well.
Quite frankly I don't know how many people have mechanical top drive rigs working out there or FCR rigs working.
You know I think we have been able to keep our pricing at a little bit of a competitive advantage just due to the overall drilling performance safety performance and I don't anticipate for us at least that we're going to be seeing much resistance to that range that I provided you.
And we don't really have -- our outlook is probably going to stay the same and improve from this point forward because we have pretty good clarity we have a lot of term contract coverage and we're pretty confident based on the performance of these AC rigs and the confidence that we're kind of hearing from our clients that we're going to continue putting those to work.
So for us I would say we're kind of -- this is where we're stabilizing and it's all upside from here on the drilling front would be my guess.
And I think I know the answer to this question but I will ask it anyways.
You noted that you have added some customers in coil tubing and so when we see customers or customers rather see the incumbents provider shutting down and going out of business do they then expect you to work at the same price that their incumbent providers have been charging as they went out of business? Seems like madness to me.
Well we're trying hard not to work at a negative cash flow so I want to purge our basis -- we're in this business to make money.
We do a great job we're very very safe.
We price at a profit where your challenge is when you can't keep the overall utilization up it makes it hard because you have to carry cost of employees and we have taken some of the employees as well from these companies that have shut down we have kind of cherry picked their very best employees and so no I would say the answer is we don't inspect to price at the level of the company going out of business obviously.
I know you don't but does the customer? You know what I mean are they? No.
They're pretty good.
They want good service and safe service.
We provide that.
So we have been able to maintain our pricing not the pricing they were paying the other guy.
Okay.
And then last one for me and I will let others jump in.
But Lorne can you give us a quick frame work for where you see free cash flow or just cash flow in Q4? Yes.
Well with our guide of 150 to 160 cash spend you inspect that CapEx wise if you use the mid-point there's $250 million so likely we're not guiding on EBITDA but embedded in our guidance is the $9 million of early termination recognition.
We have already received that cash.
So our expectation is we'll draw-down some on our cash balance.
And you know I probably will just leave it at that without getting more granular.
I personally think it's better as you get into Q1 though to your working model in terms of the cash flow.
Yes.
Just keeping in mind that that carryover that we talked about will likely hit in Q1 but obviously it does get better because you -- outside of that carryover we expect to be routine maintenance really probably starting late December or the rig we're building right now should be completed in December.
So we'll be into that routine maintenance before the end of the year and then we just have that carryover of $7 million to $10 million that roles into Q1.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes for from the line of John Woodall with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your questions.
I was just curious when you look at Colombia you had handful moving parts obviously you had the rigs show up late in the quarter the other two rigs.
You had the one that came in in the quarter and then also you had the higher costs.
I was hoping we could get a magnitude of the sense of what the higher costs in particular were and what margins are in relation to Colombia versus the U.S.
I would say that the impact from the start-up of the rigs and really the -- let me back up for a minute.
In July we were mostly demobing rigs that were coming off term and then August no activity and then September we were [indiscernible] some rigs to get them on dayrate at the beginning of this quarter.
So in both cases you hit a little bit.
I would say the impact of all that on the margin level was probably a little more than a million.
And then obviously you gave some color on where 4Q SG&amp;A could come out.
Obviously you had some really good cost reductions this quarter.
I was wondering how much more meat on the bone is there that you can take out into 2016 if this downturn extends for a couple more quarters? Well recognizing that that -- it's extremely fluid right now and we're still working on budgets and so I just want to tell you there's a lot of fluidity to that number.
Obviously we have pulled out as much as we can as fast as we can.
So that the pace and the magnitude of reduction in that number is going to slow down considerably.
There is still some opportunities in costs that we've probably taken out in the third that will roll and help us in the fourth and some costs we're taking out in the fourth in operations and G&amp;A and G&amp;A but that pace is going to slow way down and it -- as Stacy said earlier we're focused on right-sizing our businesses to match the demand levels and so part of it is dependent on how things do play out.
He also asked about kind of margins down in Colombia relative to the U.S.
and you know they should be comparable or even slightly greater than kind of the average margins of the re-priced AC rigs here in the U.S.
They're healthy dayrates in Colombia we need a little run time to verify that but they should be in that range of where we're kind of repricing these AC rigs in the U.S.
That gives you a little more color.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Locke for closing remarks.
Great.
Well we appreciate people joining the call this morning and know it's a busy day out there.
A lot of calls and anyway we'll look forward to visiting with you on the Q4 call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A replay for today' call will be available in today's earnings release.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.