Good day everyone and welcome to the Atwood Oceanics’ Q4 Earnings Call.
(Operator instructions.) Please note this call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn today’s conference over to Senior Vice President and CFO Mr.
Mark Mey.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Priscilla and good morning good afternoon and welcome to Atwood Oceanics’ conference call and webcast to review the company’s operating results for Q4 and year-ended September 30 2014.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and myself Mark Mey Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10(k) and in our other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening comments.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today’s call.
In Q4 our company delivered record revenue and earnings on the back of solid operational performance and excellent cost control.
For the full fiscal year 2014 we achieved our highest revenues and second-best net income levels in our 46-year history due in large part to the growth and transformation of our rig fleet.
Financially Atwood continues to execute at a very high level for our shareholders.
For our employees F2014 was one of our safest years ever.
We lowered our recordable incident rate to a new company low even as we added many new faces to the Atwood team and worked a record number of man hours on our rigs.
Despite the challenges we faced in F2014 with delivering our first two ultra-deepwater drill ships our Operations and Technical Teams responded very well.
Their efforts in resolving equipment and other startup issues ensured that Atwood’s strong reputation for operational excellence has remained intact.
I’m proud of our company’s performance in 2014 and appreciate the hard work and dedication of our employees around the world in making it a successful year.
We realize that 2015 is shaping up to be a challenging year for Atwood and our industry.
As a result we are taking steps to reduce costs and eliminate unnecessary activities wherever possible.
More importantly we recognize that our clients are likely to be even more cost-sensitive due to lower oil prices and reduced CAPEX budgets.
This means that we must raise our performance even further to deliver safe and reliable drilling services that minimize drilling program costs for our clients.
All of us at Atwood are prepared to meet this challenge and improve on our 2014 performance.
Turning now to Q4’s developments we announced our first-ever quarterly dividend in September as a vehicle to return cash to our shareholders on a regular and sustainable basis.
Starting in January Atwood shareholders of record will receive a $0.25 per share cash distribution which works out to a 2.5% to 3.0% yield at current share price levels.
We intend to maintain this level of dividend throughout 2015 subject to our Board’s approval with an aim to grow the dividend in future years.
In operations our biggest achievement in the past quarter was the delivery of the Atwood Achiever at the end of August and the start of its mobilization to northwest Africa in early September.
As I commented on the last call the Achiever left the shipyard in ready-to-drill condition benefiting greatly from the lessons learned on the Atwood Advantage.
The Achiever has already completed two stops on its mobilization and is now headed to Mauritania to complete some final tests before commencing drilling operations.
I visited the Achiever in Singapore in mid-September and I spent time touring the ship and meeting with the crews.
I can attest to the fact that we have assembled a capable and motivated rig team that is eager to begin drilling for our client Cosmos Energy later this quarter.
As a whole our fleet operated at a revenue efficiency of 92% for Q4.
We did experience extended downtime on the Atwood Condor due to a series of unrelated BOP issues that have since been resolved.
Also both the Condor and the Atwood Advantage experienced high loop currents at their Gulf of Mexico drilling locations that limited their ability to operate without inducing stresses on the riser string.
As a result both rigs were on a reduced waiting-on-weather rate for much of the quarter.
The Atwood Hunter returned to service in mid-August for a short program in Equatorial Guinea that is nearing completion in the next two weeks.
Although we executed an excellent startup and have drilled with a very high level of reliability and safety performance the Hunter has been unable to secure follow-on work thus far due to the current downturn in the West Africa market.
As a result we are currently making plans to idle the Hunter once its program is complete.
The rest of our fleet is operating today much as it did in the previous quarter with no major changes in the areas of operation.
Turning now to our projects we announced in last week’s fleet status report that we have delayed the delivery of our two remaining drill ships under construction at the DSME Shipyard – the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer – by six months each.
This was a difficult decision for us.
However with the current market weakness for offshore drilling services expected to persist well into next year we worked with the DSME Shipyard to delay these rigs at a nominal cost to Atwood.
The Atwood Admiral’s new delivery date is the end of September 2015 while the Archer delivery is moved to the end of June 2016.
We will continue to market these two rigs aggressively targeting as a priority those drilling programs that require latest technology drilling capabilities that are not met by the existing ultra-deepwater fleet.
We are planning three noteworthy projects to occur in F2015.
The Atwood Eagle will undergo a special periodic survey; the Atwood Falcon an intermediate survey; and the Atwood Osprey will have its top drive changed out.
These are the only significant projects that we expect to impact the availability of our active rig fleet in F2015.
Mark will provide details on the expected out-of-service times and costs associated with these projects in his prepared remarks.
Turning now to the market the situation and outlook remains similar to last quarter.
Tendering activity for floaters remains subdued and we expect that the current levels of tendering by operators will be insufficient to maintain today’s floater demand once contracts roll off.
Most operators remain over-rigged and as a result sublets of contracted floaters in some cases with day rates subsidized by the operator continue to be the primary source of incremental supply in most floater markets.
This makes it very challenging for new builds to secure attractive initial contracts and for floaters that are nearing their contract end dates to maintain continuous work.
In the ultra-deepwater space we have seen few new tenders and the existing ones have been very competitive with new lows set for day rates for new build drill ships on multi-year programs.
Also since our last earnings call we’ve seen for the first time sixth generation rigs delivered from the shipyard without contracts.
When this occurs it comes at a high cost to the drilling contractor both in terms of out-of-pocket expenses as well as limiting the opportunity to develop a balanced drilling services contract.
This is a situation that Atwood does not want to find itself in and the risk of this occurring was a driver in our decision to delay the deliveries of our two remaining drill ships.
The one bright spot in all of this is that our competitors are increasingly announcing firm plans to cold stack and/or scrap some of their older floaters.
Since these decisions often have knock-on effects on the stated book values of these assets they tend to be announced only after the accounting has been well considered.
We expect that the pace of cold stacking announcements will rise significantly as we move into and through calendar year 2015.
The resulting reduction in the marketed supply of floaters should improve the supply and demand balance and start us on a road to recovery.
Turning now to jack-ups the jack-up segment has held up reasonably well even as day rates and utilization have drifted lower since our last call.
We expect that the uncontracted new build jack-ups that are scheduled to exit the shipyard in 2015 may present a formidable challenge to the supply and demand balance.
Atwood’s marketing team has been focused on securing follow-on work for the Atwood Mako which will conclude its current contract in Thailand near the end of this month.
A lack of suitable opportunities in Thailand in part due to delays in the generating of environmental permits by the government has necessitated that we cast a wider net for the Mako’s next assignment.
We are considering a number of drilling programs in parallel predominantly in the Southeast Asia region but given the short duration remaining on our current contract we are likely to incur some idle time on the Mako in the coming weeks.
This concludes my prepared comments so I’ll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financial numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I will review our Q4 and full-year 2014 financial results comment on our financial position and provide guidance for F1Q and full-year 2015.
Let me begin by highlighting the following Q4 and full-year results: as Rob mentioned record revenues of $323 million and $1.17 billion for the quarter and year ended September 30 2014 respectively; diluted earnings per share of $5.24 and $1.72 for the quarter and the year ended September 30 2014 respectively; net margins of 35% and 29% for the quarter and fiscal year; revenue efficiency of 92% for the quarter and for the fiscal year.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable costs which were $15 million totaled $117 million for the quarter as compared to $129 million for the previous quarter.
$129 million is also net of $23 million in reimbursable costs.
The reduction in contract drilling costs reflects reduced costs on the Condor the Osprey and the Eagle offset by increased costs on the Atwood Achiever which began mobilizing to northwest Africa in early September.
Some of these cost differentials are attributed to the timing of certain maintenance projects but the majority can be considered savings as part of our ongoing focus on costs.
For the fiscal year contract drilling costs totaled $506 million and had reimbursable costs of $56 million.
This is slightly below my prior guidance of $515 million to $525 million for the fiscal year with the variance attributed to the aforementioned reason.
General and administrative costs totaled $13.8 million and $61.5 million for the quarter and year ended September 30 2014 respectively with both results in line with my prior guidance.
Our effective tax rate was 11.2% slightly above the unusually low Q3 effective tax rate of 9.0% and ahead of guidance due to the geographic mix of our pretax income.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $411 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of the final payment on the delivery of the Atwood Achiever and project management and related costs for the other two drill ships under construction during the quarter.
Net debt increased to $1.7 billion as of September 30 with our net debt to capital ratio increasing to 40% up from 34% the previous quarter.
The increase in net debt was attributable to the increase in our revolving credit facility to fund the final payment on the Atwood Achiever.
These year-end credit metrics represent [peak metrics] for Atwood during our multi-year fleet transformation strategy.
We expect our credit metrics to improve each quarter over the next few years.
Let’s now discuss our outlook for 2015 with emphasis on F1Q.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $50 million for F2015 with $20 million to $22 million in Q1.
Contract drilling costs should range between $595 million and $615 million for F2015 and between $160 million and $170 million for Q1.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which are approximately $36 million for 2015 and between $16 million and $20 million for Q1.
The majority of the increase for contract drilling costs is attributable to the increase in operating days in 2015 with the Atwood Advantage and Achiever working for the entire year the Atwood Falcon and Atwood Eagle’s survey costs which I’ll discuss in more detail later partially offset by lower-than-expected costs for the Atwood Hunter due to [forecasted low utilization] in 2015.
Labor and other costs inflation is expected to average around 3% for next year.
The [Bigspick] is also no longer part of our operating fleet for any part of 2015.
Note that the [costs] they share with the blurry date extensions for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer will be expensed during the period of construction delays.
These costs totaling between $2 million and $3 million per rig are included in the above guidance and will impact contract drilling costs in F3Q and F4Q.
Depreciation is estimated at $175 million to $185 million and $45 million for Q1.
G&amp;A expenses should approximate $62 million for the year and $19 million for Q1.
Note that consistent with previous years our Q1 G&amp;A expense is skewed higher than the subsequent three quarters as 2014 incentive compensation is paid and recognized in the quarter.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest should approximate $57 million in [2015] and $14 million for Q1.
We expect our effective tax rate to range between 10% and 12% in 2015.
In summary we expect both EBITDA margins and net margins to increase modestly in 2015 from the previous year.
As to out-of-service days and as Rob mentioned we have three regulatory projects scheduled for F2015 as follows: Atwood Falcon for 13 days around the March/April timeframe for its intermediate survey.
This project is budgeted at $12 million of which $3 million will be capitalized $1 million deferred and $8 million expensed during the quarter.
Atwood Eagle for 21 days also in the March/April timeframe for its regulatory survey for a total of $15 million of which $1 million we expect to defer and amortize over 30 months; the Atwood Osprey for five days in F2Q to change out its stop drive and tensioner for $4 million all of which is capitalized during the year.
As noted in our recent fleet fitness report the Edward Achiever will incur 20 days of zero rate time during its mobilization to northwest Africa.
These will be incurred in F1Q 2015.
Note that we don’t expect any further out of service or zero rate days for the remainder of 2015.
Capital expenditures including maintenance CAPEX and additions to our capital spend inventory and capitalized interest is expected to total $650 million in 2015 of which the Atwood Admiral’s ship drive payments comprise the majority thereof.
The delivery date extensions for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer require us to accelerate a portion of the final installments for each of these two rigs.
These amounts were included in the CAPEX guidance of $650 million.
We intend to spend $160 million of this amount in Q1.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
To conclude let me remind the participants that our contract revenue backlog is currently $2.9 billion with 84% of available days contracted for F2015.
I’ll now turn the call over to Priscilla for questions.
Certainly.
(Operator instructions.) And we’ll take our first question from Dave Wilson at Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen thanks for taking my questions.
Rob I wanted to circle back on the three jack-ups in Southeast Asia with the Mako the one with the most near-term availability.
But thoughts longer-term about keeping that rig and the others in the area since that’s the area thought to be the most affected by the new builds entering the market? I guess from a strategic standpoint how do you think about the rigs in that region longer-term? Good morning Dave.
We obviously like our position in the Southeast Asian market for a lot of reasons principally having to do with the cost structure there and the opportunities to work in a lot of different markets in a relatively small geography.
So as I said in my prepared notes we expect that the Mako at least in the shorter-term likely will stay in the Southeast Asia region even if it has to leave Thailand.
Longer-term I think you raise a good point about concentration in that region and our Marketing Team has taken a good look at that.
We’re going to continue to monitor the developments in the jack space as the new builds come into this market.
If we believe that the Southeast Asia region is becoming more crowded or more competitive to the point where the economics don’t favor that versus some other regions well then we’ll certainly look farther afield.
And we’re obviously prepared to do that with our other two jack-ups outside of the Southeast Asia region.
So it’s something that we’re going to continue to watch as the jack-up market develops in 2015.
Obviously we’ve got good backlog on the other two rigs that are there in Thailand so it’s not as immediate an issue but as we move through 2015 and we get closer to opportunities for renewals on the other two rigs – and depending on where we are with the Mako – it’s certainly possible that we would consider relocating one or more of those rigs outside of the Southeast Asia region.
Okay thanks for that.
And then Mark as an unrelated follow-up regarding costs I kind of missed the percentage increase you mentioned but just around the incremental activity in the market – it’s been softer and then given the slowdown in the industry.
And I wanted to see how much that has translated into kind of less cost pressures.
Have we seen that yet particularly when it comes to the labor inflation? Yes Dave good morning.
You are correct: the largest component of our costs is around labor.
And with the slowdown we’ve certainly seen inflation come down.
If you recall back for the last couple of years I’ve been guiding to the 4% to 5% increase year-on-year.
This year I guided to 3%.
So we’re starting to see some of that benefit which if the cycle continues the way we expect it to that could come down further in [2016].
Okay great thanks for taking my questions.
I’ll turn the call back over.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Rob can you talk about how many ultra-deepwater tenders exist for 2015 right now? I know that I mean it’s clear from the deferral deliveries that you negotiated that it’s thin but apart from what we’ve heard about with Libra can you count them on one hand or what do you see? That’s question one and then also can you talk about the nature of the idling on the Hunter? How warm or cold is that rig going and how quickly? Thanks.
Okay good morning Ian.
Regarding your first question our Marketing Team has prepared an analysis of each of the regions of the world.
And look we see opportunity in each of the regions out there but I think it’s fair to say that certainly less than two hands’ of visible tenders that are out there right now.
I think what we’re expecting to see is some improvement in that as we move into 2015 and through the year.
But as we sit here at the end of 2014 certainly the first half of 2015 looks to be pretty challenging in terms of the number of opportunities that are there.
But I will say that we see opportunities in just about every region.
You mentioned one in your preface and keep in mind we need one opportunity for the Atwood Admiral.
So we’re going to focus on those opportunities that we think make the most sense for a rig that’s got the capability and flexibility of the Atwood Admiral.
That’s where we’ll focus our efforts and we’ll work hard to get that one job that we need for the Admiral.
Regarding the Atwood Hunter this is a situation that is evolving but we had really believed that we would get follow-on work on the Hunter that we started in Equatorial Guinea.
Clearly the market has directionally moved against us from the summer to where we are today and right now as I said we don’t see follow-on work.
So at this point we’re preparing to idle the rig.
Our Marketing Team continues to look for opportunities because obviously the rig is warm and ready to go; and we’ll continue to evaluate those opportunities as we move into the end of this year and then take a perspective on where the market is for the Hunter as we get into the new year.
Okay.
The question I had really was when we look at your cost guidance for next year what does that reflect for the Hunter essentially? Is it cold for most of the year within the framework of your guidance or is that not necessarily the case? Yeah it’s very difficult to budget at a time like this as you can imagine.
So what we’ve done is taken a shot at a 50% utilization for the year – so warm stack for half the year cold stack for half the year.
Okay that’s good.
Thanks Mark.
And I got everything else you said but I missed what you guided on reimbursable revenues and costs for next year if you wouldn’t mind repeating that.
Thanks.
Yes.
I guided for reimbursable revenues of $50 million with $22 million in Q1 and reimbursable costs of $36 million with between $16 million and $20 million in Q1.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Klayton Kovac with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
So on the recent postponements of the new builds would you consider postponing these further? And would DSME Shipyard allow you to? Yeah we certainly don’t want to postpone these rigs any further.
I mean we’re eager to get the rigs out and part of the Atwood fleet but obviously we want to come out of the yard with the proper contract in hand for the reasons I mentioned in my prepared comments.
So postponing it further is not something that we’re focusing on right now.
Obviously as we turn the corner here at the end of the year and get into early 2015 if we still see difficulties in getting proper contracts for the Atwood Admiral in particular we would certainly consider further postponements.
But that’s at this point not Plan A.
Since you asked the question do I think that we could secure an additional postponement if we needed to yes I do.
We’ve got an excellent relationship with the DSME Shipyard.
Obviously we’ve made a big commitment to them with the four ultra-deepwater drill ship orders two of which have now been delivered.
They were very accommodating working with us on this extension.
So again even though we’re not focusing on any further postponements at this time I do think that would be available to Atwood if we needed it.
Okay great thanks.
And just as a follow-up what are you seeing on the subletting side of the floater market? For instance are you seeing more or less E&amp;P operators trying to sublet floaters now versus six months ago per se? Yeah I think this is a big problem with the market is that as I said in my comments the operators by and large are over-rigged.
They’ve signed up for term contracts that they’re now finding they’ve got white space on wells that they thought they would drill they no longer want to drill.
Some of it’s due to CAPEX reasons; some of it’s due to frankly disappointing exploration and/or appraisal results that have occurred really by and large across the industry in 2014.
And so this really becomes the greatest source of competition for rigs trying to roll over and for new builds is that there’s a lot more supply out there than really is apparent if you just look at the working number of rigs and the rigs that are idle.
A lot of these working rigs are actually available and are competing for the incremental well or the incremental drilling program.
So I think we’ve got to work off this sublet overhang and that’s going to be part and parcel of getting us on a road to recovery.
Okay great thanks guys.
I’ll turn it back over.
Thank you.
We’ll go now to Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Yeah thank you and good morning.
Mark I think in your guidance in CAPEX you mentioned Q1 and for the two new builds that are coming online.
I guess my question is in thinking about the delaying of the two new builds did that change the CAPEX schedule for those rigs where they’re still back loaded upon delivery? Yes Greg good morning.
As you’ll recall the third rig the Admiral had a 30/70 payment plan; and the Archer had a 20/80 payment plan.
As part of our negotiations to extend the delivery dates of these two rigs we agreed to pay $50 million of those backend payments by the end of this month November 30.
So $100 million in total for the Admiral and the Archer is included in the $150 million which I guided to earlier.
Okay great.
And then just thinking about I saw that you bumped up the revolver to $1.55 billion.
Are there any terms in the revolver that limit the ability to draw down the revolver based on having employment if those funds were to be used for one of the drill ships? No Greg.
We have absolutely no restrictions in our ability to draw down the revolver whatsoever.
Okay great.
And then just one quick one from me.
You mentioned the 50% utilization for the Hunter.
In thinking about if any guidance in terms of the warm stacking and the cold stacking on a dollar per day basis would be pretty helpful if that’s something that you can provide.
Yes we’ve got to work on this and I’ll guide to between $90 000 and $100 000 per day for warm stacking; and around $10 000 to $12 000 a day for cold stacking.
Okay perfect.
I’ll say thank you very much for the time.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
So I wanted to ask we’ve had a few questions on tenders.
I wanted to parse it out a little bit though.
In terms of kind of slowness looking at next year because I think you sound kind of incrementally maybe more negative than you were during the last call – what portion of that is do you think more of a capital budgeting story by way of people reviewing project economics absent oil price? And what part of your outlook do you think has maybe changed due to changes and what’s happened with [the tape royal] recently? Well if you hear us being more negative on this call it’s because we had to postpone our drill ships.
That was not our plan and we certainly thought we’d have a contract in hand for the Atwood Admiral.
So you need to look no further than that to explain our change in sentiment.
But when it really comes to looking at the demand for next year I think that it’s fair to say a lot of clients are still going through and finalizing their budgets for 2015 but a lot of these decisions may have already been made in terms of what programs are available.
There’s no question that we are going to see both in budgets to be developed as well as adjustments to next year there will be some elasticity between demand for offshore capital expenditures and the price of oil.
I mean we’ve heard a number of E&amp;P operators on their earnings calls talk about adjustment of capital budgets based on commodity prices because effectively that determines the cash flow they’ve got that they can spend to explore and appraise further wells.
So we’re going to see some of that.
It’s really hard for me to separate how much of what you see now is a result versus what was coming anyway but there’s no question that directionally the recent drop in [brent] oil price has not helped matters and that also is a new development from the last call to this one.
Understood.
So just in regard to thinking about the Hunter and some of the fleet what’s the I guess the first direct question is what was the carrying value of the Hunter and is there a thought that there may have to be an impairment there? And then just looking at some of the other slightly older I mean still relatively new but still the older rigs in the Falcon and the Eagle – are they kind of just shielded from the downturn by and large given their location? I know there’s kind of a few questions in there but I’d love to get your thoughts.
Okay.
I’ll let Mark talk about the Hunter after I comment on the Eagle and the Falcon.
Look the Eagle and the Falcon are in a very different place than the Atwood Hunter for a couple of reasons.
One is that they’ve got a good contract backlog on both rigs and so they’re going to be employed well into ’15 and ’16 based on what we’ve currently got under contract.
In addition they’re in a protected market.
I mean the Australian market is a market that requires certain entry qualifications which effectively become entry barriers for those who are in the market.
And Atwood’s been in that market for over 40 years.
We talked about this before but we’ve got a special arrangement with our employees that allows them o operate without the interference of unions.
And clearly that’s an attraction to our clients there.
So I really feel like the Eagle and the Falcon have been in a different place than the Atwood Hunter for quite some time and we’ve talked about this on previous calls.
So we continue to feel good about the Eagle and the Falcon in the Australia market.
We see opportunities to extend both rigs with clients that we’ve got already on the contract schedule.
So we’re hoping that we can add to our backlog as we move into 2015 on those two rigs.
But the challenges on the Hunter are different given that it’s in a really wide fairway of competition in the West Africa market and frankly there are little to no entry barriers for operating in those West African markets.
I’ll turn it back over to Mark now to comment on your accounting question.
Yes Darren.
