Please stand by.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH corporation second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Your lines will be a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question and answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com over telephone at 719-457-0820 or 1-888-203-1112 using conference ID 3624790 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 13 2011.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and will be repeated at the end of our session.
At this time Jonathan McGrain Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications will precede with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to the PHH Corporation’s second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
On the call today are Jerry Selioto President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Messina Chief Operating Officer David Coles Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Luke Hayden Executive Vice President of Mortgage and George Kilroy Executive Vice President of Fleet.
Remarks by our management team will be supplemented by a presentation that is posted on our website at www.phh.com.
The earnings release we issued yesterday may be accessed from our website or you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline at 856-917-7405.
Please note that statements made during this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of the presentation.
We will also be discussing various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pre-tax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for description of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will now turn the call over to Jerry Selito.
Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter earnings call.
I’ll start off with a brief discussion of our strategy and goals for the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
David will then review the highlights of our financial results for the quarter and Luke and George will provide perspective on the Mortgage and Fleet businesses.
Then we’ll take your questions.
But first I’d like to introduce Glenn Messina our new Chief Operating Officer of PHH Corporation.
Glenn joins us with more than 25 years of management experience including the past 17 at GE with his leadership roles included serving as CEO and before that CFO of their Mortgage Services businesses as well as CFO of their Equipment Services business.
Glenn’s focus will be on operational excellence building upon the progress we made last year in process improvements increasing productivity and reducing expenses while delivering excellent customer service.
This aligns with our strategy to be the most efficient provider of process management services in the Mortgage and Fleets businesses delivering the highest quality and service to our business partners.
With Glenn on our team I’ll be able to focus more of my time and energy on the company’s strategic direction.
As you know we’re navigating through uncertain times in the mortgage space.
We continue to refine our fleet strategy by strengthening our product offerings and increasing our market focus.
Our goal remains to drive consistent earnings growth through the cycle leveraging the unique combined franchise value of both businesses.
Welcome Glenn.
Thank you Jerry.
I’m very pleased to be part of the PHH team.
Both of our businesses are built on solid foundations and have tremendous opportunities for growth.
A critical focus of mine will be operationalizing the key initiatives to achieve that growth while building and maintaining a culture of operational excellence based on Six Sigma best practices.
I’m already working closely with Luke George and their teams and over the coming months I look forward to meeting and hearing from our investors.
Thanks again.
Thanks Glenn.
To state the obvious the first of 2011 has been an interesting time in the mortgage industry.
Origination volumes were down and the total market looks like it will come in between $900 billion and millions in the year.
And when demand is down margins are under pressure.
Our mortgage market share which is based on closings declined from 4.3% in the first quarter of 2011 to 3.7% in the second quarter.
We expect that this decline and despite it we remain committed to our full year market share goal of 5%.
Luke will provide additional perspective on our plan to achieve our goal in a moment.
Our focus in the mortgage has been on expense control while continuing to work with our partners to drive profitable volumes.
As expected increased regulatory oversight is driving costs up on the servicing side of the industry.
We expect our servicing cost per loan to increase presently 5% to 7% as a result.
Fleet continues to deliver strong earnings and is a key contributor to the company’s results with segment profit of $19 million up from $13 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Results were driven by strong growth in the fee-based revenue.
We expect to continue to grow the Fleet business and its contribution to earnings through new client signings and a sustained effort to increase profitable business across multiple market segments.
I’m frequently asked about the benefits of a combined Fleet and Mortgage business.
It’s during times like this when the earnings from the Mortgage business are under pressure that the steady earnings of Fleet help offset the volatility of Mortgage earnings.
Our goal is to continue to grow fleet profits and its contribution to our total earnings.
We have a unique business model and an incredible franchise in both business segments that when executed well will allow us to outperform the markets.
Our clients view us as product and process experts and look towards the design operate and optimize solutions that integrates seamlessly with their operations and from high quality service.
We’ve remained focused on building sustainable businesses that deliver low to mid-teens returns through the cycle and that can compete effectively across a variety of economic and market conditions.
We continue to grow our Mortgage Servicing portfolio the key driver of earnings in the Mortgage business while increasing earnings and the less capital-intensive Fleet business challenging markets where opportunities are bound and creative and talented people thrive.
Despite the challenges that presents I’m enthusiastic about our prospects.
Our pipeline of new PLF clients has never been stronger.
Our Servicing portfolio continues to grow and Fleet is firing on all cylinders.
With that I’ll turn the call over to David for detailed perspective around our financial results.
David? Thank you Jerry and good morning to everyone.
I’ll now take a few minutes to review the results for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis the net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the quarter stood at $41 million or $0.73 per share.
Core earnings off the tax were $29 million or $0.50 per share.
On the mortgage production side IRLCs was $7.5 billion compared to $8.4 billion in the second quarter of last year.
On the Servicing side we continue to build our Mortgage Servicing portfolio which increased to $174 billion this quarter up from a $156 billion at the end of the prior year quarter and a $171 billion at the end of the prior quarter.
In terms of credit trends delinquency rates in our Servicing portfolio were relatively steady in the quarter with 30-day plus and 60-day plus delinquencies up and 90-day plus down from the end of the first quarter.
All of these metrics which are detailed on slide 10 of the Investor Presentation remain below the levels at the end of 2010.
Foreclosure costs were $24 million for the second quarter of 2011 versus $20 million in the prior year quarter and we expect that it will remain at an elevated level for at least the balance of 2011 driven by agency reviews.
The vast majority of these repurchase request relate to a 2005 through 2008 originations.
On an absolute dollar basis the UPB at loans in foreclosure and OREO in our servicing portfolio declined during the quarter from $3.9 billion to $3.7 billion.
Given the relatively weak demand that we see in the mortgage market we continue to aggressively manage our headcount while improving customer satisfaction.
On the first quarter call we reported year-to-date reductions in mortgage production staffing of nearly 600 FTEs.
Year-to-date through June 30 our mortgage production staffing is down 924 FTEs inclusive of 169 staffs that were eliminated as a result of the STARS joint venture transaction.
Company-wide our FTEs are down over 10% from year-end 2010 reflecting investments we have made in sales personnel to drive our organic sales initiatives investments in mortgage servicing personnel to proactively conform to anticipated heightened standards in loan servicing and foreclosure practices and growth in our Fleet support staff.
We have also added resources in certain of our corporate functions including risk management.
I wanted also to discuss our capital and liquidity positions which remains strong as the result of several transactions we completed during the quarter.
At the end of the quarter we held $212 million in cash and cash equivalents and $530 million of revolving credit facility was undrawn except the $16 million of LCs.
At this point we believe that we are appropriately capitalized given the growth plans of the businesses regulatory uncertainties facing the mortgage business and that business had inherent volatility.
And now Luke will provide some commentary on the Mortgage business.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
The first half of 2011 has been a tough environment for mortgage businesses.
We faced industry originations volume to decline 30% from 2010.
As Jerry mentioned we declined in our market share in the second quarter based on closings.
We believe the first quarter share reflected the closing of the disproportionately large overhang of fourth quarter 2010 applications volume relative to our competitors.
While we cannot control the overall size of the market or the margins offers there are things we can control.
First we can manage the share of the market we take.
We have launched initiatives to deepen the penetration of selected large PLS clients through a financial advisor outreach campaign we refer to as boots on the ground.
We supported this initiative with refinements in loan processing that have led to significant increases and customer satisfaction scores.
I am pleased to report three of our top four PLS clients have exhibited year-over-year growth.
Historically lower industry originations have led to an increase in Mortgage outsourcing opportunities and this year is no exception.
Our pipeline of potential PLS clients is strong.
We launched our newest PLS client Barclays late in the second quarter and other new PLS clients should come on-stream this quarter and next.
We remain disciplined in our pricing approach to the correspondent lending channel where margins have compressed significantly and we have shifted our resource allocation accordingly.
Our mix of correspondent originations declined from 39% in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 28% in the second quarter of 2011 reflecting the lower profit opportunity and our disciplined approach to pricing.
These actions have driven second quarter application volume growth of 40% versus the first quarter while the MBA index was up only 10%.
Some of our largest competitors reported quarter-over-quarter application growth of only 7% to 8%.
Based on this we expect meaningful share growth in the third quarter relative to our competitors and we remain committed to achieving our full year market share goal of 5%.
The second thing we can control is our expense base.
As David mentioned we are aggressively managing our headcount to make sure we are properly staffed to meet the opportunities presented.
The majority of our staff reductions occurred on the production side of the business.
We continue to achieve one of the best servicing replenishment rates in the industry driven by our market share growth and lower prepayments on our servicing portfolio.
Unlike most of our competitors our portfolio grew by approximately $3 billion in the second quarter and $7.6 billion in the first half of the year.
Our weighted average mortgage coupon in the servicing book has declined to slightly less than 4.8% an historic low for PHH.
Our quarterly prepayments average 10% as compared to the 12% life time prepayment assumption used in the servicing valuation model.
We have reviewed the consent orders executed by 14 of our competitors related to mortgage servicing and foreclosure processing activities.
While PHH is not a party to any of these agreements we believe specific aspect of these agreements embody the evolving servicing standards.
We have launched an initiative to conform to these new standards.
As Jerry said earlier we expect the adoption of these standards will modestly increase our servicing expenses.
That said PHH continues to have one of the highest quality servicing books in the industry.
Now I will turn it over to George.
Thanks Luke.
Good morning.
As Jerry said the Fleet business is ahead of last year and we feel we are on target to meet our 2011 goals.
Our focus continues to be on outstanding customer service for our clients and their drivers gaining market share in the US and Canada in growing our Truck business.
Our quarterly unit drivers reflect the results of our continued focus on Fleet Management Services with strong growth in service unit counts in maintenance service cards fuel cards and accident management vehicles for the three and six months ended in June.
Additionally we are starting to see some favorable indicators in new markets we are exploring such as Fleet Services for state and local government.
As you can imagine most of our corporate clients are feeling the impact of an economy that continues to struggle and as a consequence our relying on PHH to continue to execute on our cost savings and productivity enhancing programs as well as to introduce new solutions.
This has provided opportunities in areas that have not traditionally utilized outsourced fleet management solutions and we intend to continue to capitalize on this need.
Our new client sales pipeline is very robust in the US and in Canada and we expect to have decisions from a number of prospective clients in the next 60-days that will continue to grow our service unit count.
Our client retention has been the most successful since 2006.
We are confident that this will also continue.
Remember that 97% of our lease portfolio is open-end leases and we do not take residual risk.
However the vehicle that we have sold for our account in both this business and our Truck business have resulted in increased re-marketing gains due to a very strong used vehicle market.
Speaking of trucks last year we told you we were refocusing our attention on our fair market value heavy truck business which as you recall is this indication business.
As a result we are ahead of our goals in trucks for the first half of this year and expect to meet or exceed our goals for the full year.
It’s also worth mentioning that PHH bridge funding plan has been very successful and we believe is the most robust in the fleet management industry.
This year we have more than sufficient capacity not only for our current requirements but also for our plan growth.
We’ve been very pleased with the market reaction to our offerings and with the ultimate execution.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Jerry.
Thank you George.
And with that we are ready to take your questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) We’ll hear first from Bose George with KBW.
Hey good morning and good to see strong operating earnings this quarter.
I had a couple of questions.
First on the headcount reduction.
You guys mentioned that headcount reduction continued through June.
So can we expect to see more benefits on the expense side in the back half of the year related to that? Yes as you start to see the full year if there is headcount reductions.
Okay great and switching to the gain on sales that was up very nicely for the quarter and it looks like the benefit there came from that net reductions to the gain on sale number and I was wondering if there are any unusual items there or is this kind of a gain on sale margin level that looks reasonable for the third quarter? No George there actually are some non-frequent individual transactions most notably the scratching dent sales that produced an $8 million gain and that’s in the 82 basis point reduction to the total margin number that’s presented in the investor presentation.
Okay so if I pull out that $8 million number then it becomes pretty normalized? Yes I think you need to put on a little more than that.
We actually had another small transaction I’d say more or like $10 million to $12 million.
Okay great and then just switching to the servicing side that you guys mentioned is 5% to 7% increase in servicing expenses.
Is that already incorporated in your MSR mark? It is.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
I’ll come back on.
We’ll move next to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
This is Kevin Bartner filling in for Paul Miller.
He had stepped out for a moment.
I wonder if you can get a little bit of color around the market share goal of 5% by the year-end from the 3.7%.
Is there is something that you’ve seen in the pipeline that really push it and you mentioned more contracts coming on board but can you give us a little more color around that and pay outs? Sure this is Luke.
Basically we have a big focus on increasing our penetration in the financial advisor business and our PLS clients and that’s paying dividend at this point.
We also have contracts coming on stream.
I would also point to the fact that we believe the total size of the market is probably lower than what most industry analysts felt today.
Would you think that’s a market going forward to be in line with what MBA is pushing out there and you can get familiar more than on that just because refi really low like that refi burnout and how we are looking to that? We actually think that we are estimating the size of the second quarter originations to be $260 billion.
Most analysts have estimated that to be somewhere between $300 million and $325 million.
So we think the actual numbers are going to be south of the MBA expectations.
Just on agency perspectives or? No total market size.
Total market.
Okay and then also on the gain on sale margin the 159 are you seeing continued price competition there.
I notice that the pricing margin came down just a bit but not as much as what we expected heavy competition for pricing.
Do you see that coming down further or is that pretty much stabilized and your views? I would point to say we think the margins are relatively stable at this point in time lower than we’d like but stable.
One of the things that we are seeing in the market is we have mentioned early on and Luke mentioned in his comments the price compression that we are seeing in the correspondent channel that’s beginning to abate somewhat.
So we really seeing we saw a slight pickup in pricing margin and we really don’t expect to see continued significant pressure on the margins going forward.
Okay thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll hear next from Henry Coffey with Stern Agee  Good morning everyone and thanks for sharing so much with us.
A couple of questions one is very just simple.
What was your book value and your changeable book value per share at the end of the June quarter? Jon you want to take that? You can move to your next question.
Give us a minute to calculate that.
We’ll call it out.
Secondly little more complex I’d share this is how previous to this call I would say I’m confused by the change in the fair value assessment of your MSR and maybe you could go over the inputs with this payment fees are running below estimates rates are low and obviously given the current disruption in the markets we are not exactly looking at a refi.
So we have to assume everything’s IQ higher operating costs.
You’ve been running at about what 6.5 to 6.8 basis points.
Can you give us a sense of what the cost adjustment is related I’m assuming to the C&amp;Ds issued to your larger peers.
All the other inputs have either been better or stable.
Henry this is Luke.
The predominant driver of the lower valuation is in fact rates.
So if we take a look at that a $130 million is a scribe to lower to rates.
Embedded in that $130 is a $20 million item that relates to expected increases and servicing expenses on a go forward basis.
So $130 million is really rate-driven and a slight increase in expenses the actual prepayments for the quarter had a value of $29 million and then the new additions had a positive value of roughly $77 million and that gets you to from one balance sheet point to the next balance sheet point.
Does that help.
Yes but which rates were down relative to March 31? So we can get an idea of how to track this going forward.
Sure.
We look at secondary rates and we look at primary rates.
So the secondary rates are changes in the secondary rate for mortgage transactions that was down roughly 25 basis points.
I don’t want to sign in too many notes but I don’t even know what that means.
Be a little more articulate at least everybody knows I’m kind of new to the story.
Okay the rate at which mortgage securities change hands has declined 25 basis points over the quarter to the yield on mortgage-backed securities.
Current coupon mortgage-backed securities declined 25 basis points over the quarter.
There is another that we call the primary rate which reflects the rate that we charge consumers and typically the primary rate is a rate that’s over and above the secondary rate.
When we have declines in the primary secondary spread that’s a negative element for the valuation of servicing rights and we did have such decline in this month of roughly five basis points I believe.
No no.
I’m sorry maybe I’m not being clearing off.
It’s a 25 basis point decline in secondary rates plus a five basis point decline in the primary secondary spread.
And that’s what … Okay I get it now.
That’s helpful thank you.
And then I’ll just going to keep pushing on this.
Your capitalized excess servicing from the second quarter was how much? It was $1.588 billion is my recollection.
I’m saying that from memory.
No no from the mortgage origination company.
That was a $77 million addition.
Okay.
And then a third question before we get back to the book value question.
Regardless of how tough things are you guys are running a portfolio that’s significantly better than the big four or five people in the industry.
You’ve got a sixth place seventh place in the servicing table.
You be at five are running delinquencies that are almost twice what you do.
What role do you see yourself playing either in the special servicing business or the bulk service being or the transfer of servicing voluntary or otherwise for the major five banks.
Is there a role with PHH servicing company in that as someone told me that that X side of your mortgage group is actually fairly involved with Fannie Mae’s efforts on this fronts.
I was wondering if you could see that as a – quantify that as a strategic opportunity or is that just… Henry this is Jerry.
It’s obviously an opportunity for us and it’s something that we are looking at.
I think you know the press has stated that BOA really had to downsize its servicing portfolio and that’s an opportunity that we are looking at.
We are as you noted I mean our servicing portfolios are the most salaried in the industry.
We think we do a very good job on the servicing side of the business.
So it is definitely an opportunity.
In terms of whether or not we are looking at specialty servicing opportunities that’s not one of our focuses now.
It is something we are exploring and looking into but we do see some opportunities in the sub-servicing of the business.
You could see yourself stepping in as sub-servicer not necessarily buying assets but earning the same returns you do on your existing portfolio? That’s correct.
We see ourselves as a sub-servicer and not so much in buying servicing but as a sub-servicer.
We just don’t feel a need at this point in time to buy servicing but we certainly is sub-servicer.
Can you put any numbers to that for us or? At this time it’s really kind of speculation.
I can’t put a specific number.
I can just say that we are looking at opportunities.
If those opportunities materialize we’ll make announcements.
And then you can email me the book value stuff maybe we should get on with the Q&amp;A.
Yes Jon are you ready or we may be ready with that answer.
Yes I think the question was what is the tangible book value per share and that’s $27.16.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll move to a follow-up question from Bose George.
Hey good morning.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
On credit I noticed it looks like there was no charge on Atrium this quarter.
And do you think the charges there are largely done or is it just kind of lumpiness in the year-over-year numbers are so good for that? I would attribute it to lumpiness.
I don’t think the charges there are largely done.
It’s really going to depend on the timing of defaults relative to premium income that with Atrium.
Okay and then just another credit one.
Can you comment just on incremental repurchase requests during the quarter like where they are trending? We are actually seeing heightened repurchase requests coming from the GFEs.
We think we are going to continue to see that for the remainder of the year.
And actually turns about do you think it’s the sight of their I mean are there vintages that there is still hiding or what’s driving the - I don’t think this magnitude of increase is still is it still going up whatever 25% or any color on that would be great too? My sense Bose is that the – we’ve seen an increase and I expect it to stay at this higher level for the balance of 2011 likely into 2012 as well.
The vast majority of the demands that we get today come from vintage years 2005 to 2008.
Okay and I assume on the private-label side there is still nothing really going on? Okay great thanks.
Thank you Bose.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take another follow-up question from Paul Miller.
I have a follow-up question on the sub-servicing question you mentioned there.
So you mentioned that top thing you can get into that.
I know its speculation right now.
But do you see that’s something where you could just pack business or is it something where maybe you pick up a small servicer that has expertise doing that type of work? No it’s more the former rather than the latter.
I mean we are a servicer we are a major servicer and it’s just something that we complement our existing business.
We have a significant sub-servicing portfolio today.
Right would you go after small and more distressed servicing portfolio? No it’s more on the procurement side of the business.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll move next to Henry Coffey of Stern Agee.
Yes I just think this is a more interesting part of the discussion.
As the market changes and the larger banks start to sort of – I know BOA specifically say they wanted to download their commitment to MSRs.
If you were in – and it sounds like the banks are more interested than selling than sub-servicing is there a mechanism by which you could fund those acquisitions? I know Aquan is working on a pretty interesting transaction on the origination side do you see any of that I don’t want to be in the mortgage business moving towards it? Yeah I think on the latte – I’ll answer the latter first the latter question first.
I mean we are seeing we have a very very strong private-label client back.
I’m sorry we have a very strong backlog and for the private-label clients today.
We are going to be rolling out at some of - over the second half of the year as well as into the first quarter.
The receptivity today I think a lot of lenders given the heightened sensitivity to mortgage servicing in the mortgage production side of the business receptivity to our outsource management proposals are really running very very high.
So we have a robust pipeline or what we believe the best that we’ve ever had for the private-label clients and we are continuing to see interest in that regard.
In terms of – with the first part of your question whether or not we are interested in buying MSR.
Yes because it made the market may head in that direction.
Yeah more and more are inclined to self-service then we are to actually purchase MSR.
I think that that’s right.
So if the right numbers are there we might be an interested purchaser.
But we are really we think better positioned at this point in time on a … That I mentioned the opportunity is big enough that to be the sub-servicer that would probably be a viable option.
That’s correct.
With no further questions in the queue I’ll turn the conference over to you Mr.
Selito for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you very much.
To conclude 2011 has brought new challenges and opportunities.
We are demonstrating our ability to grow our and increase core earnings through this business cycle.
When the economy in the hazy marking eventually returns to a state of normalcy our earnings will benefit from the work we are doing today to build our servicing portfolio grow our Fleet business on a capital efficient basis and manage expenses.
We look forward to continuing to drive earnings through improved efficiency and enhanced customer satisfaction which will position us to deliver sustainable attractive returns to our shareholders throughout the business cycle.
Thank you for your continued interest and support.
This concludes the PHH Corporation second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com or by dialing 719-457-0820 or 1-888-203-1112 using conference ID 3624790.
It will be archived until August 13 2011.
You may now disconnect.