Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the Company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay may be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using Conference Id 1282635 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 17 2013.
This access information is also described in the Company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Anthony.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our first quarter 2013 investor presentation of supplemental schedules which is posted in the investor section of our website at <a href="http://www.phh.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.phh.com</u></a> under webcasts and presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and risk factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investors’ section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investor section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings pretax core earnings after-tax and core earnings per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH’s senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the first quarter and our strategic objectives and Rob will review our financial results after that we will take questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
Our financial performance in the first quarter was consistent with our expectation for the business relative interest rate movement and with the framework we discussed on the fourth quarter call.
That framework call for interest rates moving higher origination margins trending lower origination volume following the seasonality of the home purchase market lower mortgage quality related cost and over the long-term slower repayment fees for our home servicing.
Additionally we stated we will continue to emphasize our core strategic priorities which are disciplined growth in our franchise platforms operational excellence and unwavering commitment to customer service and prioritization of liquidity cash flow and deleveraging.
Our fleet business continue to demonstrate steady profit and cash flow.
Our mortgage production segment continue to operate profitably but experience a decline in margins and volumes as mortgage rates edge up.
Mortgage total loan margin at 372 basis points were similar to our margins in the first half of 2012 and still at a historically wide level.
We are pleased with total loan margin performance and we continue to see pricing discipline in the retail markets.
However as expected price competition in the corresponding market continue to adversely effect total loan margin and contributed to lower production from that channel.
Mortgage origination volumes were in line with our strategy seasonal expectations and a rising interest rate environment of the first quarter.
Interest rate lock commitments were below first quarter of 2012 primarily due to 51% reduction loss volumes from our corresponding channel.
Additionally we saw a reduction in non- HARP related refi lock volume and a mixed shift to more clients invested locks.
In our mortgage servicing segment we saw an improvement in core earnings in the first quarter of 2012 and in the sequential quarter primarily due to a reduction in mortgage quality related costs offset impart by lower servicing fees and higher MSR amortization.
Segment core earnings continue to be in loss position due to record high in MSR amortization levels high payoff foreclosure OREO and mortgage quality related costs.
We continue to make progress in executing our four strategic priorities.
Regarding disciplined growth of our franchise platforms retail applications remain robust and we are seeing strong growth in purchase applications from both our PLS and real estate channels.
In 2012 we made significant investments in our real estate channel in preparation for renewed growth in the home purchase market and we are seeing the benefits through this sequential home purchase application growth in our real estate channel.
We are also seeing growth in HARP related applications as continued solicitation of our portfolio has driven greater volume.
HARP originations constituted 10% of first quarter volume up 5% in the previous quarter contributing approximately 23 basis points through our price and margin.
I am pleased to announce that we have executed the renewal of our KeyBanc relationship through 2016 and we launched our private label arrangement with HSBC this week.
We have assumed approximately $47 billion of sub-servicing UPB from HSBC and we have commenced loan origination activity.
Once fully ramp HSBC is expected to be among our top private label client.
Our fleet business had another solid quarter delivering $21 million segment profit.
On our last earnings call we mentioned that some of our fleet customers had expressed hesitation in making new vehicle orders due to lingering economic concerns and this continues to be the case for some degree.
Nonetheless we are able to grow our net investment and leases and maintain services and accident management average units over the fourth-quarter level.
Regarding operational excellence we continue to focus on driving down cost by improving process processes and elimination rework and we continue to see reduction in our origination defect rates.
We are on track to close out GSE repurchase requests relating to the backlog of delinquent and defaulted loans for 2008 and prior books of business by the end of this year.
Repurchase request continue to trend out as have our mortgage quality related costs.
We also intend to scale our mortgage production cost to be consistent with volumes if we foresee a sustained decline in demand.
Maintaining workforce scalability is part of managing our business cyclicality and we are prepared to make the necessary changes to drive lower production cost and improve productivity.
However we will consider both short and long-term cyclicality as we manage production cost.
For example during the first quarter we carried excess origination capacity in preparation for the spring home buying season and the launch of our PLS arrangement with HSBC.
During the first quarter we executed strategic outsourcing range with IBM for IT Infrastructure management and application development services.
This arrangement should accelerate technology advancement improve governance and control and reduce IT Infrastructure cost and technology related risk.
Regarding liquidity cash flow and deleveraging our unrestricted cash balance at the end of the quarter was $927 million compared to $829 million at the end of 2012.
We are maintaining this cash position not only to fund our general working capital needs but also for contingencies to restructure the mature line of our unsecured debt deleverage and lower our cost to capital.
Additionally I am pleased to report that Standard &amp; Poor’s and Moody’s have taken us off the negative outlook and Standard &amp; Poor’s confirmed our above average mortgage originator rating.
With respect to the New Jersey Attorney General and Multistate Mortgage Committee regulatory matters that we previously disclosed we have no material updates to report at this time.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the first quarter 2013 was $52 million or $0.90 per basic share which included $0.82 million pre-tax positive mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset primarily driven by a 31 basis point increase in mortgage rates partially offset by $16 million in pre-tax MSR hedge losses.
After-tax core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark was $12 million or $0.21 per share in the first quarter.
Pre-tax core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was a loss of $3 million for the first quarter down from $45 million in pre-tax core earnings in the fourth quarter of last year.
Mortgage servicing pre-tax core earnings equaled a loss of $48 million an improvement of $6 million versus the prior quarter due to continued declines in quality related costs.
Mortgage production pre-tax core earnings totaled $45 million a decline of $54 million from the fourth quarter primarily due to a 34 basis point drop in mortgage loan margins and a $1.2 billion decrease in interest rate lock commitments expected to close.
The margin decline was consistent with the trends we discussed on our fourth quarter call and interest rate locks were lower due to both seasonal factors and a greater portion of our first quarter production done on a fee-for-service basis.
Fee-for-service loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet therefore no gain on sale as recognized and our fee-based revenues are recognized at the time of closing.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of a $182 billion was down 2% from the first quarter of 2012.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled a $137 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter was down 90% in the first quarter 2012 primarily due to replenishment rate below a 100%.
Our replenishment rate was influenced by the scaling back of our correspondent channel higher pre-payment rates and a larger percentage of fee-for-service production.
We anticipate returning to a replenishment rate in excess of 100% in 2013 with the addition of HSBC a greater than 100% replenishment rate should coincide with growth and our capitalized loan servicing portfolio.
Our subservicing portfolio totaled $43 billion up 31% from the first quarter of 2012 and since the end of the first quarter has more than doubled with the assumption of approximately $47 billion in the UPB from HSBC.
Subservicing is a higher ROE less capital intensive business.
The credit quality of our capitalized servicing portfolio remains strong as our delinquency rate at the end of the first quarter excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 2.81% down from 3.15% at year-end 2012.
A high credit quality portfolio helps to keep servicing cost down and service quality level high.
We continue to make progress in clearing the backlog of GSE repurchases requests.
We recorded $15 million in repurchase and foreclosure related charges during the first quarter our lowest level since the first quarter of 2011.
Our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve at quarter-end was $194 million up slightly from $191 million at the end of last quarter.
We also have updated our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request.
This estimate increased slightly to $45 million our estimate of reasonably possible losses continues to assume that repurchased demands remain at elevated levels through the end of the 2013 that our success rate in defending against claims is lower than what we have historically experienced and that the company will incur increased foreclosure related cost that are not expected to be reimbursed pursuant to government mortgage insurance programs.
I want to remind you that the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
At the end of the first quarter we valued our MSR at 80 basis points of capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 2.7 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up some 73 basis points and 2.4 times respectively at the end of the fourth quarter but down some 87 basis points and 2.9 times at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
The sequential quarter valuation increase was primarily driven by an increase in mortgage rates.
Our Fleet business continued to provide consistent segment profit and operating cash flow in the quarter.
First quarter segment profit for fleet was $21 million up $1 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fleet benefited some higher fee income and an improved cost of funds partially offset by lower syndication volume and remarketing gains.
While sales pipeline activity is improving lingering economic uncertainty has lengthened client and prospect decision making cycles.
We continue to add to our liquidity position in the first quarter as our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents increased by $98 million so total of $927 million at quarter end.
The increase in unrestricted cash was primarily result of cash flow from operations and the receipt of cash collateral under derivative edging contracts in our mortgage business.
As of March 31<sup>st</sup> we had no outstanding balances on our revolving credit facilities.
As Glen mentioned earlier we are pleased with our progress in strengthening the balance sheet and our current position allows us flexibility to fund operations plan for contingences and deleverage.
And now I will turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
In the second quarter and second half of 2013 you should expect us to stick to the four strategic priorities we implemented last year.
We are seeing the benefit of positioning our mortgage business in the higher margin retail origination channels.
In April retail margins remained consistent with first quarter levels and we’re seeing retail application volume and home purchase volume outpace the second quarter of last year.
Our mix of client invested volume is running consistent with the first quarter and our half application volume continues to be strong.
To our relationship with HSBC we expect to generate incremental PHH and client invested origination volume.
Servicing revenues should increase new assumed HSBC subservicing as well as from newly created owned and subserviced assets.
Over the next 12 months mortgage quality related costs should continue to decline as we progress through the backlog of delinquent and defaulted loans related to production from the 2008 and prior origination years.
Foreclosure and REO costs are likely to remain high for the rest of the year.
And MSR amortization and payoff related expenses should significantly diminish as interest rates rise.
We will continue to invest in our business to expand our retail presence to enhance our compliance capabilities to meet new regulatory standards to continue to modernize our information systems and to achieve our requisite quality productivity and customer service standard.
We believe these investments can offset the impact of declining margin by eliminating the cost of rework and the effects as well as improve the quality of our product and service offers.
Our focus on liquidity cash flow generation and de-leveraging will continue to be a priority for us.
Our primary liquidity objectives are to achieve our target ratio of unencumbered assets unsecured debt and to lower our average effective interest rate to levels consistent with our current marginal borrowing costs.
This would allow us to reduce unsecured debt interest expense which we have historically allocated to our mortgage producing and servicing segment.
We believe we have positioned PHH well to succeed in a rising rate environment.
Being in both origination and servicing gives us a natural hedge on mortgage business that should play out overtime as interest rates rise.
Rising rates can cause mortgage production margins and volumes to decline but can also have a positive effect on the profitability of our mortgage servicing business.
In such a scenario we would expect an immediate increase in the valuation of our MSR with corresponding improvements in core earning and cash flow to take effect overtime resulting from slower prepayment lower MSR amortization lower pay off related expenses and increased interest income on approximately $3.8 billion of escrow balances.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and enduring commitment.
I also want to thank our customers for their business and confidence in us as a service provider.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Operator?   Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead Hi guys.
This is Jessica Ribner for Paul this morning.
Good morning Jessica.
How are you? Good.
Given you’re close to $1 billion of liquidity do you anticipate or when do you anticipate using it to refinance some of your higher cost debt or prepay your converts? So Jessica as I mentioned just earlier obviously our cash position has to satisfy a number of needs for the business.
One is our working capital needs second is contingencies and then obviously the balance to address deleveraging the business consistent with our strategy.
Obviously we are very sensitive to the high cost of debt as that’s the business has.
Our two converts have an effective accounting interest rate of about 13%.
However as you probably are aware the current trading phase of those securities is well in excess of par and quite frankly right now the two converts are trading at a dollar value premium of close to $240 million over par.
That is pure economic leakage out of the business to extend debts paid in cash today and obviously we’re very sensitive to making sure we have optimum timing and structure and retiring those debt instruments to make sure we’re spending that cash wisely for the benefit of our shareholders.
We said before we’re continuing to work on it and evaluate options but at this point in time we’re not ready to make any predication about when we would in fact make a move to retire any of our debt securities.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go next to Henry Coffey at Sterne Agee.
Mr.
Coffey please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Would you check the mute button? Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Sorry about that.
Good morning everyone.
Can you hear me now?  Good morning Henry.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> When we looked at your application volume and your locks last year 37% of your applications quote ratio of locks to applications which may not be the perfect way of looking at it was 37%.
And this year it was $31%.
Is it fair to look at that correlation and then wonder why locks weren't higher? Maybe you can give us some insight into that one line item why were lock down? Why was there sort of – or maybe this is the wrong way to think about it?  So Henry looking at yeah obviously looking at locks which is – you have a record gain on sales.
So one of the right way is to look at the business.
So first off let’s talk about loss volume and why lock volume itself was down.
The biggest single driver to lock volume being down was correspondent lending which correspondent locks were down 51% from the prior-year and 27% from the prior-quarter.
Now we talked last year about narrowing our focus in correspondent to focus on quality production and we also wanted to make sure we are maximizing opportunity that we have in our retail channel.
Consistent with what we had expected retail margins held correspondent margins declined substantially and quite frankly to match the market leader pricing in the correspondent channel right now would produce the correspondent business that’s breakeven at that and we would be investing $1 on the dollar cash relative to the fair value of the MSR.
That gives us zero margin for error if the interest rates don’t materialize relative to the forward curve.
And we quite frankly don’t think that’s a good trade for our shareholders.
So number one correspondent lock is down.
Number two looking at after locks we really are focusing in on the mix shift that we’re seeing in our PLS channel.
The way we tend to look out at it focusing on PLS specific and looking at PLS locks to apps.
And PLS lock to app was 29% in the fourth quarter down to 23% in the first quarter.
Quite frankly there is a number of things that drive the mix of client invested versus PHH invested loans which is what’s driving that mixed shift.
One is do our clients have balance sheet capacity.
Two do they have do they want to allocate that capacity to mortgages and three which is the ultimate determinant is what is the product selection or product demand from the PLS borrower base or PLS customer base.
Now one of the things that we saw in the first quarter which again is consistent with the interest rate environment that we saw in the first quarter were interest rates backed up and mortgage rate backed up as we did see a significant decline quite frankly a double digit decline in non-HARP related refi applications coming through the PLS channel.
And again we believe that’s consistent with rates backing up.
However consistent with the emphasis that we’ve been putting in with our PLS clients and overall throughout the business we did see very healthy increases and a mix of purchase business and growth of purchase related applications in PLS which again is as result of our positioning the business for a recovery of the purchase market.
So Henry to kind of sum it up yes locks were down biggest driver correspondent there was a mix shift in PLS clients and again that mix shift right now appears to be a reduction in non-HARP related refi activity through the PLS channel.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  This is a second question going back to the cash balance issue.
In your own estimate of that $900 million plus in cash how much of it is really just sitting there as excess cash and how much of it is really cash you want on the sidelines either to run the business or for expected contingencies? So Henry we do manage through a framework whereas we said we’ve got earmarks for the cash in terms of working capital needs.
Obviously amounts we keep in reserve for contingencies for example our reserve balance foreclosure related losses being one of the biggest items in there and obviously a piece that we’re earmarking for that retirement cost.
Henry because those numbers changes throughout the year in the cycle yeah I don’t want to lock the business into a framework here as x dollars for this and y dollars for that it is fairly fluid but consistent with our overall strategy we are built in cash to address the long-term desire to improve and deleverage our business and improve our ratio of unencumbered assets and unsecured debt and to low our borrowing cost to more close to near our current marginal cost of debt.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Great thank you very much (Operator Instructions) We will go next to Bose George at KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Can you just go back to what you said about correspondent again on sale margins in the first quarter? Did you say it was effectively zero and has that improved in the second quarter? So corresponding gain on sales margins for us was not zero it was favorable but those what I said was again because we’ve seen some significant tightening of margins in correspondent we are choosing not to follow one for one pricing changes in the correspondent market.
So we are not matching the market leader and as a result we are seeing a decline in loss volume.
If we did in fact match market leader that would result in a breakeven correspondent business and a cash investment ratio relative to the fair value of MSR of 100% and again that leads to zero margin for error.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
That makes sense.
Then switching to HARP I was just curious what drove the increase? Is it all still from your own portfolio and also does the HSBC subservicing create any HARP opportunity for you? Bose the HARP opportunity is from our portfolio and quite frankly we have been soliciting for HARP now for the better part of 12 months both PHH and our clients because some of the HARP volumes does come through our clients In the case of our PLS channel we are getting better at it and we are seeing our marketing strategies are more effective so we are seeing higher response rates in our HARP solicitation as well as we are improving operating capability in building out our capacity of HARP specialist to deal with that application via as it comes in.
Again relative to mix is still a small percentage of our mix it’s only 10% of our total origination volume and as we said before just given the quality of our portfolio we don’t have a significant portion of HARP loans in our portfolio and that said we are going to continue to solicit it and now as the HARP programs have been extended to the end of 2015 we are just going to agree to push it through all of our channels all of the channels we originate the loans from PLS and Realogy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay but does HSBC provide sort of an incremental opportunity is that something you can work on too? It is there is incremental opportunity.
Obviously we are very sensitive to the compliance aspects of it in terms of in which states follows that opt in for solicitation versus have to opt out for solicitation and we’re working through those details with HSBC as we speak but one of the opportunities that we did see in that relationship was the ability to solicit portfolio for HARP related origination Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
And then just switching to expenses.
This quarter I am wondering just going to next quarter if there is some improvement opportunity in expenses.
I mean were you hurt to some degree just by closings being so much higher than rate locks this quarter? Yeah obviously to your point Bose you have got to manage both application volume and closing volume right here supporting the loan as it goes for the process but yeah during the first quarter we did carry excess capacity and we did it intentionally because we’re launching HSBC and because of the spring home buying season.
In April we are seeing robust application growth and repurchase line growth in excess of what we saw in the second quarter of last year so we think the operation was right sized.
When looking forward consideration of one the closing buying that we had but looking at the app volumes coming down the pipe with the spring buying season in the launch of HSBC we thought the size of the operation was right obviously relative to app volume in the quarter since rates backed up a bit it looked like we were slightly overcapacity but not relative to the trends we are seeing here in the second quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
Good news.
One last question.
You guys changed the capital allocation between the segments and I was just curious what drove that if that signaled anything?  Quiet frankly I would call it – as we go through an annual cycle showing up the capital we allocate between each of the segments and we did that during the first quarter so it was just our annual capital drop.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Okay great.
Thank you.
Anthony?  Now we'll go next to Kevin Barker at Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Kevin.
The res and warrants provisions they came down pretty significantly down to $15 million and you did have some reserve release.
Could you just give us a little additional color on why your reasonable losses came up this quarter where they have been trending down over the last several quarters? Do expect the GSE to be finished with their review of the loan file sometime this year or is that something you probably see bleed into next year? A little more color on that.
Yeah Kevin I am sorry I am sorry I cut you off.
No Just a little more color on that.
Yeah.
Kevin our reasonably loss estimate really covers our entire portfolio.
So it’s Fannie Freddie Ginnie private.
The GSE related loans we continue based on our discussions with the GSE believe that we will be through the backlog of seriously I think to repurchase relate to seriously relate to delinquent defaulted loans for vintage years 2008 and prior.
So trends there have been consistent and similarly on private nothing mere that would give us cause for concern.
Trends there are fairly consistent as well.
What we did see was an uptick related to Ginnie Mae box of business.
The reasonably possible loss provision there is calculated on a macro basis similar to what we do for the GSE related production but with the slight nuance differences for the Ginnie Mae loans.
We actually look at our claims filings success rate and there is obviously a frequency still how many new claims that we expect to be coming down the pipe relating to seriously delinquent defaulted loans and what is the severity related to those loans more of the cost per claim service be and then what is our success rate in terms of claims eligible to be filed.
So as we queue to cleanup the portfolio and work through the backlog of seriously delinquent and defaulted loans in the Ginnie Mae book again related to that 2004 through 2006 vintage; we did see a slight reduction in our claims eligibility rate and that was really the driver I think claims eligible to be filed that was really the slight uptick.
Okay.
Could you talk about the Ginnie Maes a little bit more? Because the bulk of the volume is going to happen between 2009 and 2011.
Were the repurchase claims primarily coming through that or was it going back to the indemnification of the insurance claim? Could you just describe that process and some of the vintage years around the claimants coming from Ginnie Mae? Yeah so yet it’s the claims we found not claims coming from them.
So the claims we file relative to Ginnie Mae obviously there is number of standards that need to met the final claim and as we’ve – and I just say that our success rate on claims filing is in excess of 90%.
So what we’re talking about here is a couple of percentage points changed.
So cabinets more as we look through our claims to be filed making sure that we pick all the appropriate triggers through the originations process or the management process that would result in making a claim or a portion of the claim not eligible to be filed.
And again as we’re cleaning through this the backlog of foreclosed loans relating to the Ginnie Mae books of business ’04 to ’06 we’re seeing a slight uptick not expecting any material deviation or further deterioration from that base of we’re getting through this backlog or we just saw a slight deterioration in clients eligible to filed.
Okay so have you seen a behavioral change from Ginnie Mae? Oh no not at all not at all.
Not at all.
Okay and then could you talk about – on your HARP eligible portfolio how has that changed from what it was a couple of quarters ago? Are you refinancing loans on your current servicing portfolio through HARP or are you also refinancing loans on other servicer’s books? It is primarily our owned servicing book and quite frankly Kevin as I said earlier we are – our proficiency and solicitation and the response rates we’re seeing has consistently trended up throughout last year and we’re seeing very strong response rates now probably consistent with where other people in the industry are at.
And quite frankly we’ve improved our operating processes and capacity as well too.
HARP loans do require specialized expertise and capability.
We are building that throughout the course of 2012 and certainly latter of half 2011.
And quite frankly Kevin we’re just getting better at it.
Okay.
And then could you just talk about the potential for HARP refis going forward within your own servicing book and how far you think you are through? Or how many of the HARP eligible loans do you think you’ve refi-ed already? Could you help us quantify that and see how much more HARP volume you could see on a go-forward basis?  You know right Kevin we’ve estimated before round number about 20% of our portfolio was HARP eligible.
And right now when we look at our we look at the volume that we have to date it constitutes about 10% of our total pipeline.
In terms of how far through we are again from it really is going to depend upon borrower response rates.
But we would expect our HARP volume level at least for the balance for this year to be consistent with what we saw during first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) Over next to Ron Mass at Almitas Capital.
Yes I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the private label repurchase request? I noticed that those private label repurchase request have been trending up while the GSE repurchased requests have been trending down.
Yes Ron so yeah if you look where we were we had $60 million I guess in in terms of dollars and millions at the end of the fourth quarter we had about $64 million in private requests and $68 million at the end of the first quarter.
As we talked about in our fourth quarter call we did see an uptick related at the KeyBanc who is getting through quite frankly a backlog they had never before done a review of their portfolio for potential repurchase claims related to the client invested portion of their book and it really just commenced that process in the fourth quarter.
So the review of those loans continued into the first quarter.
So in terms of the elevated level from Key that trend continued over into the first quarter and in March we saw a slight uptick related to our Merrill Lynch program as well.
We are not alarmed by the trends that we are seeing we think it’s consistent with our contractual provision and quite frankly the biggest the largest percentage of our portfolio continues to be Fannie Freddie invested products and we are very pleased with the level of reduction that we are seeing from there.
Relative to some other industry players who could have private repurchase activity a lot of that is related to subprime or a private label issued mortgage backed securities that was not and is not a big portion.
We didn’t do any subprime number one and private label MBS relative to Jumbo production was just not a big portion of our business and was not a big portion of our remaining servicing portfolio.
Okay.
And one follow-up question.
Given that Fannie Mae mortgage prices have returned back to year-end level would you expect the increase in the capitalization of Mortgage Servicing to be – the increase in the first quarter to be reversed out if mortgage rates stay where they are currently? Clarifying question Ron is increase in mortgage capitalization you are talking about the write up in MSR or actual? Yes the write up in MSR.
So yeah I mean to the extend to that mortgage rate do change you will see the evaluation of the MSR change relative to the change in mortgage interest rate so rates went up in the first quarter.
We saw right up of the asset if rates continue be at lower level in the second quarter you would see the MSR evaluation you will see negative adjustment in the valuation.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And at this time it appears we have no further questions left in the phone queue.
I would like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thank you for everyone for your continued interest in PHH we will talk to you at the end of the second quarter call.
And this concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the Company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 1282635.
It will be archived until May 17 2013.
You may now disconnect.