Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin a question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference id 7283605 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 15 2013.
This access information is also described in the company’s earnings release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Zack.
Good morning.
And welcome to PHH Corporation’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide three of our second quarter 2013 investor presentation of Supplemental Schedules which is posted in the Investor section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts and Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investor section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of Supplemental Schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH’s senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
Glen will discuss the company’s performance in the second quarter and our strategic objectives and Rob will review our financial results after that we will take questions.
I will now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
Over the past year and a half through the execution of our strategic priorities PHH has made significant progress in placing the company in a position of strength to deal with the cyclical and dynamic nature of the mortgage industry.
In the second quarter our financial performance reflected the impact of a rising interest rate environment which drove an increased value of our mortgage servicing rights and negatively impacted our mortgage origination volume.
I’m pleased with the progress the company is making in managing through this transition period to a rising interest rate environment.
We reported our highest level of GAPP earnings in the last 10 quarters and our tangible book value per share increased to over $28 at the end of the second quarter.
Our consolidated core loss in the quarter was primarily due to our mortgage servicing segment where we recorded a charge related to the commutation of the remaining reinsurance contract at Atrium.
Additionally payoffs in our capitalized mortgage servicing portfolio remained high in the second quarter.
Core earnings from mortgage production segment was consistent with first quarter levels while we experienced a 24 basis point reduction in total loan origination margin and a negative impact to our origination volumes as interest rates increased during the quarter we nevertheless experienced higher sequential quarter origination volume levels.
In the second quarter we delivered continued strong progress on our four strategic priorities.
First is disciplined growth in our franchise channels.
Our retail mortgage loan origination channels delivered strong performance during the second quarter with 47% sequential quarter growth in retail purchase applications and 10% sequential quarter growth in retail refinance applications.
Our application volume growth highlights the strength of our real estate channel the benefits of our investment to help our private label clients’ transition to a purchase market and the successful integration and startup of our relationship with HSBC.
We continue to develop our pipeline of potential private label clients.
We believe increased regulation and increasing complexity in the mortgage business will continue to drive financial institutions to evaluate outsourcing as a solution for the mortgage operations.
We are in active discussions with several regional and community banks and wealth management firms who recognize the value of our end-to-end product offering.
We are also seeing incremental subservicing opportunities that could provide additional loan servicing income while requiring a minimal amount of invested capital.
Our fleet business continues to provide us with steady and consistent earnings.
We experience sequential quarter growth of 2% lease and in investment 3% maintenance unit and 5% in accident management unit.
We are encouraged by the sequential quarter growth in lease and investment and service units and continued to see opportunities to drive future growth.
Our second and third strategic priorities are operational excellence and customer service.
We continued to see mortgage loan defects improve and we believe the GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with their repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
In addition customer satisfaction scores continue to improve in the second quarter for several of our PLS real estate and fleet clients.
While we make good progress in this area I believe there is continued room for improvement.
Our fourth priority regards liquidity cash flow and deleveraging.
We ended the second quarter with more than $1 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and our ratio of encumbered assets to unsecured debt improved to nearly three times close to our goal.
We’ve remained cautious with regards to our liquidity in recognition of the cyclical nature of our mortgage business and the volatile nature of the high-yield debt markets.
We are maintaining prudent cash reserves to address our operating needs upcoming debt maturities contingencies related to interest-rate movements fluctuations and the timing of loan repurchase and make whole demands and the potential for future regulatory changes.
Our strong liquidity position also gives us the flexibility to consider a wide range of options to improve our capital structure and diversify our funding sources.
Our key liquidity objectives remain to reduce leverage from unsecured debt extend the maturity latter of our unsecured debt reduce our costs of debt capital and minimize further dilution from our 2017 convertible debt.
In this regard we have successfully negotiated an amendment to the restrictions in our revolving credit agreement that increases our flexibility to repay or refinance our 2016 and 2017 unsecured notes prior to the maturity of our revolver which is in 2015.
We remain committed to execute in our capital structure objectives as market conditions and our liquidity position permit.
With respect to the New Jersey Attorney Journal and multi-state mortgage committee regulatory matters that we have previously disclosed we have no material updates reported at this time.
Recent industry forecast are projecting meaningfully lower mortgage industry volumes due to an expected decline in refinancing activity.
Consistent with this outlook we have seen a decline in refinancing volumes in July.
While total loan margin has improved since quarter end average margins in July were below the average margin for the second quarter.
In light of this we are taking decisive actions to position our mortgage business for the current industry outlook through three key initiatives managing our mortgage origination capacity reengineering our cost structure and attempting to diversify our funding sources for MSRs.
Regarding managing origination capacity we are taking the appropriate actions to lower mortgage production costs to match an expected lower volume environment going forward.
This process includes client level analysis of capacity relative to expected demand and required client service levels.
Assuming mortgage interest rate and our mortgage origination volume remain at current levels we expect our capacity reduction actions will provide at least $35 million annual life cost savings starting in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to adjust our capacity levels to match projected demand as client volumes and service requirements change.
I want to stress that our unwavering commitment to customer service will remain a key strategic priority.
As for reengineering our cost structure we are focused on our operational excellence initiatives.
We believe our defect reduction efforts will ultimately result in a lower level of mortgage quality related cost.
Year-to-date we've incurred $65 million in mortgage quality related costs that we believe will be substantially reduced after we complete processing the backlog of previously delinquent and defaulted loan repurchase requests relating to our pre-2009 originations.
Our operational excellence initiatives are also focused on driving long-term productivity and efficiency improvements through our Lean Six Sigma efforts aggressive vendor management actions discretionary costs action and outsourcing.
Last quarter we announced our outsourcing arrangement for IT infrastructure and development activities with IBM.
The operational and cost benefits to this program are expected to be meaningful and the results to date are consistent with our expectations.
Given our early success with this program we've engaged with other leading outsourcing firms to explore potential opportunities for outsourcing select elements of our business support activities.
In total we expect the annual run rate savings from the successful execution of our productivity and efficiency improvements could be approximately $20 million beginning in the fourth quarter.
Regarding diversify our funding sources for MSRs we continue to explore funding alternatives to reduce our overall cost of funds and our dependence on the high-yield debt markets.
We've identified several potential MSR funding partners with whom we are working to finalize terms for the sale of certain newly created MSRs while PHH remains as subservicer.
Our objectives are to reduce to cash consumption associated with loan origination activities increase the portion of our mortgage servicing earnings that are attributable to fee-based activities and transfer prepayment related risk and responsibility for funding servicer advances to our funding partner.
If successful these efforts could help to enable more capital efficient funding model for PHH.
Any arrangement remains subject to a definitive agreement as well as GSE and board approval.
Lastly as a result of recent rule clarifications issued by the CFPB we are seeking to amend certain private-label contracts and we have already started this process with several of our clients.
We believe this is an opportunity to work in partnership with our clients to address the fundamental changes in the industry and ensure our programs for meeting our mutual regulatory operational and economic objectives.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis net income attributable to PHH Corporation for the second quarter of 2013 was $90 million or $1.58 per basic share which included $155 million pre-tax favorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates during the quarter.
Core earnings which excludes the net MSR mark equal the loss of $2 million on an after-tax basis or $0.03 per share in the second quarter.
The GAAP and core results include a $14 million or $0.24 per share -- basic share after-tax loss related to the termination of our inactive mortgage reinsurance agreement with UGI.
Excluding the loss on the termination of this mortgage reinsurance agreement core earnings per share after tax would have been flat with the first quarter of 2013.
Pre-tax core earnings for the combined mortgage production and servicing segments was a loss of $29 million in the second quarter which includes the $21 million loss on the insurance commutation.
Mortgage production pre-tax core earnings totaled $44 million essentially flat with the $45 million of earnings in the first quarter.
Total loan margins now are 24 basis points to 348 basis points in the second quarter an interest rate lock commitments expected to close rose 9% to $5.4 billion.
The margin decline was primarily driven by rising interest rates while interest rate locks reflected strength in purchase transactions.
Free based closings rose to 47% of total closing from 41% last quarter.
Fee based loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet.
So we do not recognize the gain on sale.
Our fee base revenues are recognized at closing.
Mortgage servicing pre-tax core earnings equal to loss of $73 million compared to our loss of $48 million last quarter.
The $25 million incremental sequential quarter loss was primarily a result of the charge related to the reinsurance commutation and the higher value of payoffs.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $229 billion was up 19% from the second quarter of 2012 principally due to the assumption of subservicing from HSBC during the second quarter of 2013.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled $133 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter was down 3% from the first quarter and 10% from the end of the second quarter 2012.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by our narrowed focus in our correspondent channel higher prepayment rates and a greater portion of mortgage production on a fee-for-service basis.
At the end of the second quarter we valued our MSR at 94 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are up from 80 basis points and 2.7 times respectively at the end of the first quarter and from 78 basis points and 2.6 times at the end of the second quarter 2012.
The sequential quarter valuation increase was primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates and represents the present value of higher expected servicing cash flows in the future.
The delinquency performance of capitalized servicing portfolio remains among the best in the industry and our delinquency rate at the end of the second quarter excluding foreclosure and real estate owned was 3.58% up from 3.15% at the year end 2012.
Excluding the subservicing portfolio assumed during the second quarter the delinquency rate at the end of the second quarter would have been 2.97%.
We continue to make progress in clearing the backlog of GSE repurchase requests and we believe that GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with the repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
Repurchase request continue to trend down as have our mortgage quality related costs.
We recorded $11 million in repurchase and foreclosure related charges during the second quarter down from $15 million in the first quarter and our lowest level since the third quarter of 2010.
Our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve at quarter end was $191 million down slightly from $194 million at the end of last quarter.
As of the second quarter our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request remain unchanged at $45 million.
Our estimate of reasonably possible losses assumes that repurchase demands remain at elevated levels through the end of 2013 that our success rate in defending against claims is lower than what we have historically experienced and that the company will incur increased foreclosure related cost that are not expected to be reimbursed pursuant to government mortgage insurance programs.
As a reminder the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
Our Fleet business had another solid quarter continuing to provide consistent segment profit in the quarter.
Second quarter segment profit for Fleet was $21 million unchanged from the first quarter of 2013.
Fleet benefited from growth in average service units in maintenance service fuel cards and accident management.
While sales pipeline activity for Fleet continues to improve client and prospect decision making cycles have extended reflecting caution with regards to the economy and capital investment.
We continue to add to our liquidity position in the second quarter as our unrestricted cash balance increased by $117 million to a total of $1.44 billion at the end of the second quarter compared to $927 million at the end of the first quarter.
The insurance commutation in the second quarter resulted in the release of $69 million in previously restricted cash $30 million of which was added to unrestricted cash in the second quarter and the balance settling in the third quarter.
Our Atrium Reinsurance subsidiary which had been in runoff since 2009 no longer has any reinsurance agreements in place and accordingly our future results will not be impacted by charges directly related to such reinsurance agreements.
As of June 30th we had no outstanding balances on our revolving credit facilities.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
We believe we are positioning PHH to succeed in rising rate environment and we continue to believe that each of our fleet and mortgage businesses on average three cycles has the potential to achieve low-to-mid teen after-tax ROIs.
Our Fleet business has achieved this target.
We still have work to do to hit that target in our mortgage business.
We believe there are multiple opportunities that could help us achieve mortgages earnings potential including reengineering our cost structure through capacity management productivity and defect reduction actions amendments to certain of our PLS agreements decreases in our cost of unsecured debt allocated to mortgage reduced levels of capital investment from alternative MSR funding strategies a decline in MSR amortization and other prepayment related expenses from slower prepay speed as interest rates rise decreases in mortgage servicing cost as delinquency rates increase and increases in escrow balance interest income.
While some of these opportunities maybe accomplishable in the coming quarters others may take longer to develop and maybe depended upon factors outside of our control such as changes in interest rate.
I want to recognize and thank my colleagues at PHH for the hard work and enduring commitment.
I also want to thank our customers for their business and confidence in us as their service provider.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Hey Glen.
Can you elaborate a little bit on your MSR partners where you’ll give them flow and take the subservicing like what type of fees would you collect from that? And also you’re talking to established partners or like I know some guys have started to own REIT like entities to do this? Good morning Paul.
Regarding pricing as with any of our PLS contracts and pricing matters generally we typically will not disclose our pricing parameters and especially since we’re in discussions right now regarding finalization of terms so I won’t be addressing that here.
With regards to the types of investors we've spoken with these investors tend to be people who do have REITs or funds regarding or investing in the mortgage business and mortgage industry asset so they are established players.
Is just mainly private equity or some other I mean some other type of players? Joining our private equity.
And then the other question is and you tell me if I’m missing something but your loan servicing revenue was down pretty much in the quarter and you also booked a big chunk of HSBC.
So we would have thought that would have went up not down.
Can you just add some color why that was down so much was there some one-time items that we don’t know about or we missed in the release? Yeah.
Paul the loss on the Atrium commutation went through the servicing revenues line.
The loss on a… Atrium commutation $20 million loss...
Okay.
… [$20.1 million] Okay.
So that’s where it flows through the system.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And should we with HSBC subservicing and now that’s did that come on at the end of the quarter should we start seeing benefits where would that flow through the income statement the earnings coming from the subservicing contracts? It would appear in servicing revenues and it did come on Board mid-second quarter so third quarter would be the first full quarter of revenues for that relationship.
Is there any and can you add any color what we should expect in the model I mean how the model that? Again Paul we don’t talk about the pricing parameters of our client relationships.
Yeah.
Okay.
It’s just it’s hard.
Okay.
And the -- and then can you elaborate little bit on the -- on restructuring your debt I guess or you -- is that something that now can take place like we talk in quarters months I mean where are we in that deleveraging process? So as we’ve talked about previously one of the things that we needed to do to clear the runway to execute on our capital structure priorities was to negotiate an amendment with our banks on revolver group.
We have done that.
So do we have the way paved.
And as I said in the script it remains a priority for us executing our capital structural charges and we will execute it on it as market conditions and our liquidity position permits.
So no timing expectations? Not at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much Glen.
You are welcome.
And we will go next to Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First just on your mortgage business the percentage of your retail percentage went up pretty meaningfully.
I was wondering if there was kind of a conscious choice to reduce the correspondent what was kind of driving that? Good morning Bose.
If you go back to our -- just go back to 18 months ago we had a stated objective of four strategic priorities for the business the first one being disciplined growth on our franchise channels.
At that time we identified retail as an important channel for us to grow in for a variety of reasons not the least of which was a higher margins lower margin volatility and we did.
Now our focus in correspondent lending to those partners that delivered us the highest quality production.
So what you are seeing today is the result of the execution on that strategic priority.
Okay.
That's great.
And then switching to the MSRs will the new funding arrangements -- I mean could they end up funding the bulk of your new MSR I mean can we think about kind of a scale of what you can do over there? We really are thinking about it in a context of newly originated MSRs and it would be a portion not all because we do have a production segment and because that segment has cyclicality involved.
So we are associated with it.
It's important for us to keep on balance sheet MSRs as part of the natural hedge.
Thanks Glen.
And then actually on the 2017 converts what's the premium on that right now and if you -- in terms of refinancing it do you have to -- I mean can you call it without -- is there a penalty there or do you have to tender for the converts themselves? Our first priority is really dealing with the 2016 debt maturity that is the next one out in the maturity ladder and extending our maturities as something as critical to the business.
On the converts we would have to -- if we want to take those out we would have to tender for them.
Obviously they are trading today at a premium to parity and we will have to offer price above that premium to parity to incentivize bondholders to surrender them in a tender.
Okay Glen.
Let me just throw in a fleet question to shake things up.
It looks like the lease vehicles have been down for a few quarters and it’s stabilized this quarter.
I am just curious what -- a what drove that damages and just the trends over there? So with -- our fleet business is performing very well so to your point Bose unit counts were flat for our lease portfolio net investment continued to be up.
We are balancing our growth in that business between service base units and fleet base units.
And as we’ve previously had moved our shift to more service type vehicles the number of vehicles going into the portfolio was lower than the number of vehicles going out of the portfolio.
So I think we have reached an equilibrium here for the business and expect to seek good prospects for continued growth in lease and investment.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
We will go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Good morning everyone and thanks for taking the time.
The obvious question is timing on the bond issue.
Can you -- are there any specific issues now that you’ve resolved with the bank that a sort of gaiting factors or is it really just a matter of going to the mechanics of -- deciding which notes to call which notes to tender for et cetera? Yeah.
Henry as I said before this yeah obviously the first [dominant default] was the negotiation of our revolver.
It remains a priority for us.
We’re committed to execute on our capital structure objectives and our intention is to address this market conditions when liquidity permits.
Agee</strong> No obviously everyone has run the numbers and paint down this debt.
It has a nice cost saving benefits to it.
If we look longer into the future is it probable that when you quote restructure your existing corporate debt that you’d be in a position to pay a dividend or buyback stock? Once we accomplish our capital structure objectives and obviously evaluate all the opportunities for us to invest the capital of the business to maximize returns for our shareholders.
Agee</strong> No just kind of shifting to the cost issues the service -- I know you have -- the $5 million is -- the $20 million that you talked about is potential cost savings of $5 million just from the IBM initiative or is there other? Yeah.
Henry if the collection of things that we’ve talked about Lean Six vendor management effort the IBM outsourcing indirect cost controls that entire basked we believe has the potential to generate $20 million in annualized cost savings beginning in the fourth quarter.
Agee</strong> Now in prior days your servicing cost used to be more like 758.5 basis points -- 7.5 points to 8.5 points.
And now we seem to be running in the 10s.
Is that -- is there -- can we get back to the old numbers or has the world changed to the point where that’s not likely? Yeah.
Henry I think the world has changed.
I mean there has been a substantial change in the regulatory environment for the mortgage business and a substantial change in the investments that all mortgage companies have to make in compliance in -- Singapore and contact foreclosure the CFPBS issued new servicing rules as well -- that the entire industries had to comply with.
And also Henry part of the value proposition for us in our outsourcing model is being able to offer differentiated services for each buy-in where we can customize our servicing activities specific to the needs of each client.
Agee</strong> No when we look at the two businesses the mortgage origination business and the mortgage servicing business.
Are they both likely to get more efficient or is there one of those two that’s pretty much running the way it should? Yeah.
We are applying our Lean Six Sigma and process initiatives to both our mortgage production and our servicing platform.
Both Dave Tucker and myself have previous experience as you know with GE.
We believe in continuous progress and performance and re-engineering from both a variable cost and a fixed cost perspective.
So we are on both platforms.
Agee</strong> Great.
I’ll get off and let someone else ask questions.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
And we will move next to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Could you talk about the priority of the 2016 debt maturity and how that relates to the 2014 convert? Do you need to wait until the 2014 convert matures and pay that off or could you possibly tender for that before hand? Are there any restrictions about paying after 2014 and then interest into 2016 could you just address how that should play out and how you look at the debt maturities going forward? Good morning Kevin.
We -- the amendment that we negotiated with our revolving credit lenders does give us the flexibility to address the 2016 and 2017 debt maturities without necessarily having to tender for the 2014.
So the amendment works such that if we want to take out the 2016 and ‘17s with cash we will then just have to place $150 million of cash in a restricted account sort of on reserve to address the 2014 debt maturities.
But if we’re going to refinance the debt and a debt for debt type structure we don’t have to place cash and restricted cash account.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And in concerning your expense based on your other expenses it’s going up roughly $27 million from last quarter.
And I get to about $12 million with a variable expense from production of $5 million fixed in the total of $19 million from rise from last quarter due to the mortgage servicing and production operations.
Could you explain some of the other details around why other operating expenses are rising? There is a number of factors that are being reflected in our other operating expenses.
Certainly on a year-over-year basis there has been -- as we’ve about an increase in compliance related cost and increase in our cost structure to lower origination defects which we have done.
We are seeing a benefit of that in the reduction of our mortgage quality related cost.
Particularly in the period we did incurs some one-time cost with respect to our quality improvement initiatives that we don’t expect to incur going forward.
I mean overall if I look quarter -- sequential quarter first quarter versus second quarter at our mortgage production expenses -- mortgage production expenses as a percent of application volume has remain flat quarter-over-quarter.
And then if we look at the HSBC transaction you probably had roughly about 50% of subservicing fees that you would have expected throughout the quarter.
And then would you expect the full amount of expenses associated with servicing that portfolio to be on the books or is that -- how should we look at the timing of the fee revenue versus the expenses from the HSBC deal? Yeah.
So from integration perspective we did have integration on boarding expenses that we did incur certainly through the first quarter and into the second quarter.
There are -- there is still some trailing work to do those will taper off in the third quarter and obviously be finished within the fourth quarter.
From an operating expense perspective the headcount that we took on with respect to HSBC we actually started hiring people to bring the portfolio on late first quarter early second quarter.
The bulk of the resources did hit in the second quarter but -- and again if I would have been a partial quarter for the bulk of the operating resources and a partial quarter for the revenues.
So on the third quarter full impact of the revenues full impacted of the operating cost structure but a trail off of the integration expenses associated with it.
How much expenses would fallout outside of some of the other expense initiative that you talked about earlier? Is it related to HSBC? Of the integration expenses from HSBC how much of that would you expect the fallout in the fourth quarter absence some of the other expenses did you talked about earlier? There roughly be a couple of million dollars.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Brad Ball with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Regarding your $1 billion of unrestricted cash could you give us an idea as to what the calls on that cash are? How much is needed to -- for day-to-day operations how much is need it relative to the rep and warranty reserve and then how much is available to pay down the debt that you described? Brad as we mentioned on the call there is a number of baskets that we look at in terms of earmarks for cash and liquidity.
Operating needs is the first one.
Second is our upcoming debt maturities.
We have the 2014 convertible.
There is $250 million associated with that.
Contingencies for interest rate movements cash posting on our hedges related to our mortgage pipeline are back in swing plus or minus $120 million.
So if you look end to end it’s an absolute value change of about $240 million and need to be prepared for.
A timing repurchase demands obviously we don’t have control over when the GSEs present demands to us.
We have on book reserves of $191 million plus another reason be possible of around 48-ish million dollars $45 million.
So I believe it’s prudent for us to make sure that we’ve got reserves on hand in case the GSEs you were to present a bulk -- a bulk demand obviously reserves therefore but we have come up with cash.
And then you obviously we want to make sure we’ve got adequate reserve to deal with any potential regulatory changes.
And finally and most importantly we are committed as I said earlier to execute on our capital structure objectives which include de-leveraging the business.
So we do want to make sure that we have cash on reserve to give us the flexibility to execute on that as market conditions permit.
Great.
Very helpful.
And how much do you need for operating needs is that $200 million $250 million or so? I would say it’s between $250 million and $300 million 250 to 300.
Okay.
And then how much cash is allocated to the fleet business? We look at the cash needs on a liquidity basis at the corporate level and as opposed to allocating specifically between Fleet and Mortgage? So I mean again based on that list of cash drawer that you just described an estimate for the ‘17 would probably cost about $300 million to repay at this point.
Do you feel like you have that cash on hand to deal with the ‘17 at this time? We believe our liquidity position is adequate and appropriate for the business.
Given the structure objectives and the operating needs that we see in the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just separately could you talk a little bit about the gain on sale dynamics that you described.
I think you said that July gain on sale average -- gain on sale was lower versus the second quarter is that right? And what is some of the components of gain on sale and how much HARP did you do during the quarter and what was the impact on HARP gain on sale? So overall pricing and margins I mentioned on the call had actually improved since quarter end through the month of July but still on average for July they were below the average for the second quarter.
In terms of the impact of HARP consistent with this -- with what we saw in the first quarter our production added about 25 basis points on average to total margin.
And again we are continuing to improve our execution on HARP.
HARP continues to be part of our origination channels focus and objectives and the program has extended through 2015.
So we’re going to maximize the opportunity available to that program until the program ceases.
So what was the share originations over HARP? It’s been roughly 10%.
Around 10%.
Okay.
That’s it.
Thank you.
And we will move next to Dan Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Just I think two questions here one is this $35 million and $20 million in annual cost savings that will commence in the fourth quarter.
Should we think about this as relatively spread out over the following four quarters or will there be some type of slope to those expense saves? The $35 million is actually coming from capacity reductions or by frankly staffing reductions in our business.
So once those reductions complete those will come through on our pretty much a levelized basis beginning in the fourth quarter.
Got you.
And then on the $20 million side? The $20 million we would see that coming through beginning in the fourth quarter it will probably a little bit later in the fourth quarter and then be at what I’ll call a level quarterly run rate beginning in the first quarter of next year.
Great.
And how about guidance around tax rate for the rest of the year have you provided anything on that front? I turn it over to Rob.
Yeah.
We’ve been running somewhere if you exclude the non-controlling interest around 38%.
So somewhere between 35% and 40% somewhere call it 37% or 38%.
Great.
And then my final question would simply be in today’s market where do you feel HARP gain on sale margins execute in a broad sense I mean we don’t need a GPS coordinator carpet bombing strategy would work? I’m sorry.
Can you repeat the question please? HARP gain on sale in today’s -- today? Yeah.
Again we don’t talk about gain on sale on a product-specific basis.
But again as I said earlier on average it’s adding about 25 basis points to our total loan margin.
Understood.
Thank you for the opportunity.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Ryan Zacharia with JAM.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just want to clarify something on a non-controlling interest.
So because its tax does a partnership is the $12 million the same pre-tax and after-tax that’s allocated to Realogy? I’m sorry sir.
Could you repeat? Can you repeat again? Yeah.
So because the JV is taxed as a partnership is the $12 million of non-controlling interest allocable to Realogy is that the same on a pre-tax and after-tax basis? Yes.
Okay.
And then just kind of a more macro question that as gain on sale margins come under pressure some other firms have contended that Correspondent is going to gain market share just because more small originators are going to have to sell the servicing for cash monetize the servicing and how do you think that you guys are positioned for that given the systematic kind of wind down of that business? Well I wouldn’t say we’ve systematically wound down the Correspondent business.
We’re so active in that channel today and you can see from our earning supplement that we are seeing several billion dollars of volume through that channel.
So we strategically have kept a position in that marketplace.
But we think it is one of the tools in the toolkit to tune the business from a originations perspective and we’re focused on those sellers who can deliver us high quality loan originations.
So we still have a position in the market and we plan to utilize that as necessary.
Okay.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Jim Fowler with Harvest Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Glen.
Thanks for taking my question.
I understand the commentary on expense line but I wanted to talk about it for just a second on a per unit basis.
I think as I calculate the composite between the Fannie and Freddie and MBA you had a really nice increase in purchase market shares this quarter.
I calculated about 50 basis points up from the first quarter which is probably one of the bigger jumps you’ve had in a while.
I’m wondering if you might comment on that.
And also when I calculate your cost originated actually improved about 5 basis points from the first quarter.
As you talked about which is excellent on a unit level basis.
So when I -- when you’re thinking about where expenses would be especially looking forward to what the industry volumes are estimated to be? Where do you are you targeting a cost to originate level that we can put into our model as you’re thinking about the expense base? And again do you can think your initiatives on the purchase market will continue to garner share as nicely it was in the second quarter? Thanks a lot.
Sure Jim.
I think our relationship with Realogy is a huge benefit to PHH.
I mean it gives us access to 25% of the transactions that are happening in a purchase market today.
So clearly we are seeing the strength to that relationship come through in the results.
We’ve also spent for the last six months a fair amount of time with our PLS clients and helping them build products programs and train their financial advisors to sell into a purchase market.
So we’re seeing good growth as a result of that.
So I’m optimistic and hopeful about our progress in growth in purchase applications.
Now Jim on the cost structure just given that each of our programs each of our PLS arrangements are customized to the needs of each client.
There is not a universal cost target that applies across all PLS contacts.
It’s obviously different based on the level of service you put in.
But Dave Tucker runs our mortgage business is overall looking to drive a 7% year-over-year productivity in its originations channel.
But that start to add different points relatively to the requirements of each client need.
Great.
Thanks.
And we’ll go back to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just quick follow up on the fee-based originations.
It’s becoming an increasing piece of your total origination volume and I notice that the fee revenue associated with originations has been coming down.
Could you just talk about how we should look at the fee-based originations and how that the percent of fee revenue associated with that and how it’s going to trend going forward? So the mix of our fee-based originations really come from what I’ll call client investment loans and as I mentioned on the second quarter we don’t control client invested loans I mean ultimately there’s a several factors that impact that.
One is our clients desire to put loans on their balance sheet the second their overall capacity or capability to do so.
But ultimately it's a decision that's made at the consumer level the borrowers one who ultimately determines what product they want to position themselves in.
So in terms of actual fees there is a difference between how to recognize income on the fee-based originations.
Our fees recognized at time of closing versus at time of lock so there is a lag that we would see on that.
And I’m not aware of anything in particular in the PLS contracts that would actually drive lower fees as we shift to a fee-for -- to this fee for service production.
The fees tend to be fixed and quite frankly depending upon the mix of a specific clients business the fee-for-fee-based originations actually goes up in terms of the fee-per-loan.
So yeah we would expect that this shift continues the amount of fees relative to our fee-for-service business would actually increase as that business makes shift.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you Zack.
And thank you all for joining the call.
I look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Once again ladies and gentleman the replay will be available beginning later today at the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 7283605.
It will be archived until August 15 2013.
You may now disconnect.