Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thanks Jessica.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in Slide 3 of our third quarter 2013 investor presentation of supplemental schedules which is posted in the Investor Section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts and Presentations.
Such forward-looking statements represent only our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investor Section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investor Section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation of supplemental schedules for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your continued interest in PHH.
This morning I want to quickly review the highlights from our third quarter.
Then I'll devote most of time to what we're doing at PHH to continue to create value for you.
In the third quarter segment profit for our fleet business was up over last quarter.
However our mortgage business generated a loss due to lower total loan margins continued declines in lock volume and severance cost related to our recent capacity reduction actions.
Our consolidated results also reflect the cost of repurchasing a portion of our senior notes due in 2016.
Rob will discuss our results in detail later on the call.
The mortgage industry environment is rapidly changing and the impact of rising interest rates on industry application volume has been significant.
The MBA application index for the third quarter of 2013 is down 41% from last quarter and 46% from third quarter of last year.
The successful execution of our strategy has delivered meaningful improvements in our business.
Compared to the third quarter of last year our home purchase related applications are up 21% segment profit in fleet is up 14% our customer satisfaction scores are up mortgage quality related cost are down 86% and we have extended the maturities and lowered the cost of our unsecured debt improved our ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt and significantly increased unrestricted cash levels.
We believe the improvements in our liquidity position capital structure and operating execution gives us greater flexibility to position the business for what we believe will be a home purchase driven mortgage industry environment.
Over the last six months management and the board have been engaged in a regular annual strategic review process.
Through this process with the support of external consultants and advisors when appropriate we are evaluating multiple opportunities to improve our business and drive value creation for our shareholders.
I would like to share with you the conclusions we have reached to date and the actions we are taking.
First we are reengineering PHH mortgage to be a more capitalized fee-based business with less volatile cash flow and earnings that is better positioned for the home purchase market cycle.
We are taking decisive action to accomplish this including developing alternative MSR funding sources renegotiating our private label agreements resizing our originations capacity and lowering our fixed cost levels.
Second given the high fixed cost structure in our mortgage business we are accessing all options to increase the scale of both mortgage production and servicing to drive acceptable returns in our home purchase driven market.
These options include new products new channels organic and in organic growth.
And finally our use of excess capital above our key cash requirements which may include return of capital to shareholders and strategic business investments is dependent upon achieving the following milestones which we believe in the aggregate can be accomplished in the first half of 2014.
Those milestones are sustained execution of our alternative MSR funding strategy amending the majority of our PLS contracts and resolving our repurchase backlog with the GSEs for our 2008 and prior originations.
With the successful execution of these actions we would expect to have a less volatile stream of earnings and what is still an inherently cyclical business.
I am pleased to announce that we have made meaningful progress in implementing several of the actions I just outlined.
As we have recently announced we have entered into an agreement with Matrix Financial Services an affiliate Two Harbors Investment Corporation to the sale of newly created MSRs.
We believe this funding relationship will contribute positively to our adjusted cash flow and allow us to maintain scale for our servicing operations.
Under this two year agreement we can sell to Matrix 50% or more as eligible newly originated MSRs.
We have also entered into a subservicing agreement with Matrix under which we will act as subservicer of the mortgage loans underlying the MSRs sold to Matrix.
Subject to mutually acceptable pricing we expect that first settlement of an MSR sale to occur in the first quarter of 2014.
And we believe MSR sales under this agreement could include roughly up to 40% to 50% of our newly created MSRs assuming the sale of 100% of eligible MSRs.
We are also pursuing our own separate MSR financing vehicle to further diversify our funding sources.
We believe the best potential structure for such a vehicle maybe either a REIT or an MSR excess drip securitization.
In this regard we are focused on several factors including the commercial viability of such a vehicle; the effective cost of financing; structural requirements including a recapture agreement; and the effect on PHH's earnings cash flow and return on equity.
A separate financing vehicle would require us to obtain amendments to certain PLS contracts and obtained GSE approvals.
If we intend to exceed the $350 million limit in our secured financing arrangement pertaining to MSR financing we would also likely need to renegotiate our revolving credit agreement and obtain amendment through our bond indentures or restructure our unsecured debt.
We will consider these factors as we evaluate our alternatives.
We are in active discussions to amend our contracts with private label clients that represents the majority of our volume through this channel.
The rule clarification issued by the CFPB earlier this year were the catalyst for these conversations.
However the combination of significantly lower industry volume and margin levels a higher mix of client invested volume and increase cost of fulfillment could cause certain PLS contracts to be unprofitable going forward.
As a result we are taking this opportunity to broaden our client discussions in an effort to ensure our programs meet our mutual operational and financial objectives.
We have reduced our mortgage origination capacity levels to match lower expected client and industry volume levels.
As a result we anticipate at least $60 million in annualized expense savings by the fourth quarter of 2013 relative to the second quarter of 2013 levels absent in increase in volume.
We will continue to monitor application activity and adjust our origination capacity levels to match market demand going forward.
We are lowering our fixed cost structure through outsourcing facilities consolidation and simplifying and de-levering support and overhead functions.
We continue to expect the annual run rate savings from the successful execution of our productivity and efficiency improvements could be approximately $20 million.
This amount when combined with the results of our capacity reduction actions could deliver in excess of $80 million in run rate expense savings.
We have project teams currently evaluating all opportunities to lower fixed costs and we expect to quantify additional cost savings opportunities if there any by the end of the fourth quarter.
Reengineering our fixed cost structure of loan will not be sufficient to achieve our desired return objectives in a home purchase driven markets.
However we believe we have several attractive opportunities to increase our scale in mortgage production and servicing.
For example in our PLS channel given the high cost of fulfillment to originate residential mortgages in the phase of declining industry origination volume levels we continue to believe that PHH's deep domain expertise and flexibility to meet changing regulation will make outsourcing to us attractive to banks and wealth management firms.
In our real estate channel we are focusing on sales force effectiveness fulfillment performance and expanding regional coverage in products to improve our capture rate in the real estate offices we currently serve and to selectively expand our presence in offices we are not currently serving.
In mortgage servicing with both the increased cost and regulatory pressure on banks could be a catalyst for increased sales of prime MSRs and subservicing.
We believe our focus our operational excellent has allowed us to build a leading servicing platform as capable as meeting today's stringent standards.
Our access to alternative MSR funding sources gives us the flexibility to pursue multiple options to increase the scale of our mortgage servicing platform.
In our fleet business we believe there are opportunities to grow through expansion into new markets such as small fleets and new products such as material handling equipment.
Expansion of fleet into new markets and products could accelerate fleet's profitability improvement and cash flow generation capability.
The credit enhancement that fleet has provided us over the past two years has been essential to our overall credit rating and has been a key factor in the improvement in our liquidity position.
Additionally in the near-term the credit enhancement fleet provides to mortgage at its current leverage will be critical as we reposition mortgage for a smaller home purchased driven market.
As part of our regular annual strategic review process we have also carefully evaluated the possibility of separating our mortgage and fleet businesses and the financial impact of such an action.
Based on our analysis conducted with the assistance of external consultants and advisors we have concluded that the separation of fleet and mortgage at this time could consume up to $920 million in cash.
Let me elaborate.
First in such a transaction regardless of structure we believe all of our unsecured bond debt would likely need to be restructured.
This would require roughly $200 million in tender and make whole payments to bondholders at current interest levels as well as the issuance of approximately $11 million incremental shares in connection with our convertible debt.
Second in order to maintain our BB minus or higher standalone credit rating for the mortgage business we believe we would need to reduce our unsecured debt levels to approximately $750 million to $1 billion.
This would require approximately $295 million at the $1 billion debt level to $545 million at this $750 million debt level for principal reduction.
Third any transaction at book value or higher would incur at least $175 million in tax costs after applications of our net operating loss carry forward.
Finally even in a transaction structured to avoid triggering our current tax payment the deferred taxes would remain a liability for the fleet business or a potential buyer.
We believe the high level of estimated cash required for debt restructuring and payment of taxes could consume the gross proceed realized from such a separation or a substantial portion of our unrestricted cash balances.
Management and the board will continue to evaluate and consider all opportunities to maximize value for our shareholders.
Regarding our liability management actions our recent unsecured debt issuance and tender offer met a number of our key capital structure objectives including reducing our cost of debt and reducing the refinancing risk related to our 2016 debt maturities.
We will periodically evaluate the potential benefits of prepaying or refinancing our unsecured debt including our 2017 convertible notes and would only take action to the extent it's consistent with our capital structure objectives and is value accretive to our shareholders.
Our vision for PHH is a more capitalized business with greater scale less volatile cash flows and greater operational and capital efficiency and we are pleased with the progress we have made towards that end.
Now I will turn it over Rob to discuss our financial results for the third quarter.
Thanks Glen.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation for the third quarter of 2013 of $52 million or $0.90 per basic share which include an $11 million pre-tax unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment on our MSR asset as mortgage interest rates decline slightly from the end of second quarter.
Core earnings after tax and core earnings per share both of which exclude the net MSR mark equal the loss of $45 million and $0.78 per share respectively in the third quarter.
The GAAP and core earnings results include a $54 million pre-tax charge related to the early repayment of senior notes due 2016 and $9 million pre-tax charge for severance costs related to capacity reductions for the current mortgage origination environment.
Excluding those items core earnings per share would have been an $0.11 loss.
Core earnings pre-tax for the combined mortgage segments was a loss of $39 million during the third quarter as compared to a loss of $29 million during the second quarter.
Included in the third quarter results was $9 million some pre-tax severance related charges while the second quarter results included a $21 million pre-tax loss related to the termination of a reinsurance agreement.
As I'll explain in more detail the decline in mortgage production profitability was partially offset by a significant improvement in mortgage servicing results.
Mortgage production core earnings pre-tax equal the loss of $22 million as compared to the second quarter of 2013 mortgage production earnings were down $66 million primarily due to a decline in both interest rates locks and margins along with the aforementioned severance charges.
Interest rate lock commitments are expected to close decline 46% to $2.9 billion in the third quarter and total loan margin narrowed by 33 basis points to 315 basis points.
The margin decline was primarily driven by a sustained higher interest rates while interest rates locks reflected declines in refinancings and a continued mix shift to our fee for service originations.
Fee based closings rose to 58% of total closing from 47% last quarter.
Fee based loans represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet so we do not recognize the gain on sale.
Also our fee base revenues are recognized in mortgage fees at closing.
Applications for the third quarter totaled $12.6 billion down 36% from the second quarter as compared to a 41% decline in the MBA application index for the same periods.
Mortgage servicing core earnings pre-tax equal to loss of $17 million compared to a loss of $73 million last quarter.
The $56 million change in sequential quarter core earning was driven by a $17 million improvement in MSR run-off due to slower prepayments; $16 million in lower repurchase foreclosure and delinquent serving expenses; and a $21 million loss related to the termination of reinsurance agreement that occurred in the second quarter.
We continue to see opportunities for improvement in the core earnings result of our mortgage servicing segment as the impact of any declines and prepayments rates becomes fully reflected in our results and if quality related cost continue to trend down.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $228 billion was up 24% from the beginning of the year principally due to the assumptions of subservicing during the second quarter.
The capitalized portion of our loan servicing portfolio which totaled $131 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter was down slightly from the second quarter and down 7% from the beginning of the year.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio during 2013 has been driven primarily by high prepayment rates a grater portion of our mortgage production on a fee-per-service basis and our narrowed focus on our correspondent channels.
We did experience a significant slowdown in prepayments during the month of September FCPR has fell to an annualized rate of approximately 13% as compared to 24% on average for the second quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 94 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio representing a 3.2x capitalized servicing multiple.
These valuations are unchanged from the end of the second quarter and up from 69 basis points and 2.3x at the end of the third quarter 2012.
The year-over-year valuation increase was primarily driven by the increase in mortgage rates and represents the present value of higher expected servicing cash flows in the future.
We continue to make progress with the GSEs with regards to repurchase request and we believe that GSEs remain on track to be substantially complete with their repurchase request for pre-2009 originations by the end of this year.
The total dollar amount of outstanding repurchase requests fell to $150 million at the end of the third quarter as compared to $154 million at the end of the second quarter primarily due to the resolution of private investor request.
The total number of new repurchase requests in the third quarter rose to 735 from 603 last year as the agencies push to meet their yearend deadlines.
During the third quarter our repurchase and foreclosure reserves fell to $180 million from $191 million as we experienced $15 million in realized losses while providing $4 million in reserves for new loan sales.
Our estimate for reasonably possible future losses related to repurchase and indemnification request declined to $35 million at the end of the third quarter from $45 million at the end of the second quarter.
As a reminder the estimate for reasonably possible losses is above and beyond our recorded repurchase and foreclosure related reserve.
A largest component of our remaining reasonably possible estimate is now related to FHA claims and represents the potential for a reduction and the number of claims we may file in the future as compared to the historical experience.
Our fleet business had another solid quarter continuing to provide consistent segment profit.
Third quarter segment profit for fleet was $24 million up from $21 million in the second quarter of 2013 primarily reflecting a decline in operating expenses.
Service unit accounts and net investment and leases were virtually unchanged from the second quarter.
During the third quarter we saw increased activity in both new business request as well as awarded business that we expect to activate in the fourth quarter.
In addition we experienced continued success in retaining a very high percentage of our current clients.
With regards to liquidity we closed the quarter with $1 155 million in unrestricted cash an increase of a $111 million compared to $1 044 million at the end of the second quarter.
Drivers of this increase included a release of $57 million of previously restricted cash from over collateralization on feet securitizations $39 million of cash received in connection with the second quarter's reinsurance contract terminations and the remainder cash flow from operations.
I'd like to reiterate that approximately $825 million to $900 million cash is earmarked for specific purposes that are outlined in our investor supplement as a key cash requirements.
To include $250 million to $300 million in cash required for working capital to operate the business; $250 million to address the maturity of our 2014 convertible notes that come due in less than 10 months; $225 million for rep and warrant counterparties legal regulatory and other risks; and $100 million to $125 million for collateral purposes to support our interest rate risk management activities.
In addition the cash balance at the end of the third quarter includes $113 million of cash held for our Canadian fleet business which we do not intend to use in the U.S.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
At the beginning of 2012 we're facing a crisis of confidence in our liquidity.
Since that time through the execution of our strategic priorities we have significantly improved our liquidity position capital structure and operating execution.
As a result of these efforts and our ongoing actions to reengineer our mortgage business for the home purchased market cycle we believe PHH will be in a much better position to deal with the cyclical and dynamic nature of the mortgage industry.
We have executed on our alternative MSR funding structure that we believe will contribute possibly to our adjusted cash flow and allow us to maintain scale for our servicing operations.
We have reduced originations capacity and fixed cost that could deliver an excess of $80 million in run rate expense savings.
We are renegotiating our PLS contracts to ensure they continue to meet our operational and financial objectives.
We have extended the maturities and lowered the cost of our unsecured debt.
And finally we have defined the milestones that we believe we need to achieve to consider returning capital to our shareholders.
We're proud of the track record of creating shareholder value in the past two years.
And we're executing the actions required to deliver additional value to our shareholders.
I want to recognize and thanks my colleagues at PHH for their hard work and enduring commitment to our success.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
Jessica? (Operator Instructions) We will go first to Paul Miller with FBR.
Glen can you talk a little bit about your flow agreement with I think it was announced with Two Harbors? And then also are you thinking about selling some of your other non-flow MSRs? Paul we're really pleased with the flow agreement we entered into with Two Harbors.
We wanted to work with an investor who is not really a national competitor to PHH in originations and servicing business.
And as we continue to work with Two Harbors we continue to gain a high level of confidence that Two had the requisite industry knowledge and appetite to be a long-term partner.
And as I said before we'll be selling newly created MSRs to Two Harbors enable to subservice them over time.
We do believe the economics for this transaction are superior to a lot of other alternatives that we have looked that.
The time to get pull together was less than trying to pull together a REIT the cost of doing it was less.
And we think the cash proceeds we get up front plus the present value of our subservicing agreement will be at least equal to the value which we capitalized the servicing on our books.
In terms of whether we'd consider selling existing MSRs our first priority was really to make sure we had the diversification of funding sources to allow our mortgage business to run on a cash flow positive basis going forward and we think our arrangement with Two Harbors would help us to do that.
We would consider or may consider selling existing MSRs but as you know Paul being that we have a large exposure to the originations channel we are going to have to keep on balancing MSR to naturally hedge our mortgage production business.
And then you might have mentioned this on the call but I missed it if you did.
We've seen a lot of settlements with Fannie and Freddie as they're trying to wrap-up a lot of this stuff but I think they're incentivized to wrap-up management as all these reps and warrant claims that happened before '07 or '08.
Can you add any color are you in talks to do this are you on that same road path?? As Rob indicated in his remarks the GSEs have continued to represent us that they believe they'll be complete with the review of our 2008 and prior repurchase backlog by the end of this year.
So we're focused on closing out that backlog principally in the fourth quarter.
And then last.
I'm glad you went through the detail by the way Glen the pros and cons of selling the Fleet business but you mentioned something about $200 million of tender bonds is that the $200 million that that's from the convert? And aren't you kind of considering to do that anyway even if you sell the fleet or not? Paul the $200 million in tendering make hold costs would be on our unsecured debt net basically go to our bond indentures and you can calculate what the make whole costs are as the present value of interest plus at a substantially discounted interest rate to maturity.
And then whatever tender premium we'd have to pay on top of that.
And then we talked about the incremental issuance of about 11 million shares associated with 2017 and the 2014 converts so both the incremental shares as well as $200 million is basically all of our unsecured long-term debt.
I mean sitting with $1.2 billion of cash of liquidity and you guys have talked about continued deleveraging so what are some of the things that you can do to get rid of some of that cash and get rid of some of that debt then? So as Rob talked about in his remarks we are marking $250 million of our cash to take care of the 2014s at the time of their natural maturity.
However we continuously evaluate and explore alternatives to restructure or retire our debt early but we'd only do it to the extent that it's consistent with our capital structure objectives as well as consistent with returning or I should say creating value for our shareholders.
And thing that we've already taken the 2016 out and derisk that portion of our maturity profile right now as we have look at the options to take on and retire our debt it appears that it would be pretty substantial transfer of wealth from our shareholders to our bondholders but we'll continue to evaluate it going forward.
We'll go next to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Just a follow-up on Paul's question concerning the MSR transactions.
Could you help us understand the 40% to 50% of the MSRs that are generated? Now we will look at that as basically all loans close to be sold in a 40% or 50% of that is that the right way to look at it? Yes loans closed to be sold would be those loans which would have an MSR associated with them.
And then assuming we sell a 100% of eligible loans to Two Harbors or Matrix then we'd be in that 40% or 50% range.
So it would be 40% to 50% of your total originations? 40% to 50% of loans closed to be sold.
The MSR associated with loans closed to be sold.
And then regarding the repurchase request you have $132 million worth of liability remaining for indemnification request.
Then you also have $35 million of potential reasonable possible losses and that's primarily related to FHA insurance claims.
Could you just give us a little more color around the $132 million is that primarily related to Fannie or Freddie? And when or timing of that possible settlement could you just give us some color? The $132 million is primarily related to the agencies and within them primarily related to Fannie.
Based on our ongoing discussions with them and borrower requests that we're receiving we believe we're adequately reserved for the pre-2009 vintages as booked today.
And they continue to work through their backlog and send us request and it's been consistent with the total amount that we expect to receive.
It may come in lumpy months-to-months but right now we think we're all on the same page.
And then regarding the renegotiation of your contracts with PLS would you be willing to walk away from some of those in order to make sure those contracts are profitable or even cash flow positive? Look I'm not going to speculate as to what could or would happen if in fact we were unable to reach agreement with our private label clients.
These discussions are commercial negotiations proceeding in spirit of the long-term relationship that we've had with these customers.
We remain cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to get through these discussions within the timeframe that we've laid out with our PLS clients.
We'll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> A couple of questions first on the discussion about fleet.
Some of the conversations we've had and some of the investor comment I've looked at the idea of someone buying fleet but in essence not doing it in a manner that they absorb the deferred tax liability.
Am I to assume from some of your comments that that's just not a workable solution? The taxes have to be dealt within one way shape or form.
So either you have a current tax payment upon a separation or the tax liability travels with the business as a potential buyer.
The taxes can't disappear.
Agee</strong> And then just kind of an unrelated topic back to this idea of your renegotiating your primary relationships.
Is the issue with your clients price or are they looking at alternative technology platforms? Schwab worked its way over to Quicken.
Are your clients saying we need a more robust platform or do they still sort of value the white glove service and are willing to pay for it? Henry it's important to note that we are the ones who opened up these conversations not our private label clients.
And again these conversations were originally triggered as a result of the need to modify these contracts to ensure that they were compliant with the CFPB rule clarifications that were issued in May or June of this year.
And given the level of while glove service that our clients demand and just given the increased cost relating to underwriting quality assurance compliance audits a number of different things.
The nature of manufacturing a mortgage loan or the cost associated with fulfilling or manufacturing mortgage loan has gone up substantially from when a lot of these contracts were originally negotiated.
So that plus changing industry needs to want to be able to pursue a more capital-light structure for our business and to more effectively manage our capacity up or down.
We believe gave the need for us to approach our clients to think about changing certain provisions in these agreements to make sure they going forward these agreements continue to meet our mutual operating and financial objectives… Agee</strong> With every origination there is a capital commitment either implied in the MSR or just in funding and managing a loan process.
If you lost a major client would you then be in a position to either through paying down debt or buying back stock take that capital and essentially take it out of your equation? Henry as I said before I'm not going to speculate about what could or would happen with respect to these client negotiations.
And I think and I outlined earlier in my call the milestones that the company needs to achieve which again we believe we can achieve in the first half of 2014 to consider return of capital to our shareholders and strategic investments in the business.
And we'll go back to Kevin Barker with Compass Point You outlined $80 million of expense savings is there other areas where you can find expense savings going forward? Kevin as I had mention on the call we do have project teams that are deployed in the business looking at all opportunities to continue to reduce fixed cost in our business.
And categories that we're looking at our continued process simplification de-levering slight consolidation.
So if you look at this part of industry cycle it's been coming upon management to leave no stone unturned and to consider all options for taking cost out of the business.
And we've got teams of people deployed in the business to do that.
We feel confident and good about the fact that we've already gotten at least $80 million of cost savings that we could access in the business on a run rate basis.
But just because we got back doesn't mean we should put pencils down and stop looking.
And there are no further questions.
Thanks Jessica and thanks to all of you who have joined our call.
We look forward to seeing you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 1-888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference Id 7913121.
It will be archived until November 22 2013.
You may now disconnect.