Good day everyone and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your Vice President and CFO Mark Mey.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Rich and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics’ conference call and webcast to review the company’s operating results for the first quarter ended December 31 2014.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current plans expectations estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only of this date.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining today’s call.
Atwood’s fiscal year 2015 has started well with excellent financial and operating performance for the first quarter.
We achieved record revenues of approximately $352 million due in large part to a full quarter’s contribution and a strong start-up from the Atwood Achiever.
Our offshore rig teams and on-shore support personnel exercise prudent cost discipline and avoided costly incidents to improve our margins.
With the exception of charges relating to the Atwood Hunter and the Atwood Southern Cross the first quarter was one of the best in our long history.
Our operations and technical services team delivered a fleet-wide revenue efficiency of 95% for the first quarter.
Other than some BOP related downtime on the Atwood Condor and five additional days for commissioning the Atwood Achiever prior to commencing drilling operations we delivered outstanding rig reliability to our clients.
Importantly our first quarter was also an excellent one for safety and environmental results as we maintained our strong momentum from last year.
I mentioned on our last earnings call that we needed to raise our game on performance in 2015 due to difficult market conditions.
And so far the Atwood team has done just that.
Turning now to the first quarter’s developments the Atwood Achiever our newest A-Class drill-ship and our most recent addition to the Atwood fleet has gotten off to a great start.
Since our last call we loaded the second BOP in the Canary Islands and completed all remaining field tests successfully.
The reliability performance of the rig has been excellent thus far and we are currently building our first well for our client Cosmos Energy in Morocco.
Clearly lessons learned from the Atwood Advantage startup last year had been applied for the Achiever’s benefit.
The Atwood Hunter completed its drilling program in early December and has remained idle since that time.
Our inability to secure follow-on work coupled with a difficult market conditions and uncertain outlook led us to conclude that the Hunter would not drill again in the foreseeable future.
Therefore we plan to scrap the rig which has triggered the accounting impairment that Mark will describe in more detail.
Prior the scrapping we will remove some of the more valuable equipment including risers and BOP components and shift them to the Hunter’s sister rigs Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon which are operating in Australia.
This will defray some future maintenance and capital costs on these rigs.
Also in the first quarter the Atwood Southern Cross which had not worked for more than four years was divested from our fleet.
We have spoken frequently on these call and had investor conferences about the bifurcation trend in today’s rig market.
And Atwood has certainly not been immune to it.
The retirement of two long-time contributors like the Hunter and Southern Cross the difficult aspect of our business especially has the impact on our effective employees.
However the difficult moves are necessary if we are to maintain good utilization of our rigs and reduce costs on rigs that are unlikely to see future growing activity.
We certainly hope that our competitors most of whom have been through similar situations will follow soon.
Turning now to projects the delivery schedules for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer have not changed since our last call.
With the current downturn virtually eliminating incremental new build orders and relieving the pressure that has existed on the major rig equipment supply chain we expect that both of these drill-ships will be completed by their current delivery date.
However based on our recent discussions with DSME Shipyard on the current challenges in ultra-deepwater rig market we believe that we can secure later delivery dates of these rigs from shipyard if required.
We have recently adjusted the timing and scope of our fiscal year 2015 projects for the Atwood Eagle and Atwood Falcon and reflected these changes in our current fleet status report.
The Atwood Eagle special periodic survey has now been delayed to June to accommodate our client’s current drilling program.
In addition the Atwood Falcon’s work scope has been reduced so the rig is now expected to incur only five zero-rate days in the April timeframe.
Mark will provide details on the expected impact on our fiscal year 2015 costs as a result of these changes.
As contracting we did secure two shorter-term jobs for the Atwood Mako since our last call.
The Mako returned to work in early January for a two-well program in Malaysia after being idle for 34 days in the first quarter.
We also lined up the short-program in Vietnam and direct continuation that is expected to keep the Mako on a roll until at least June.
Beyond this date we are targeting a number of programs that appear to line up well with the Mako’s availability.
I will now give an overview of the macro-environment for oil prices in the offshore drilling business before commenting on our own rig marketing efforts.
As oil prices have trended downwards since last summer we have seen tendering and fixture activity across the offshore drilling space decrease dramatically.
And the E&amp;P operators have just finalized their 2015 budgets in January and we have seen significant reductions in budgeted CapEx versus 2014 figures especially in exploration expenditures.
Wage freezes and/or layouts are being announced regularly across the E&amp;P and oilfield sectors as companies look to hunker and right-size for our lower oil price environment.
Most clients I talk to believe that this downturn will extend into 2017.
It is clear to us that higher oil prices are required for offshore drillers to see any meaningful sustainable pick-up in rig demand from today’s levels.
The most hopeful news for oil prices is that we’re seeing U.S.
land drilling decline in a big way with land rig counts currently down approximately 20% from their peak and with the most recent published weekly reduction representing the largest decline in nearly 30 years.
If this trend continues it suggests that peak oil production in North America may come sooner than previously expected and that we will see oil production decline before summer.
As for offshore rig supplies we are seeing a welcome acceleration of cold stacking and scrapping of both floaters and jack-ups.
Already our competitors have announced nearly $6 billion in asset impairments in the past two quarters.
We expect that many of our competitors will announce additional cold stacking scrapping and/or impairments on their upcoming earnings calls.
The growing realization by offshore drillers that this downturn will cut deeper and last longer is shortening the time from the day a rig goes idle to its permanent retirement.
We need to see more of this.
Also some of our competitors are like Atwood delaying the deliveries of their new builds to enable entry into the market at a more favorable time.
Turning now to Atwood’s marketing efforts we continue to pursue a handful of opportunities and the ultra-deepwater and deepwater space.
With around 20 ultra-deepwater rigs currently idle every job is and will be heavily contested.
For the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer we are most focused on the drilling programs that will make the best use of these rigs superior drilling capabilities and dual BOP systems.
We are sticking with our plan to not deliver these rigs from the shipyard without contract.
The jack-up segment continues to become more challenging as a growing number of new builds closer to the delivery dates and bid into a stagnant demand market.
Fortunately we’re seeing more jack-up new builds delayed from the original dates and more recently the beginning of rig order cancellations.
It is fair to say that we are unsure how the jack-up segment will hold up as we progress throughout this year.
Currently we are marketing our jack-ups widely in Southeast Asia the Middle East and West Africa as priority areas.
This concludes my prepared comments so I’ll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financials.
Thanks Rob.
Today I will review our first quarter operating results comment on our financial position and provide updated guidance for the fiscal second quarter and remainder of the year.
Let’s start with fiscal first quarter highlights.
Record quarterly revenues of $352 million on 1 023 operating days for the quarter; this compares favorably with $323 million on 1 009 operating days in the previous quarter.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.71 however if adjusted for the impairment to Atwood Hunter and the loss and sale of the Southern Cross diluted earnings per share were $1.71 for the quarter.
$1.71 is slightly less than the $1.72 earned in the previous quarter on 14 pure operating days.
Revenues and net income were driven by good revenue efficiency of 95% across the fleet and the early results of certain cost control measures implemented during the past few quarters as oil prices and day rates have probably declined.
Adjusted net margins of 31.1% were achieved for the quarter as compared to the 34.7% for the previous quarter.
Contract drilling cost excluding reimbursable costs of $12 million [ph] totaled $137 million for the quarter as compared to $117 million for the previous quarter but below the guidance provided on the prior conference call.
The $117 million in fiscal 2014 also excluded $15 million in reimbursable costs.
The operating cost out-performance was achieved by both cost savings and the postponement of non-critical maintenance projects.
The cost savings were achieved in several areas including personnel equipment and associated freight and travel.
We were also aided by the U.S.
dollar strength against the Australian dollar and the Euro.
Due to higher revenue efficiency during the quarter reducing available days for maintenance projects coupled with no unplanned maintenance cost we are able to defer maintenance projects to later quarters in 2015.
Deferred projects represented approximately 50% of the operating cost out-performance during the quarter.
We recognized a $61 million impairment charge on the decision described which consist of three balance sheet line items.
And net put value write-down of $48 million and aiming to be above $8.4 million and the accrual of mobilization and other costs associated with the asset disposition of $4.4 million.
Note also that mobilization revenue and cost for the Achiever were about $6 million less than planned because the re-completing of mobilization to more tenure in less time than anticipated.
General and administrative expenses totaled $17 million about $700 000 below guidance due to lower personnel and travel cost during the fiscal first quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 16.5% above the previous quarter and my prior guidance due to non-deductible charges associated with the asset impairment.
Moving to the balance sheet capital expenditures totaled $149 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of shipyard progress payments on the Admiral and Atwood Archer plus capital spares project management and other costs related to these two remaining rigs under construction.
Net debt decreased modestly about $48 million to $1.62 billion at December 31 so our net debt capital ratios also declining to be 38.3% from 40% at the end of the previous quarter.
We have neither any debt amortization nor any debt maturities until May 2018.
Our liquidity totaled $581 million at the end of the quarter and I have not foreseen it tipping below $400 million to delivery of the Atwood Archer in May 2015.
Liquidity then rapidly increases well above $400 million in the following quarters.
Risking our decision to delay the delivery of the two remaining new build drilled ships by six months please note that the financial impact of this decision to our five-year planning model is positive to both liquidity and leverage ratios.
Now let’s discuss the outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
Before beginning with guidance let me reiterate that 96% of our remaining days for 2015 are currently contracted.
Atwood Mako one of our highest specification specific class jack-up is the only 90-days of availability in fiscal 2015.
In addition approximately 60% of our 2016 available days are currently contracted.
Now to updated guidance.
Referenced in the most recent fleet fitness report we have planned other service days as follows.
The Atwood Osprey five days in the March/April timeframe for scheduled maintenance.
The Atwood Falcon five days in April for its new way of change-out you may recall that we previously disclosed another service period of 13 days for the Falcon.
But due to the revised scope we have squeezed eight days or $1 million from that project.
The Atwood Eagle 21 days in June with special survey all costs associated with these service days are included in my cost guidance below.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $11 million for the fiscal second quarter.
Regarding contracting cost I now anticipate full year 2015 to range between $550 to $570 million with the fiscal second quarter ranging between $140 million and $150 million.
This annual contract drilling cost forecast this $45 million was 7% up prior full year guidance.
These estimates for contract drilling costs exclude reimbursable costs which are approximate $8 million for second quarter and $30 million for the fiscal year.
The increase in costs from the first quarter to second quarter of 2015 are being driven by the timing of certain maintenance projects specifically associated with the Atwood Condor and Atwood Falcon most of which will be an expense during the second quarter.
Depreciation spew reduced to $43 million factoring in the anti-disposition for the second quarter and total of $173 million for the full year.
Full year guidance reflects the reaction of $7 million against previous guidance.
G&amp;A expense should reduce for the remaining three quarter and range between $13 million and $15 million for the quarter.
For the full year G&amp;A expense guidance is reduced by $2 million to $60 million.
Interest expense should range between $14 million and $16 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining three quarters.
Our expect our effective tax rate for the second quarter to approximate 11% and range between 10% and 13% for the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures should total between $40 million and $50 million in the second quarter full year fiscal 2015 CapEx should approximate $613 million.
The vast majority of their many capital would be inferred in the fourth quarter upon delivery of the Atwood Admiral.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I’ll now turn the call over to Rich for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
And we’ll take our first question from Ole Slorer of Morgan Stanley.
Thank you very much.
Rob I thought I’d just ask you a high-level generic question first one that we get quite often from investors these days which is about the ability to cancel contracts for operators who found themselves long rig for the time that they’re trying to cut back on projects slide them to the right.
To what extent can they cancel rigs not only in the case of Atwood but if you just look at your experience with several cycles.
What does it take for it to be able to just blindly walk away from a contract? Well Ole obviously buries some degree by contract.
But generally across this industry the contracts are pretty tight with regard to the kind of provisions that are in the contract that would allow a client to terminate it early.
Typically it’s got to be a typically egregious violation of good operator-ship.
Sometimes the terms used gross negligence or some kind of a major issue that would take place with the operability of the rig where we’d be out of service for let’s say months rather than days.
So we really take a pretty specific event to trigger determination.
And even then in a lot of cases you’ve got a payout of either the profitability or the full day rate of the contract depending on the agreement itself that would accrue to the drilling contractor upon termination.
I will tell you that we have had no indication from many of our clients of any concerns regarding the preservation of our current contracts.
Obviously as you can tell from our quarter’s results we continue to deliver excellent operations and safety performance.
And from that perspective we really don’t have a concern about contract cancellations.
Okay thanks for that.
And my second question is one on let’s say the market takes a couple of years for argument sake to recover and it’s difficult to sign your yield contracts or contracts on your yield to new builds.
You mentioned that you have flexibility around pushing out the deliveries you recently had it done.
So what conversations would you be able to have with DSME even it comes to further pushing out just to the right? And also Mark you mentioned a payment in the fourth quarter for the Admiral.
How were the payment cycles be affected as well as potentially kind of who would face the costs of maintaining the rig well well finished within the yard? Well we don’t have any valid agreement for extending the delivery of these rigs at this point in time.
However I said in my prepared comments we’re confident that if we need extra time we can get it.
We have an excellent relationship with DSME and they’ve indicated to us flexibility in exchange frankly for the major commitment we made to that shipyard by committing to build four our ultra-deepwater drill-ship.
So we certainly don’t want to have to utilize that extra time of the shipyard.
Obviously our first order of business here is to market these rigs.
But if market conditions remain challenging and we don’t get a contract in time we do believe we can push deliveries out the right.
And then of course in doing that you could expect that there would be some adjustment in the payment schedules.
But again that would specifically we would strike with DSME for further details.
Okay well thanks for clarifying that.
I’ll hand it back.
Thanks Ole.
And we’ll take our next question from Praveen Narra of Raymond James.
Hi thank you and congratulations on the strong quarter.
I just wanted to ask a quick follow-up to Ole’s question.
Given the junior crew doesn’t necessarily have to be hired on yet for the two delayed ultra-deepwater rigs.
How much should we expect in terms of cash operating costs for the senior crew is it $100 000 a day fair number or is it higher and I do think that we can have for the Archer? Well Praveen we anticipated that there might be some challenges with marketing the Atwood Admiral.
And we truncated our hiring of senior personnel and really never even got to the point of hiring junior personnel for the Admiral.
And certainly it’s well for the Archer.
So we’ve got just a small handful of senior folks that are potentially allocated to those two rigs.
And at this point in time we’ve allocated those personnel around the rest of the fleet.
They’re supporting the Achiever start-up and they’re getting a lot of them are getting great experience there and some of them working here in Houston.
But we’re talking about a really small number of guys because we anticipated this could be the reality.
The other thing going on as you know is that with the much softer labor market we’re confident that as and when we get a contract we will have plenty of lead time to supplement internal Atwood personnel with folks from the outside to fully accrue both of those rigs.
So the whole concern that existed a couple of years ago about being able to get a number of qualified and trained people to run these rigs that issue has really become a non-issue.
And therefore we could be much more time-sensitive in terms of filling out the crews both junior and senior for these new drill-ships.
Okay perfect.
And then last quarter you had mentioned that there were less than two hands worth of visible tenders.
Can you guys give us a sense of what you’re seeing out there to the fog and where we stand today in terms of actual potential ordering activity that’s out there.
Is it a handful or is it complete standstill or obviously about the same? No there is a handful of opportunities out there.
As I mentioned in my prepared comments so these are heavily contested.
And you’ve got around 20 idle floaters out there that are of the ultra-deepwater variety that if the client doesn’t necessarily either require or can take fully advantage of the additional drilling capabilities and it will be a key system that we have on our drill-ships they may opt for an existing rig that’s idle.
That’s why we’re really focusing on those programs that can take best advantage of the capabilities that we bring.
But to answer your question directly it’s still a small handful that we’re focusing on.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Klayton Kovac of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
So in your prepared remarks you all mentioned jack-up order cancellations and delays.
Could you expand a bit on this comment for instance could you quantify how many cancellations or delayed new-builds you’re seeing? Yes we’re seeing regular delays in new-builds.
And I think there is any number of sources out there that can quantify that.
But practice information around both the jack-up and floater markets weekly and weekly we’re seeing delays sometimes a month or two sometimes longer.
We’re seeing cancellations I think our number is up to about five cancellations we’ve seen from the November to February timeframe.
Okay thank you.
And then as a follow-up just regarding industry-wide cold stacking and scrapping can you provide us with just little further detail around this comment either quantitatively or qualitatively? Well qualitatively we haven’t seen enough of it.
And we’re going to continue to repeat that mantra and hopefully it’s over our competitors will either read the transcript or listen to the call.
But this is vastly off the slide market.
There is a report out today that talks about the number of rigs that could exit the market both jack-ups and floaters by 2017 and frankly we need all of that.
So the good news is that it has picked up.
We’ve seen double the number of rigs that are cold stacked and strapped from August to today.
We counted on the floater side from 23 to about 37.
But we need a lot more than that to go into cold stacking and then ultimately be permanently retired.
But I do think that you’re going to see an acceleration to that.
And I think once we get through this quarter’s earnings call we’ll have a much better sense of how much of that’s going to happen and hopefully sooner rather than later.
Great.
Thanks.
I’ll turn it back over.
And we’ll go next to Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks and good morning guys.
Real quick on the I mean on the floater activity on the tendering activity.
I mean at this point it’s still early early days in 2015.
But generally speaking it looks like most of the tenders that we’re seeing are more already for 2016.
Would you clarify do you think that’s a fair statement or at this point it’s just all mix between the tenders that are out there.
Is it still a mix between ‘15 and ‘16 or already started this the operators look more for taking on rigs in ‘16 over ‘15? Well it’s definitely pushing to the right.
I mean you’ve seen the budget cut significantly for 2015 really across this space.
And I think it is fair to say that things are pushing into later ‘15 and early ‘16 beyond where they would have been let’s say six months ago.
But keep in mind the Atwood Admiral is not scheduled to come out of the yard until really the end of the calendar third quarter which would be our fourth quarter.
And by the time you move that rig around to the Golden Triangle you’re into early ‘16 anyway.
So our first availability for the Atwood Admiral to turn to the right for a client is really going to happen right around the end of ‘15 early calendar ‘16.
So that’s why that timing actually doesn’t line up badly with where Admiral is today.
Okay great.
And then Mark real quick on the retirement of the Hunter.
How should we I mean so the rig has been idle as we think about this quarter what - should we expect this rig to be out of the fleet come the June quarter or is that something where there is a process of you mentioned removing some of the equipment etcetera before the rig is actually out of the fleet? And in terms of the stacking or the scrapping of the rig could you sort of walk through some of the cost dynamics of that? Is there any value for the Atwood is able to realize from selling the rig for scrap orders of more just it’s more just like is it a cost? Well Greg certainly cost is involved with this.
And the numbers I gave you earlier around the impairment involves three items including the write-down of the net book value to write-off of inventory which is not all the inventory.
These inventory available beyond the $8 million which we’ve transferred to the sister rigs the Eagle and Falcon.
In addition to what Rob mentioned around risers and BOP components and other components it will be just stippled through rig and sent to Australia.
That process in preparing the rig for scrapping would take us probably through the end of this month February month.
And then you have to tow the rig to the scrapping yard which could take another few weeks.
So I would say most of the cost associated with this rig would be out of the fleet and of the second fiscal quarter of ‘15.
Perfect.
The extra proceeds you’re going to get from the shipyard as you can imagine that’s not going to be very much.
Yes sure.
Perfect okay.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go next to Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
Number one Rob any discussions you’re having with your customers regarding Falcon for ‘16 or is it still too early to talk about that? Well we’re focused on all our rigs everyday Waqar.
So it’s never too early to talk about opportunities for any rig in our fleet.
I’m actually going to be traveling to Australia later this month.
And obviously the discussion on the future of the Atwood Falcon and the Atwood Eagle will be fair game.
Fortunately we do see some opportunities for both rigs and we’re going to be pursuing those in the coming weeks.
Obviously we’ll look to close some deals as soon as we can.
But fortunately those two rigs are in a good position.
We see additional work the rigs are operating safely and reliably as they always have.
And we’re hopeful about getting some fixtures to extend those rigs in the coming days.
Now the fixtures that you see I don’t know if you can comment on that are they with the existing customer or are they outsider? Well it could be a little bit above for competitive reasons I can’t say too much but we’re seeing a number of clients in the Australian market who are potentially interested in time on the Eagle and the Falcon.
Okay.
Thank you there.
And then Mark with regards to the capital CapEx program could you break that down between maintenance CapEx and new build CapEx as well is there any upgrade CapEx? Yes.
For this year we expect the $630 million to be about $80 million to $90 million of maintenance CapEx including capital spend.
About $20 million in capitalized interest and the rest of that would be our new build CapEx on the Admiral mainly and a little bit on the Archer.
Okay.
And then for the Hunter there is going to be some cost associated ongoing cost for maybe a quarter or so.
Could you give us a breakdown what the number is is it it should be around $10 000 to $15 000 a day for the next couple of months is it going to be more than that? Well as I mentioned in my prepared comments Waqar we do have some other costs we’re going to be incurring on that rig preparing it for normalization.
We have accrued some of that so I would assume that the remainder of this is probably going to be some $20 000 a day if that much.
And then just on the daily operating cost like historically we’ve been using 3% to 5% kind of inflation every year.
And now as we model into ‘15 and ‘16 and beyond maybe we’re getting into inflationary environment.
Could you comment on how should we be thinking about daily operating costs both from material and supplies deflation and maybe on labor cost inflation or deflation angle? Yes Waqar I wouldn’t jump straight to deflation when it comes to cost.
I would say that you’re right.
We’ve been running somewhere in that 4.5% to 5.5% in the last two years.
I’ve guided this year to around 3% we’re probably going to come in below that because we have seen some improvements in maintenance costs.
We’ve seen some reduction in the increase in personnel cost.
But I wouldn’t go as far as the deflation for personnel cost.
So I would assume my previous guidance of 3% maybe that comes down to about 2%.
But I would use that for this year and have 1% or 2% for next year.
We’re hearing from your equipment supplies about some deflation environment you’re not seeing - you’re not seeing that as yet on materials and supplies and maybe more on the outer years but not yet? Waqar for others like Ron discussed where we’re getting from our suppliers with regard to discounts and rebates or fleet good for that matter.
So I suggest that we go with my guidance and that should work out pretty well.
Okay.
I will jump in here Waqar and say that everybody is concerned about the drilling contractors holding to their contracts.
Keep in mind what we do with a lot of our suppliers other than let’s say a turnkey contract on a new build is done on a periodic basis.
And I will tell you that just as our clients want to save money we want to save money as well.
And so we’re going pursue opportunities to reduce our costs where we can.
Obviously a lot of that as Mark is competitive to Atwood.
But we can certainly envision striking better deals with our major suppliers going forward given the challenging market we’re all in.
In the coming years there are going to be some assets high quality assets that make come to the market.
Does Atwood have any interest in that right now and the focus is just to get the two drill-ships contracted? Well certainly the primary focus on high-quality assets or the two high-quality assets we’re building it the DSME Shipyard.
Beyond that we certainly are available to a consider growth in our fleet through inorganic means.
And if those opportunities become available and we’re comfortable with our contractual position or on our existing fleet we’ll certainly look at those opportunities.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Waqar.
And we’ll go next to Dave Wilson of Howard Weil.
Good morning Rob good morning Mark.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I kind of wonder if it’s the Hunter and given the impairments there what kind of conclusion we should draw about the values for the Eagle and the Falcon.
I know both of those rigs have more than a year left on each of the contracts.
Can you talk about possibilities of tendering beyond that? But I just want to see how we should think about those rig values and their placement of fleet longer term.
If we get to the inter-contracts and there is nothing readily available do they follow the same path as the Hunter did? Dave good question.
I think Rob answered most of this question already because the rigs are all working.
They do have at least a year of contract backlog against the Falcon and a lot more than that with the Eagle.
But also we are in discussions with regards to follow-on work for these rigs next year.
But I guess just looking at these rigs and looking at whether operating that also creates a bit of above fold there.
Australia is a remote location of their cost in getting there there is also a cost of getting in there because I assume it’s the second strictest safety regime in Atwood drilling.
So I think the fact that these rigs are isolated they do have backlog they have prospects of further work.
And obviously we’re going through our impairment test on this there is no risk to impairment on these rigs for this year.
We don’t think where we’re sitting today looking at follow-on work for these rigs next year that we have an issue there either.
But obviously these rigs are all that older rigs in the fleet the two remaining older rigs of the fleet.
So I wouldn’t put a tailor life on them.
But they certainly have life beyond the existing contracts.
Got you got you thanks for that.
And Mark just a quick kind of follow-on something regarding the final payments on the Admiral and the Archer.
Can you give me a rough estimate or percentage or proportion to get finance versus what portion gets paid from cash? Dave we have that slide in our deck.
Okay.
I don’t have it broken out by rig right now but sufficed to say that there is our revolving credit facility could use by about another $215 million upon delivery of the Admiral.
So we have about $430 funnel payment so you’re looking at about 60-40 between revolving credit facility and cash and cash flow.
Perfect.
Thank you.
I’ll turn the call back over.
And we’ll go next to Darren Gacicia of Guggenheim.
Hi guys good morning.
I wanted to ask back in November I read the forecast saying I thought that kind of by the end of ‘15 there could be kind of 30 to 35 rigs retired kind of by year-end.
Where do you see that pacing? Do you think that that’s going to be higher than that lower than that and sort of within the context of that question how many ultimately do you think need to be retired the balance of the market? Well Darren we expect that that number is going to trend much higher over current levels as we move through 2015.
And again we’re hopeful that we’ll see some of that earlier as many of our competitors have their earnings calls and share there their thoughts for their fleet as they got through this year.
It’s a little bit difficult to say how many need to come out of the market because the fact is the demand is uncertain at this point.
We’ve seen demand trend downward slightly both in floaters and in jack-ups.
And I think the answer to your question really depends on where does demand go from here but sufficed to say that a significant number of additional rigs need to come out of the market both on the floater side and the jack-up side for us to stay in balance.
Keeping in mind that a number of new builds both on floaters and jack-ups are going to enter this space at least over the next couple of years.
So we’ve got to counter balance those and then we got to get our utilizations back up because if they’re below 90% in both jack-ups and floaters.
So it sounds like kind of 60 to 70 still to the total number it just means you’re pretty unloaded.
With regard to demand I know that it seems like the budgeting process this year for your clients has drawn out because everybody has to keep running things at lower oil decks.
What do you think that that’s done to sort of the road-map for understanding how demand kind of evolves over the course of the year versus maybe what it’s to look like and how that process has gone in past years? Well I think the real issue here is that the rigs that are rolling off contract in 2015 are going to be challenged whether they’re jack-ups or floaters.
And fortunately for Atwood Oceanics we’ve got the very limited exposure in fiscal 2015 and calendar 2015 it’s really just the Atwood Mako it’s the only rig we have in our fleet other than the new builds which I mentioned by the time they get around the Admiral we get around it it’s beginning of ‘16.
But the Atwood Mako is the only one of our active rigs that’s got exposure.
And if you look at the number of floaters and jack-ups that are going to be rolling off contracts in the next 12 months I think those are going to be some significant candidates for retirement.
Because the prospects for their renewal are going to be difficult especially with the inventory of IO rigs that already existed in both segments.
Got it.
If I could ask one more what - visibility wise compared to prior years again from clients in terms of where demand may go and kind of how they’re looking at the year.
How would you compare what do you think you are there? Well this has obviously been a very difficult year for our clients.
And you can see how many of the clients delayed or revised their 2015 budgets here into this calendar year before they were able to release them.
This downturn has happened a very quickly the movement in oil price has been dramatic from levels that we were accustomed to for about four or five years of $100 plus per barrel to get down to $60 brand.
As quickly as we did really it’s caught a lot of people by surprise.
And of course that’s really hampered any kind of clear visibility on this year.
But we’ve pretty much resigned ourselves here at Atwood I’m sure as an industry this is going to be a very difficult year.
But we hope that these steps that we and others take lay the foundation for a sooner an earlier recovery and trying to get supply and better balance with demand.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate the color.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to JB Lowe of Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
I don’t mean to beat a dead horse here but I just had a quick follow-up on the Eagle and Falcon and what your strategy is going to be for those rigs as they roll-off contract.
Is it essentially Australia robust for those rigs? And by that I mean if you aren’t able to find follow-on work in Australia would you just retire the rigs then and there or would you consider mobilization them out of the region? Well that’s obviously hypothetical question.
But there is no question that is more relayed the advantages we have in having those rigs in that market.
One other advantage is just the fact that these are marred rigs and we’ve got shallow dissymmetry in Australia which sees those rigs better in a lot of cases in even DT rigs for most of the areas that are being drilled on the Northwest Shale.
So that coupled with our long-history there our agreement with our employees that keeps the yields off our rigs.
We’ve got a lot of good things going for us and having the Eagle and the Falcon in Australia.
I’m not going to speculate what we would do if we weren’t able to get follow-on work in Australia but there is no question that our best opportunities are right there in Australia.
Okay fair enough.
And earlier in your comments you mentioned that the time between rolling off contract and the decision to retire a rig has shortened considerably.
And I’d like to pose that question to you.
How long would you wait for those rigs to be idle before you made the decision to go ahead and retire them? Well again that’s a speculative question.
But I’m not sure I’m going to get through.
But the look of what we did with the Hunter right the Hunter rolled off contract in early December and here we made a decision in early 2015 to scrap the rig.
So we understand the reality of this over-supplied market and I think it’s pretty clear to all whether you’re an analyst following this industry or a participant who competes with Atwood Oceanics that supply needs to come out of the market to get into better balance.
All right.
Thanks so much.
You’re welcome.
And we’re going next to Judd Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Rob question on just a follow-up on one of your prepared during your prepared comments you said that I believe you said your customers don’t see a recoveries for 2017.
I’m just curious if there is any color on why that particular timeframe why not 2016 or even later in 2018.
Is there any one particular or two things that they’re looking I’d just be curious if there was any color on why maybe that timeframe? Yes.
I think the oil prices are the main driver right now.
You’ve got tremendous change in the economics of everything whether it’s onshore or offshore that has really again dramatically entered the decision process of the E&amp;P space.
And for this oil price to get back to the kind of levels that we always talked about is being robust levels sort of the $80 brand.
I think people believed it isn’t going to be V shaped it’s going to be U-shaped the recovery.
And that might take up to 24 months to happen.
All right that makes sense.
And then my follow-on I guess would be for Mark.
On just thinking about operating cost going forward I know historically for an offshore driller if all your rigs are working the flexibility to kind of reduce cost can be somewhat limited.
Mark I’d just be curious to get your thoughts on what kind of flexibility you may have on your operating cost going forward.
I’m just thinking if day-rates continue to come down and approach let’s say depressed levels may be much lower than we are today.
How should we think about the flexibility on trying to reduce your operating cost further I know it’s hard because labor is such a big component are there any things we should think about to be able to get your costs lower even lower from this point? Yes Judd.
We kind of touched on this earlier.
I think you’ll understand how these contracts are structured because they required [indiscernible] which you have to maintain.
And very solvency reductions in wages the personnel costs are perhaps the inflation on personnel costs are reduced.
But you’re not going to see much of a decrease on this year-on-year.
The point that I made and Rob pointed out earlier on equipment cost there’s always been an effort by the participants in this space to negotiate better terms and conditions as the market evolves.
So in a dawn markets we’re currently experiencing we’re going to try and reduce costs in areas where there is some optionality around that.
Oil prices also drive travel cost so perhaps our rotation costs will be the crude to some of the rigs are located in remote areas.
There we’ll see some relief.
So overall you could see some improvement there but as you know with about 60% of costs tied to personnel the [indiscernible] is really muted.
Yes that’s what I figured.
And if I could just slip in one more Rob you got a question earlier on contract cancellations and what not.
What about one thing that we’ve heard is operators are coming to their partners they’ve cut the contractors and asking to maybe renegotiate contracts to the extent and then get more term maybe for a lower rate.
And that seems to be happening a little more than it did in 2009.
I guess would you agree with that or as customers approach to you on maybe re-modifying contracts in that regard? We’ll we’re certainly open to working with our clients on the opportunities that we consider win-win.
Some of the clients out there and I’m talking generally not about Atwood client specifically but some clients are really focused on 2015 costs.
And therefore the opportunity to reduce 2015 cost and exchange for an extension of an agreement really makes sense for them.
However you’ve got some clients out there who are concerned about extending any drilling commitments at this point in time just given the down-draft in oil prices and all those challenges they’re having internally.
I mentioned wage reasons and layoffs I mean unfortunately these are pre-occupying a lot of the executive suites of our client base.
And so I think this process of how much do we see from the client in terms of trying to trade off rates today for longer term contracts I think that still has to play out here as we move through 2015.
But we’re open to deals that make sense for us and our clients.
At this point in time we really haven’t had many of those discussions.
All right.
Great.
Well I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to David Smith of Heikkinen Energy.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Most of my checklist of questions have been asked.
So kind of a bigger picture industry question.
And I realize it doesn’t apply much to you today.
But given a growing number of rigs that are idle and more that will become idle as in excess of a full-on excess of supply can make the contract a game of Bloodsport.
More rigs looking into the abyss whether it would be cold factors or hot do you see any potential capacity constraints at the traditional facility is that would handle those assets whether to be longer warm stacked or cold stacked or even scrapping? Well I would tell you that we haven’t seen anything yet that puts if you will an exit barrier on rigs from the supply stack.
Keep in mind that once a rig is cold stack even if it’s not scrapped and it’s not actively marketed and it’s really the marketed utilization that tends to drive the fortunes of our industry.
Obviously if a rig is scrapped then the question of it returning to service is resolved once in for all.
But the real step that the industry needs to take is to cold stack these rigs.
And especially if you got older rigs and we’ve talked before about the periodic surveys and the costs of those trigger you’re going to have a pretty high barrier to entry in terms of reactivating a cold stack rig especially if it’s an older rig.
So the - I really don’t see the potential capacity of the scrapping shipyard of being a limitation on setting the right foundation for our industry going forward.
Great I appreciate it.
I was just thinking about the timing of the ability of rig stacks in the market and whether traditional facility is for cold stacking equipment might get pulled if there are any constraints around that.
And then you answered it thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Mark Brown of Global Hunter.
Thank you.
Good morning Rob and Mark.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask for Atwood Admiral and Archer what geographic regions are you marketing those rigs? And on the off-chance that DSME was not willing to delay further and you did not have a contract what region would you consider mobilizing those rigs to once they were delivered? Well in answering your first question we’re marking the rigs widely.
But we do focus on areas where you can take full advantage or the clients can take full advantage of the drilling and well control capabilities of these drill-ships.
The Golden Triangle tends to be a very established ultra-deepwater basin that’s where most of the ultra-deepwater capacity is.
And sufficed to say that’s the likely home for both rigs going forward that’s certainly where we put the advantage in the Achiever.
Regarding your second question? Yes Mark that’s not something we’re considering right now because as Rob said earlier we feel comfortable that we can negotiate an extension with the shipyard if and when we needed that.
Obviously our first priority is to put the rig to work.
And we’re focused on that right now.
So we have to discuss that opportunity in time if acquired at that time.
All right fair enough.
And just moving to the jack-ups I think you mentioned the Middle East is an area that you’re looking to place some of your jack-ups along with Southeast Asia and West Africa.
I was wondering what parts of the Middle East and Saudi Arabia is that one of the markets you’re looking at.
And if it were and if it’s so which of your jack-ups would you be looking to potentially move there? Well we’re looking at the Middle East broadly and you obviously saw these one of the big jack-up markets in the Middle East.
Look we’ve got five high-specification jack-ups and four of those are going to have some availability in 2016.
So we’re going to be looking at that region for really all of the rigs in our fleet.
We haven’t singled out any rig for that area or not.
Clearly if we have the opportunity we’ll keep our rigs in the regions where they are today or close to home.
So we would certainly gratify to be able to secure follow-on work for the Mako in Southeast Asia in places like Malaysia and Vietnam moving from Thailand rather than having to move half way around the world to the Middle East or West Africa.
But in this market with the challenges that we’ve got we have to market widely in the Middle East.
It’s certainly a potential home for our high-spec jack-up fleet.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The first thing I want to ask is well on the weeds but is it generally preferable to cannibalize parts rather than trying to all amend the market or was this specific to the fact that you had rigs in your fleet that can make use of them? Yes Jeff in this case the proceeds from set in this rig is up $3 million.
The value of the part that we could take over the rig and move to sister rigs is about six to seven times that.
So it’s by far more beneficial for us to be able to cannibalize our own rigs as opposed trying to sell it.
Because as Rob mentioned in his comments and the Q&amp;A there is a long list of rigs that are currently idle either in a warm or cold stack state that are trying to utilize the same facilities to monetize their asset as they go through a scrapping decision.
Okay.
And I just wanted to make sure I was clear on for example if you had a use for BOP on the rig that you were going to take out of service? You have an opportunity to actually sell that BOP under the market if you don’t have use for it? Yes you certainly have that opportunity but it’s typically more cost effective if you can utilize in your own fleet.
And we have two sister rigs to the Atwood Hunter the Eagle and the Falcon they have the same BOP from the same manufacturer.
And therefore it’s just a natural opportunity for us to move those components over to the Eagle and Falcon and try to resell them in the market.
That was helpful.
You mentioned we’ve had a lot of discussion on the call about contract margin being preserved and people want to try that council contracts or whatever.
You also mentioned there is some new build jack-ups appear to have been cancelled.
What kind of penalties do contracts incur if they cancel a new build rig? Well.
On the jack-ups Jeffrey if you understand the payment terms the plenary is rid of the payment terms.
So with the emergency of the Chinese shipyards you had anywhere from 1% down concept up to about 10% on the backend.
So if you’re ordering a wafer about $200 million it’s anyway between $2 million and $20 million that you could be walking away from which sounds like a lot of money and some see if the market value of the rig drops below the cost price that is probably the only solution that some of these sponsors have because they have not built up operating teams or marketing teams.
So the ability to get contracts for these rigs which is a prerequisite for getting financing is not available.
And I think you kind of anticipated my follow-on on that and that was particularly the cancellations that you’ve seen but maybe even with some of the delays can you characterize the kind of operators that I mean the kind of contractors that are involved in these cancellations? I mean are these more speculative types rather than seasoned contractors? Yes Jeff there is a long list of this and I could discuss with you offline.
If you want to give me a call back afterwards we can go through in detail.
Okay.
I just meant generally in this case to characterize it? Yes it’s mainly speaking on this.
And this cycle has been dominated more I speculated strong Southeast Asia as opposed to the previous cycle.
So a lot of the capital is coming from Singapore Malaysia China several deals have been financed by Chinese banks.
So I’m not sure typical sponsors in the ordinary course.
Yes these contractors and sponsors would not be helpful mainly in the offshore drilling business.
So Mark is right these tend to be speculators or built for purpose collections of individuals who’ve invested and now no longer fund the investment either palatable or sustainable.
So but Mark can give you some more details on that offline.
That would be great.
So I’ll speak to him later.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
You’re welcome.
We’ll take our next question from Lucas Dewel of ABG.
Thank you guys.
Good morning I’m going to be quick.
Rob when looked around the world what is going on? What would you say is the leading edge for high and medium fold on a premium jack-up? Yes we’ve been pretty clear on our calls not and not to say too much about day rates especially in a competitive environment.
I think you can look at the recent fixtures and see that they’ve been trending downward and draw that from other sources.
Right.
Fair enough thanks.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to Mike Breard of Hodges Capital.
Good morning.
You just said there were maybe 20 competitors for the Admiral and Archer.
How many of those would be technically equivalent to your rigs your BOPs in that kind of time? Very very few.
I mentioned that there were 20 approximately 20 ultra-deepwater rigs and we’re idle.
There maybe one or two that have dual BOP systems.
And we would argue that none of those two have all capabilities that the Admiral and Archer did.
So you clearly have an opportunity to distinguish the offering we do here at Atwood with capabilities we put into our rigs.
And that’s why it makes a lot of sense for us to focus on the clients and the opportunities it will take full advantage of that.
Okay.
But surely you can find people that want that option.
One small question the Beacon is being paid in Euros how much with the weaker Euro how much is your cash cost also denominated in Euros? Yes Mike.
You may have read our 10-K and 10-Q.
We’ve hedged when we entered this contract the vast majority of those revenues.
So we do get a benefit from some of the costs but most of our senior crew are experts from jurisdictions outside of Europe.
So we’re not going to see that much of a benefit in costs.
But however your line has been retained through the foreign exchange hedging.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Spittel of Clarkson Capital.
Thanks good morning guys.
You were very generous with your time.
So I’ll keep it brief.
Just in the past you’ve talked a little bit that articulated an ambition to grow the dividend by about 10% per annum.
Given the prevailing market conditions that we’ve spoken about on the call is it fair to say that that’s subject to re-evaluation at least temporarily? Well as you know Jeff the quarterly dividend is approved by the board of directors.
And so it’s difficult for us to be too definitive about the future dividend strategy without the full consultation with them.
It is clear to say though that our stated ambition to grow the dividend was made at a very different time in the market both in terms of oil price as well as the share price that Atwood had.
So even as the dividend hasn’t moved since we initiated that the yield has gone up significantly.
So I would just say that future discussions on dividend are - discussions on dividends are probably premature at this time.
Sure that makes sense.
Okay thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
And this concludes our questions.
I will now turn it back over for any further remarks.
Well thank you all for joining today’s call.
And good-day until next time.
And this does conclude today’s program.
You may disconnect at any time.
And do have a wonderful day.