Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 1625773 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 20 2014.
This access information is also described in the company’s press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our Third Quarter 2014 Investor Presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial highlights for the third quarter and provide an update on the execution of the capital and operating initiatives we discussed last quarter.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
I’ll start on slide 4.
In the third quarter we reported $215 million in net income attributable to PHH Corporation.
We also reported a net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation of $88 million which excludes a $303 million gain on the sale of our Fleet Management business net of tax.
There were a couple of other items of note in the quarter.
Our results also reflect a $40 million unfavorable market related MSR fair value adjustment $54 million in pretax charges related to early debt retirement severance and legal and regulatory reserves and $10 million in unfavorable tax adjustment resulting from the Fleet sale.
In addition we are pleased to have executed an agreement with Fannie Mae to resolve substantially all outstanding and certain future repurchase and Mae co-requests related to the sale of mortgage loans originated and delivered prior to July 1 2012 for a net payment of $13 million.
Finally we deployed approximately $650 million in cash to execute our share repurchase and debt reduction initiatives.
Our production segment reported a loss primarily related to the continued high mix of fee-based business in our PLS channel.
The mix of fee-based business appears to have stabilized at approximately two thirds of total production.
Total loan application volume is down 9% versus the third quarter of last year as industry origination volumes remain meaningfully below recent year levels.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was up 4% which compares favorably to the third quarter results for the overall industry which was down 12% as reported by the MBA.
Over the past four quarters that have been reported by Inside Mortgage Finance we have increased our retail mortgage origination market share by approximately 1.2 percentage points to 5%.
In the third quarter total loan margins improved by five basis points compared to the second quarter.
We believe total loan margins continue to reflect pricing discipline in the retail loan originations market.
In addition total mortgage production expenses were down 21% versus the third quarter of last year.
Our servicing segment reported a core loss pretax for the third quarter.
While year-to-date mortgage quality related charges and servicing are down 83% from the comparable period last year reported core loss was primarily related to three items; an increase in MSR actual prepayments a charge related to the Fannie Mae settlement and legal and regulatory reserves taken in the quarter.
We believe there are multiple profit opportunities improvement opportunities for the servicing segment including reducing the delinquency of our total servicing portfolio reducing foreclosure related and REO charges related to VA [no-bid] loans increases in interest income on Escrows and the benefits of our reengineering initiatives.
As we said last quarter assuming current market conditions and interest levels persist we continue to expect to report negative core earnings on a consolidated basis through the first-half of 2015.
With the implementation of our reengineering growth initiatives we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second-half of 2015.
Now please turn to slide five.
We have made significant progress in the execution of our capital structure initiatives.
In August we funded a $200 million accelerated stock repurchase program or ASR initially retiring approximately 7 million common shares.
We expect to complete the ASR in the first quarter of next year.
We have board approval for up to an additional $250 million in open market share repurchases which we expect to commence following the completion of the ASR subject to market conditions and the other requirements of the repurchase program.
We utilized approximately $450 million in cash during the third quarter to repay $420 million in face value of unsecured debt honor prior to maturity.
As a result we ended the third quarter with a total unsecured debt balance of $870 million which is within our target range.
These actions will reduce our annualized GAAP interest expense by approximately $48 million.
Our next unsecured debt maturity is not until June 2017.
Turning to slide 6 we remain focused on our reengineering efforts which we expect to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits with one time investments of up to $200 million.
There are two components driving our expected reengineering benefits.
First is execution of our expense reduction actions.
Second is the achievement of our private label contract renegotiation objectives.
Regarding expense reduction we are where we expected to be at this point in time.
We are executing a number of specific actions that are expected to generate approximately $175 million of the annualized operating benefits.
These actions are focused on three major areas.
First we expect organization structure redesign and facilities management to deliver 40% to 45% of these annualized operating benefits over the next six to 12 months.
Second process improvement in both origination and servicing operations are expected to deliver 30% to 35% of these annualized operating benefits with approximate half realized in the next six to nine months and the balance over nine to 24 months.
Third [better] management and consolidation is expected to deliver the remaining 20% to 25% of these annualized operating benefits over the next six to nine months.
The vast majority of these operating benefits are expected to come from fixed and indirect variable cost.
Approximate 80% will benefit the production segment and the balance will benefit the servicing segment.
In total our expense reduction actions are expected to require a one-time investment of approximately $160 million.
Of this amount approximately 45% is expected to be charged to current period earnings over the next six to nine months and approximately 55% is expected to be capitalized investments over the next 24 months.
As a result of our expense reduction plans we recorded an $8 million severance charge in the third quarter which was the only expense in the third quarter related to our reengineering and growth initiatives.
Now please turn to slide seven.
Moving to our private label contract renegotiations we continue to make progress and our clients remain highly engaged.
Joint project team and executive level discussions continue to address contract economics risk sharing and more balanced terms.
Due to the needs of both parties our discussions have evolved to include customer management strategies application quality pipeline management practices profits and technology capabilities customer satisfaction drivers capacity management and evolving compliance and vendor management requirements.
As a result our PLS model for some of our largest clients will likely change in order to address the needs of all parties.
Certain activities could transfer to our clients and certain process [inaudible] activities could be eliminated.
For instance as some of our clients strive to meet increased regulatory vendor management requirements we are finding ways to modify contract terms to allow supplier transitions post contract expirations should the need arise while at the same time protection the proprietary nature of our relationship.
As another example in order to reduce loan origination cycle times with one particular client we may provide this client with more direct control over the application process.
As a result the client would have greater accountability to drive application quality and increase responsibility for bar communications and specifying underwriting conditions for client invested loans.
We have more work to do in PLS and as a result cannot provide more specific details at this time.
We are working diligently with our clients to attempt to conclude these negotiations by yearend.
We remain cautiously optimistic about the process.
However we can make no assurances that our clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
To wrap up on reengineering I want to reiterate that we remain focused on delivering up to an expected $225 million in annualized operating benefits with an expected one time investment of up to $200 million through expense reduction actions and renegotiation of our private label contracts.
More than 75% of our total expected reengineering benefits is driven by our expense reduction actions.
We believe this gives us significant control over the achievement of our reengineering goals.
Now please turn to slide 8.
We intend to invest up to $150 million for selective growth opportunities over the next 24 months.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earning streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure and capabilities to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand the target market for our mortgage program to include our clients mass affluent customer base.
Timing of implementing this growth strategy will be influenced by the outcomes of our private label contract negotiations.
We are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base especially to reach all community banks.
We are encouraged by the initial response from prospective clients in the sector and we are pleased with how the pipeline is developing.
In our joint venture with Realogy our year over year home purchase related closings outpaced the industry.
We remain focused on continuous improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improved capture rate.
We are also expanding our preferred mortgage program by marketing our mortgage services to all the employees of our relocation clients as opposed to just relocating employees.
We now have a total of 16 clients participating in the program and are in various stages of conversations with several additional potential partners.
Also in our real estate channel we have opened new origination offices in the Houston and Dallas markets.
We intend to continue to opportunistically expand our coverage in the top 25 home purchase markets in 2015 and 2016.
We are also leveraging our call center fulfilment capability to target lower density home purchase markets.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both homes servicing and sub servicing.
Finally we also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities as purchase market cycles have driven industry consolidation.
We believed the combination of current market conditions and our strong capital and liquidity position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We are targeting purchase market focused retail platforms with a strong culture of compliance and growth that can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of growth opportunities our near term priories remain reengineering our operation and re negotiating our private label contracts.
We intend to provide further detail on our growth initiatives as they develop.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob to discuss our fanatical results.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 9 and notable items are shown on slide 10.
For the third quarter of 2014 we reported net income attributable to PHH Corporation of $215 million or $4 per basic share which includes a $303 million gain net of tax on the sale of our fleet management business.
The net loss from continuing operation attributable to PHH Corporation was $88 million or $1.64 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $13 million or $0.23 per basic share in the second quarter of 2014.
Third quarter results reflect several items as a results of the execution of our capital and operating strategy including $8 million in severance charges related to our cost re-engineering plans and $24 million in early debt retirement costs.
In addition the third quarter included $22 million in legal and regulatory reserves and $40 million in unfavorable market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment.
Core loss after tax and core loss per share in the third quarter which excludes a net MSR mark and the result of discontinued operations was $64 million and $1.19 per share respectively.
This compares to a core loss after tax of $18 million and a core loss per share of $0.31 in the second quarter of 2014.
The sequential quarter increase in our core loss in the third quarter is primarily related to the early debt retirement cost the increase in legal and regulatory reserves and a loss in our mortgage servicing segment.
In addition as a result of the sale of our fleet segment we recorded an unfavorable tax valuation allowance and a contingent reserve for state taxes totaling $10 million.
Moving to slide 11 in the third quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $28 million compared to a $27 million segment loss in the second quarter as a lower gain on mortgage loans from a 10% sequential quarter decline in interest rate lock commitments expected to close was partially offset by growth in mortgage fees due to a 6% sequential quarter increase in total closings and lower allocated interest expense.
Total loan margin in the third quarter equaled278 basis points as compared to 273 points in the previous quarter.
Total loan margin in the month of October was in the 280 to 285 basis point range slightly improved over third quarter levels.
Fee based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 65% in the third quarter consistent with the first two quarters of 2014 but above the third quarter of 2013 level of 58%.
As a reminder fee based closings represent production that is retained by our clients for their own balance sheet.
We don’t recognize a gain on sale and fee based revenues are recognized at closing.
The continued elevated percentage of fee based closings underscores the importance of our efforts to re-engineer our PLS contracts.
In addition the production segment results include $4 million of additional corporate overhead allocations as compared to the second quarter primarily due to the reallocation of corporate overhead cost post the sale of our fleet segment.
These costs are expected to be addressed through our re-engineering plans.
Now please turn to slide 12.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a segment loss of $71 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to a segment profit of $10 million in the second quarter of 2014.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments of negative $40 million in the third quarter and positive $8 million net of hedging gains in the previous quarter.
The unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment in the third quarter was primarily driven by a 21 basis point flattening of the U curve that’s measured between the two year and the 10 year swap rates which resulted in increased projected prepayment fees.
The value of our MRS hedge portfolio was unchanged during the quarter as the composition of the hedge was not sensitive to the same changes in yield curve shape.
For parallel rates shifts our hedge coverage ratio at the end of the third quarter equaled 42% of the change in the MSR.
Third quarter 2014 mortgage servicing core loss pretax was $31 million as compared to $2 million in core earnings pretax in the second quarter.
The major of the sequential quarter decline was due to $20 million reserve taken for legal and regulatory matters $4 million as a result of an increase in actual MSR prepayments fees $4 million from an increase in repurchase and foreclosure related charges related to the Fannie Mae settlements and $3 million primarily from an increase in corporate overhead allocations as a result of the sale of our fleet business.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $226 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter 2014 was up slightly from the second quarter of 2014 as increases in sub servicing UPB were mostly offset by decreases in the capitalized portfolio.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by higher payoffs and continued high portion of our loan production on a fee for service basis and an increase in the sale of newly created MSRs.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 93 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.1 billion representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
The MSR valuation on our capitalized loan servicing portfolio and the capitalized servicing multiple declined from 3.3 times at the end of the second quarter.
Our initial capitalization rate of newly created MSRs was 109 basis points for the nine months ended of September 30 2014.
Prepayments fees increased slightly in the third quarter to an annualized average CPR for approximately 12% as compared to 11% for the second quarter of 2014.
While primary mortgage rates were virtually unchanged on the quarter ends June and September mortgage rate fluctuations during the quarter of as much as 20 basis points drove the increase in prepayment activity.
During the third quarter we completed approximately $19 million in sales of newly created mortgage servicing rates as compared to $6 million in the second quarter.
Along with two harbors we now have an arrangement with Pingora Loan Servicing to sell newly created MSRs and both parties acquired MSRs in the third quarter.
We are sub servicing the underlying loans and we expect the combined value of the sale price of these MSR and the net present value of the sub servicing of the underlying loans to at least equal the value we would have ascribed to the MSRs if they had been retained by PHH.
We continued to make steady progress during the third quarter with regards to MSR secured funding.
We currently believe that from a structuring standpoint the effective advance rate of such a transaction would be approximately 55% of the servicing fee slightly lower than our initial expectations.
In addition potential GSC restrictions on the use of proceeds may narrow the deployment of funds to more growth and reinvestment oriented strategies and less towards capital management strategies.
We still believe MSR secured funding could represented a valuable funding alternative for PHH and as such we will continue to work towards this objective in the months ahead.
Turning to slides 13 and 14 during the third quarter our repurchase and foreclosure related reserve decreased to $103 million from $110 million at the end of the second quarter and $142 million at the end of 2013.
The total dollar amount of unresolved loan repurchase requests at the end of the third quarter declined to $64 million from $86 million at the end of the second quarter driven by a continued decline in the pipeline of both agency and private repurchase requests.
In October 2014 the company entered into a resolution agreement with Fannie Mae for a net payment of $13 million to resolve substantially all outstanding and certain future repurchase and makeover quests related to the sale of mortgage loans that were originated and delivered prior to July 1 of 2012.
The resolution payment was fully reserved for as of September 30 2014.
As of the end of the third quarter our estimate for reasonably possible losses declined to $20 million from $25 million at the end of the second quarter.
Now moving to slide 15 with regard to liquidity we closed the third quarter with approximately $1.7 billion in unrestricted cash and investment securities.
Key changes in our cash balance during the quarter included $1.4 billion in cash proceeds from the sale of our fleet management business a $200 million payment related to the accelerated share repurchase program and approximately $450 million for the repayment of our senior convertible notes due September 2014 and the early redemption of our senior notes due 2016.
As you can see we have earmarked $500 million for tax payments expected to be made in the fourth quarter of this year mostly related to taxes on our gain on the fleet transaction.
Our other liquidity based key cash requirements are unchanged from the last quarter.
Turning to slide 16 our book value per basic share at the end of the third quarter was $31.06.
The significant sequential quarter increase in book value per basic share from $26.49 at the end of the second quarter was primarily driven by the gain on sale from the fleet transaction and the approximately 7 million shares that were retired as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program.
There were 50.8 million common shares issued and outstanding at the end of the third quarter and 53.8 million weighted average basic common shares outstanding in the third quarter as the share retirement occurred in the month of August.
Through October 31 the average repurchase price under the ASR program was $22.84.
If the volume weighted average price of our common stock remains the same through the end of the term of the repurchasing agreement we would retire approximately 1.8 million additional shares.
Turning to slide 17 we continue to provide certain transition services to Element Financial related to the fleet transaction for information technology human resources and finance services.
In the third quarter we incurred $6 million in operating expenses and $6 million in offsetting revenue from reimbursements related to the transition services agreement both of which were recognized in our other segment.
The TSA had no meaningful net impact on our third quarter earnings.
With regards to regulatory matters in October 2014 the company met with members of the Multi–State Mortgage Committee along with representatives of certain state attorneys general and the CFPB to formal review the MMC’s examination findings and our response.
In order to resolve the findings and the exchange for a release of possible enforcement actions the MMC has proposed that the company enter into a settlement agreement and consent order that includes adoption of national servicing standards payments to certain borrowers nationwide whose loans went into foreclosure during a stated period of time other consumer relief and administrative penalties.
While we continue to believe we have meritorious defenses to the findings we have indicated our willingness to adopt the servicing standards set out in the MMC’s proposal with certain caveats and continued discussions on other aspects of the proposal.
We have not yet been informed of the amount of payment sought for relief or penalties under the agreement and there can be no assurance that a settlement will be reached.
Now I will turn it over back to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
Last quarter we laid out our plan to deploy our excess cash from the closing of the fleet transaction.
Since then we’ve executed on a number of fronts.
We funded the first $200 million of our plan to return a total of up to $450 million to shareholders.
We’ve repaid $420 million in face value of unsecured debt reducing our total unsecured balance to within our target range.
We are executing on our reengineering plans with expense reduction actions that are expected to deliver 75% of our total targeted annual operating benefits.
We are working diligently with our private label clients to attempt to conclude our discussions by yearend.
And we’ve increased our retail market share to 5%.
We are building our regional community bank pipeline.
We’ve opened our Houston &amp; Dallas offices and we are expanding business opportunities with our relocation clients.
Successful realization of our capital structure reengineering and growth initiatives should allow us to attain double digit to mid-teen ROEs on average across purchase and refinancing market cycles.
I want to recognize and thanks PHH’s board of directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
With that we are ready to take questions.
Christie? Thank you (Operator Instructions).
We will take our first question from Bose George with KBW Investment Bank.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi guys good morning.
Actually first can you just go back to the comment about the percentage of that $160 million of upfront cost that will be expensed versus capitalized and just what the timeframe for that is? Sure Bose.
So as we mentioned we’ve got $160 million of investment which is tied to our expense reduction initiatives.
We expect 45% of it to be expensed over the next nine months and our remaining 55% to be capitalized investments over the 24 months.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then should you have an update on when you think you could be breakeven? As we mentioned in the earnings release we said that we expect to be -- to generate in a loss making position through the first half of 2015 and then return to profitability in the second half.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one.
In terms of the mortgage banking costs the cost to originate a fee based loan versus a funded loan how much does that vary? It varies based on client specific origination requirements as well as the underlined borrow profile and the product profile.
Quite frankly Bose there could be a fairly wide variation depending upon the specific contractual service requirements by each client.
We’ll go next with Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
Can you just go back a little bit to this Multi-State Mortgage Committee update? You mentioned that you set some money aside but in the discussion so far there has been no monetary figures thrown out there yet.
Did I hear that correct? So Paul Rob commented that we have had an update with the Multi-State Mortgage Committee.
While they haven’t specified any specific amount of fines or penalties as a matter of course as we go through and update our legal and regulatory reserves we do have to take into consideration any and all updates and conversations on any of the legal and regulatory matters that we have and the MMC was included in that review.
Okay and then the losses that get overturned in California the $16 million you didn’t reserve for that did you? I know there was a lot of discussion that was never going to make it really through the next court system but that doesn’t free up any reserves.
Am I correct? As a matter of course Paul we don’t disclosure publically any reserves that we take on specific legal cases.
Okay and the other question I had is you’re saying that -- and this was on slide – when you were talking about on Slide 12.
You talked about selling some product to two harbors in I guess Pingora.
I don’t know.
I’m not familiar with that company.
Is that a REIT? Rob go ahead.
Pingora is -- Paul I do believe is a REIT and is in the same business as two was in and are looking to acquire flow servicing.
We’ve seen some deals go to pretty high multiples.
They weren’t flow servicing deals.
I don’t know really – I haven’t got any flow servicing pricing but I know we’ve seen some deals go 130 135 out there and you are saying you’re selling them at effectively where you’re booking them at 109? I’m not sure if I connect both those dots.
I think what I said is that we’re selling it at least equal to where we would have booked it had we retained it along with the value of the sub-servicing.
So I think – but I’m more comfortable saying at least equal to.
At least equal to? Then Glen one last question on the fact that I know it’s quite clear it’s been out there that you probably won’t make any money until the second half of next year.
Is most of the contracts -- because correct me if I’m wrong the reason why you’re struggling is because you have to re-negotiate the fee contracts because the expenses on -- the expenses in both servicing and originations is greater than those contracts am I correct? As in most of the loss is going to flow through in the mortgage bank or the servicing side? Is it the mortgage bank that’s going to absorb these losses? As we’ve said Paul the majority of the loss in our production segment is due to the high mix of fee based business.
So we are seeing most of the pressure related to our private label contracts in production.
Then should we see this start to go away? Give us a road map if you can.
Is it -- should it be pretty much cleared to out of there by the second half and that mortgage production side depending on where mortgage rates are should be on the positive side by the third quarter? Paul as we said in the script assuming current market levels of interest rates and volumes persist that we do expect to return to profitability in the second half of next year.
We’ll go next to Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning and thanks for the update on the strategic initiatives.
Just to follow on the PLS contract re- negotiations is that embedded in the outlook for profitability in second half 2015 or could resolution by year end potentially affect how quickly you are able to re-price? And could there be a scenario where profitability is achieved a little bit quicker than current forecast? Cheryl our statement of returning to profitability in the second half of 2015 assumes we fully realize the benefits of our re-engineering initiatives of $225 million in annualized operating benefits.
And as I mentioned on the call that includes both our expense actions as well as the benefits of re-negotiating our contracts.
Okay and then just on the other gross initiatives as you’re a few months into considering the alternatives at this point is there anything that stands out as a near term opportunity than others? Is there a different way? Is there something that you’re expect that is easily executable near term and longer term on maybe some of the other initiatives? I know you called out specifically the mass affluent opportunity.
Just wondering particularly in terms of the top 25 purchase markets where you’ve obviously expanded into a couple of markets this quarter relative to maybe the other real estate opportunities? Cheryl I do view your organic growth opportunities to be the most immediately actionable.
And within that segment I think I mentioned that capturing our clients mass affluent customer segment is dependent upon the PLS contract re-negotiations.
So I think we need to get that done first.
I really I’m excited about our relationship with Realogy.
We get terrific support from the executive leadership team at Realogy and quite frankly the Realogy operations across the country.
We continue to demonstrate retail loan mortgage loan closings in the Realogy joint ventures that outpaced the industry.
We’ve put in some new programs on the relocation side to expand the potential benefit of that segment of our relationship with Realogy.
And we continue to invest in opening our office in the top 25 home purchase markets.
I think as I look at the business I really do get excited about the relationship that I have with Realogy and the potential that that relationship has.
Okay great.
Just one last one for me.
On the MSR funding opportunity could you just give us a little bit more color? There was a comment on potential GSC restrictions.
I was just wondering if you could flesh that out a little bit more.
Rob do you want to take that one? Sure Cheryl.
Yeah we do believe based on our continuing discussions with the agencies that their -- the use of funds from any transaction may be limited by what’s in the agency guides right now absent any exceptions that are granted.
And they’re more focused towards re-investment and growth of new production new MSR just what’s outlined in the guidelines.
There could be some limitations on the deployment of those funds.
We’ll go next to Brad Ball with Evercore.
Thanks.
Do you expect the proportion of production the two thirds fee-based business to remain at that level even after completing the contract renegotiations? Brad right now I don’t see anything that would lead us to believe that the mix of fee-based production would change materially in the foreseeable future.
Okay and just to gauge your confidence in closing or completing the contract renegotiations by year end can you give us a sense as to how far along you are? I think it was a couple of quarters ago you told us you had completed about 20%.
Any sense you can give us as to where you are or should we expect that this could hit yearend target or bleed into next year? I don’t know that I can provide any more detail than I already did on the call.
Our clients our largest clients remain highly engaged.
As we’ve said before these contracts are covered under confidentiality agreements and that the dialogue that we’re having with them is confidential in nature.
We continue these discussions and our goal is to work with our clients to get completed through these discussions by year end.
When you say -- you said in your prepared remarks that the model with our largest clients could change what did you mean by that? Does that mean that you may not be changing the PLS model with your non-large clients? My comments are really focused on the nature of the conversation to provide -- with our largest clients to provide some color in terms of it is a broad based discussion.
We have -- we are covering a number of aspects of our relationship because of all the changes in the mortgage and banking industries which affects both us and our clients.
As such we are making sure that any of the renegotiations and amendments to our contracts do contemplate all of our needs.
Okay and then just to clarify if you complete the contract renegotiation by year end but you’re saying you’re not going to be profitable until the second half of next year so what is the main driver of the losses that you expect for the first half of next year? As we laid out in the discussion of our reengineering plans execution of our expense reduction actions will take up to nine months to complete.
So we expect that to phase in over a nine month period.
You’re pretty confident and so much of the 225 is in expense reductions that regardless of the market environment you’ll be able to get most of that over the next nine to 12 months? We remain committed to deliver $175 million.
That was based on assuming current market levels of interest rates and volumes persist.
So it doesn’t assume that there’s a drop in volume or anything to achieve that number.
I should point out that to the extent volume is up materially year over year that obviously direct variable expenses in production would go up in accordance with volume and certain indirect expenses for processing underwriting closing may go up as well which may alter that number.
But again assuming no change in volume in the interest rate environment we would expect to realize $175 million of annualized operating benefits.
Got you.
But presumably an improving environment would be good for the revenue line.
So even if you don’t get the 175 that would be a positive still? Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Good morning everyone and thank you for taking my call I just wanted to pick up where Brad left off and maybe I’ll do it in my own way.
175 million is about43 a quarter.
And your expenses for this quarter were 281.
So as a starting point to the 281 in addition to the severance costs and the (inaudible) of reserving what are the costs you would subtract from that number to get a sense of what the running total overhead number is as of the September quarter? I think that Rob laid through No I’m just looking at the $281 million of overhead you reported.
What should we subtract from that to get in – should we take out – is the $8 million in there? Is the $20 million in there? What other figures are in the $281 million of overhead that we should subtract out as a starting point.
Rob can you provide a roadmap for Henry what was reported? I think it’s the debt retirement I think may be the only one you missed.
So the debt retirement the severance and the legal and regulatory reserves.
And that would all be in the 281? Yes.
And then is it as simple as saying say a year from now all things being equal in other words it’s a $10 billion mortgage market you’re originating at about the same pace that you are servicing and origination cost would be $40 million lower when this process is finished.
On a constant volume basis? Yeah.
You’re just assuming a $10 billion $12 billion recorder run rate which is about where you are now.
Here is what I would suggest because there are fluctuations from quarter to quarter.
Henry if you want try and relate the savings that Glen outlined to a base line I’d use the first nine months of the year annualized less these items that we’ve detailed.
And I think that probably gives you a more reasonable base from which to then apply any savings.
And then in terms of looking at origination activity very very small wholesale number.
Are we to assume that’s all (inaudible) and that that’s the starting point for rebuilding that business banks and credit unions and comparable.
Henry I’m not sure I understand the question.
I was just looking at the correspondent wholesale origination number very small as it has been for some time.
And should we assume this is the starting point for any rebuilding of that business? Henry our outlook on the correspondence business hasn’t changed.
We continue to participate in the correspondence business with we believe to be high quality long term relationships sellers.
And obviously we run the correspondent channel to a profit and a cash consumption target and originate business that fits that profile.
We’ll go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous.
Good morning guys.
Just quickly with the expenses for the cost program are those coming or will those be coming in core earnings or not? Yes.
And then on the capitalized amount is that direct fixed investment that will be reflected on the tangible investment or will it become some type of intangible asset creation? Those will be tangible assets.
Tangible assets.
On the $150 million of investments you drive potential of $175 million annual benefit.
Can you just walk us through? I’m trying to get my head around over 100% annual return on your investment in that.
What exactly will drive that and how are the returns so high? Rob do you want to cover that? Sure.
I think as we detailed the growth strategy there’s two pieces to it.
One would be organic related and that is going to have a relatively high return from an investment standpoint.
The extent that we open markets or increase capture rates some of the things that Glen talked about that in and of itself is going to have very high multiple return.
And the rest of it is going to be to the extent that we find inorganic opportunities and based on some of the hurdle rates that Glen has laid out that will generate the balance of say the benefits.
Okay that makes sense.
On the MMC CFTD conversations how do you think about capital and liquidity for a potential unknown settlement amount or whatever as you defended you have your core legal costs and for loss.
What should we think about on cash being held back for that? We do include in our key cash requirements – I’ll call it a general basket for a number of matters to include legal and regulatory.
Okay and then just you mentioned that you are willing to accept the national mortgage servicing standards or some caveats.
At least every servicer we’ve seen that I’ve seen has let to increase in costs.
Is that included in your future guidance or would that be a potential headwind moving forward? As we’ve reviewed those standards they’re substantially similar to what we’re already doing for the state of New Jersey.
So while there may be some incremental cost we don’t believe it would be material.
(Operators instructions) we’ll go next to Point Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
In regards to the MSR sale to Pingora do you have a contractual amount of MSRs or UPB that you need to deliver on any given year similar to the contract that you have with Two Harbors currently? Kevin it’s Rob.
We do not and actually I want to clarify one thing I stated earlier Pingora is actually an management company and is not constituted as a REIT.
But back to your question we are not contractually obligated to certain amounts.
So would it be market based pricing between Two Harbors and Pingora or is Pingora just a bidder on those assets and you decide to sell to them or not on any given quarter or month at the time? Look I think our objective for the program was to create as much liquidity as we could by hopefully attracting a core stable of partners.
We are pleased that we’ve got two great firms now and it’s really -- it a competitive basis.
Okay and then in regards to the $40 million mark down in the MSR this quarter you mentioned that it was primarily due to a flattening of the yield curve.
But was there any other market assumptions or any other assumptions that you change within the fair value MSR that may have accentuated the markdown this quarter? There were some model adjustments but the primary driver was the flattening of the yield curve and it’s just going to create lower forward rates and that’s just going to drive higher prepayments in our prepayment model.
It’s primarily related to the shape of the yield curve.
And then in regards to the legal settlement the legal and regulatory reserve that you put up this quarter was that in regards to several issues or one particular issue? In establishing our reserves we look at all of our legal and regulatory matters in the aggregate.
From a GAAP perspective obviously you have to evaluate each case individually on its merits.
But the amount reflects an update to a number of items of which obviously MMC was one of them.
Out of the several things that you disclosed in your 10-Q would one of those issues potentially go away with this $22 million reserve that you put up? I don’t necessarily know they can draw a direct connection between booking additional reserves and the aggregate for a number of matters in any individual case going away.
There will be updated disclosure in our Q on each one of the material matters both the MMC the CFPB and others.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Christine thank you very much.
Thank you everyone for joining the call this morning.
We look forward to talking to you on our next earnings update after the first of the year.
This concludes the PHH Corporation third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 1625773.
It will be archived until November 20 2014.
You may now disconnect.
