Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company’s remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today’s call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company’s website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9626580 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until March 5 2015.
This access information is also described in the company’s press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Jim Ballan Vice President of Investor Relations will proceed with the introduction.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our fourth 2014 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pretax core earnings or loss after-tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying Investor Presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter then my remarks will focus primarily on our reengineering actions including our PLS contract renegotiations our growth initiatives and some thoughts on the current environment.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Please turn to Slide 4.
In 2014 we took an important step forward with the sale of fleet business which provided us with the financial flexibility we've not previously had.
With this flexibility we are returning significant capital to our shareholders reducing our unsecured debt level to our target range executing on our reengineering plans working diligently with our private label clients and executing our growth plans.
I am excited about 2015 and beyond for PHH.
We intend to operate more efficiently maintain our focus on quality compliance in customer service as well as diversify and expand our revenue opportunities.
We believe we are in a very strong position that continued to deliver shareholder value.
As we previously mentioned until we've completed our reengineering plans we expect PHH to generate core losses.
Consistent with those expectations in the fourth quarter we reported a $32 million net loss from continuing operations attributable to PHH Corporation and our core loss after-tax for the quarter was $24 million.
There were a few items of note in the quarter.
Our results reflect a $12 million unfavorable market related MSR value fair value adjustment net of related derivative gains.
And $6 million in pretax charges related to legal and regulatory reserves.
In addition we are pleased to have execute an agreement for the sale of approximately $3 billion in UPB of highly delinquency Ginnie Mae servicing.
Our mortgage production segment recorded a loss primarily related to the continued high mix of fee-based business in PLS channel.
The majority of our contracts operate at a loss on a fully allocated basis throughout the year.
The mix of fee-based business appears to have stabilized around two thirds of total production.
Total loan application volume was up 6% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was also up 6% which compares favorably to the fourth quarter results for the overall industry which is down 8% as reported by the MBA.
We increased our retail market share by approximately 1.7 percentage points in the third quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of 2013 as reported by IMF.
In the fourth quarter total loan margins grew by 13 basis points compared to the third quarter.
We believe total loan margins continue to reflect pricing discipline in the retail loan origination market.
In addition total mortgage production expenses were down 13% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
In our Mortgage Servicing Segment we reported a $1 million core loss pretax.
Mortgage quality related charges and servicing were down 67% in 2014 compared to the previous year.
The lower core loss relative to the third quarter was primarily related to an improvement non market related MSR fair value adjustments and improvement in representation and warranty charges and lower legal and regulatory reserves taken in the quarter.
As we said last quarter we continue to expect to report negative core earnings on a consolidated basis through the first half of 2015.
Assuming market conditions and interest rate levels experienced in the second half of 2014 persist with the implementation of reengineering and growth initiatives we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding one time items.
Please turn to Slide 5.
We remained focused on our reengineering initiatives and on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits in these initiatives with one time investments of up to $200 million.
This include up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits related to expense reduction actions which will require one time investment of up to $160 million.
As we previously discussed our focus for reengineering is in three key areas.
Organization redesign and facilities process improvements and vendor management and consolidation.
I am pleased with the progress we are making on reengineering.
As of February 13 we've completed the necessary actions to capture at least 35% of our targeted annualized operating benefits.
The realization of benefits associated with these actions is expected to occur within the timeframe we specified last quarter.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Since our last earnings call we've made significant progress on our private label contract renegotiations.
With clients representing approximately 50% of 2014 total PLS closing volume we are at or near the end of contract negotiations and we have achieved our target objective.
For our remaining PLS clients we have mutually agreed to extend our negotiations to address their unique program requirements and potentially expand the scope of services to be provided.
Of these remaining PLS clients the clients representing approximately 30% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume we believe we've made significant progress and we anticipate completing these negotiations to achieve our target objectives by the end of the second quarter.
For those clients representing the final 20% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume they remain highly engaged and we continue to work diligently with them to conclude these negotiations as soon as possible.
We believe our clients' high level engagement and desire to work with us is reflective of the value for outsourcing servicing and the spirit of our partnership.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective to ensure these discussions result in an outcome that meets both our clients' needs as well as our own.
We are highly appreciative of our clients' efforts to work with us during these renegotiations.
We believe the sizable changes we are making to these contracts are positive changes for us and our clients; however we can make no assurances that these clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
Now please turn to Slide 7.
I want to talk for a moment about relationship with Realogy.
As you know we maintain a joint venture with Realogy of which own 50.1% that contributed 87% of loan originations in our retail Real Estate channel in 2014.
Our joint venture agreement with Realogy continues until January 31 2055 unless terminated earlier.
Beginning on February 1 2015 Realogy has the right at any time to give us two years notice of their intent to terminate their interest in PHH Home Loans and the strategic relationship.
We have been informed by Realogy that they do not currently intend to exercise this option.
At present they remain highly-engaged in strategic and operational matters pertaining to the joint venture.
And continue to work diligently to contribute to the joint venture success.
We believe we have a strong relationship with Realogy and we look forward to continuing to work with them to grow the joint venture as the purchase market recovers.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
We intend to invest up to $150 million for selective growth opportunities over the next 24 months.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earnings stream and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure and capabilities to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand the target market for our mortgage program to include our clients' mass affluent customer base.
The timing of implementation of this growth strategy will be influenced by the outcome of our private label contract renegotiations.
We are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base especially to regional and community banks.
We are encouraged by the initial response from perspective clients in this sector and we are pleased that how that pipeline is developing for both standardized services and traditional private label services.
In our real estate channel we remain focused on continuing improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improve capture rate.
We are also expanding our preferred mortgage program by marketing our mortgage services to all the employees of our relocation client as opposed to just relocating employees.
We now have the total of 19 clients participating in the program and are in various stages of conversations with several potential partners.
Also in a real estate channel we have opened new origination offices in the Houston Dallas Los Angeles Orlando and Boston market.
We intend to continue to opportunistically expand our coverage in the Top 25 home purchase market in 2015 and 2016.
In our Mortgage Servicing Segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both owned servicing and subservicing.
In 2014 we signed contracts with seven new subservicing clients and on boarded 28 000 loans or approximately $7 billion in unpaid principal balance.
We also expect these contracts to provide a significant flow of subservicing loan growth going forward.
We continue to build the pipeline of subservicing client opportunity and we are excited about this potential contribution to the profitability of our mortgage servicing segment.
We believe there are multiple profit improvement opportunities for our servicing segment including reducing the delinquency rate of our total servicing portfolio reducing foreclosure related and REO charges related to the VA no bid loans increases an interest income on ex growth and the benefits of our reengineering initiatives.
Finally we also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities.
We believe the combination of current market conditions and our strong capital liquidity position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We are targeting purchase market focused retail platforms with the strong culture of compliance and growth that can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of growth opportunities our near-term priorities remain reengineering operations renegotiating our private label contracts and most recently managing our capacity to accommodate the surge in origination activity.
We intent to provide further detail on our growth initiatives as they develop.
Now please turn to Slide 9.
Before I turn it over Rob I want to make a few comments about the recent changes in the residential mortgage origination environment.
With the decline in mortgage interest rate in the month of January we've seen a significant pick-up in refinancing and purchase applications.
Total January 2015 application volume was up 62% from January 2014 and 9% greater than our peak month for all of 2014.
We are adding resources to accommodate the surge in origination activity.
As a result direct variable and indirect variable operating costs in our mortgage production segment are likely to increase in the first quarter.
I mentioned this because I want to remind you that our reengineering cost reduction goals were based stable origination volume levels.
In addition because of this expected increase in origination volume some of our reengineering such as facilities consolidation may be delayed as not to disrupt operations in the midst of a refi wave.
Although the timing may move out a bit I want to reiterate that we fully expect to achieve our stated target annualized operating benefits from reengineering.
You should also expect us to scale our resources based on the current anticipated environment.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 10 and notable items are shown on slide 11.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $33 million or $0.66 per basic share.
The net loss from continuing operation attributable to PHH Corporation was $32 million or $0.62 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $88 million or $1.64 per basic share in the third quarter of 2014.
Core loss after tax and core loss per share in the fourth quarter which excludes a net MSR mark and the result of discontinued operations were $24 million and $0.47 per share respectively.
This compares to a core loss after tax of $64 million and a core loss per share of $1.19 in the third quarter of 2014.
Our fourth quarter results as compared to last quarter reflect a production environment of lower closings and locks but wider margins leading to a slightly narrower loss.
The servicing segment benefit from the lower rep and warrant cost and lower legal and regulatory reserves.
Included in notable items this quarter was $12 million net market related fair value adjustment to our MSR.
In 2014 we incurred a total of $15 million in severance expenses related to our reengineering initiatives.
We expect the remainder of reengineering investment to be incurred over our previously disclosed timeframe.
Now moving to Slide 12.
In the fourth quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $26 million compared to $28 million segment loss in the third quarter.
Loan closings fell 5% in the fourth quarter along with the 13% sequential quarter decline in interest rate lock commitments expected to close.
While total application volumes fell 4% to $10.9 billion refi application volume rose to $5.8 billion up 17% as compared to the third quarter driven by the decline in rates in the fourth quarter.
Total loan margin in the fourth quarter widened to 291 basis points as compared to 278 basis points in the previous quarter increasing for the second quarter in a row.
Total loan margin continue to increase in the month of January to 311 basis points reflecting a strong increase in refi demand.
Fee based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 68% in the fourth quarter up from 65% in each of the first three quarters of 2014 and above the fourth quarter of 2013 level of 61%.
We expect to see improving profitability as the year progresses as a result of the progress we've made renegotiating our PLS contracts.
Now please turn to Slide 13.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a segment loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to a segment loss of $71 million in the third quarter of 2014.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of negative $12 million in the fourth quarter and negative $40 million in the previous quarter.
Primary mortgage rate fell 30 basis points between September 30th and December 31st resulting in $68 million negative market related MSR mark-to-market adjustment.
Our hedge portfolio for the same period gained $56 million and outperformed our historical coverage ratio due to the increase in value of our in the money swaption position.
We would expect our hedge coverage ratio to exceed historical level should rates move lower in the near term.
Fourth quarter 2014 mortgage servicing core loss pretax was $1 million compared to $31 million core loss pretax in the third quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter improvement was due to $14 million less in legal and regulatory reserves $7 million improvement in non market related MSR fair value adjustments and $7 million from a decrease in repurchase and foreclosure related charges.
Total loan servicing portfolio of $227 billion in UPB at the end of the fourth quarter 2014 was up slightly from the third quarter of 2014 as increases in sub servicing UPB were mostly offset by decreases in the capitalized portfolio.
The decline in the capitalized servicing portfolio was driven primarily by volumes of saleable closings and the sale of newly created and existing MSRs.
At the end of the fourth quarter we valued our MSR at 89 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1 billion representing a 3.1x capitalized servicing multiple.
The capitalization rate declined from 93 basis points and the multiple declines from 3.2x both at the end of third quarter.
Actual prepayments fees decreased slightly in the fourth quarter to an annualized average CPR of approximately 11% as compared to 12% for the third quarter of 2014.
During the fourth quarter we completed $25 million in MSR sales as compared to $19 million in the third quarter.
This includes the sale of newly created mortgage servicing rights as we've done for the past few quarters and the sale of our high delinquency Ginnie Mae portfolio.
Now moving to Slide 14.
With regards to liquidity we closed the fourth quarter with approximately $1.2 billion on restricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities as compared to $1.6 billion of cash in investment securities at the end of the third quarter.
The key cause of the change for our cash balance during the quarter was approximately $500 million in tax payments mostly related to our gain in the sale of fleet business.
This is partially offset by cash generated from the sale of MSRs and a net change in hedge collateral postings.
Our key cash requirements now totaled $275 million $375 million unchanged from the prior quarter after accounting for the tax payment.
Now please turn to Slide 15.
Our agent continues to execute on our $200 million Accelerated Share Repurchase program or ASR which we expect to complete by the end of this quarter.
Through January 30th the average repurchase price under the ASR program was $23.23.
If the volume weighted average price of our common stock remains the same through the expiration of the program we would retire approximately 1.65 million additional shares with no additional cash outlay.
Book value for basic share at the end of the fourth quarter was $30.21 based on 51.1 million basic shares outstanding.
The sequential quarter decrease from $31.06 at the end of the third quarter was primarily driven by operating losses in the quarter the unfavorable net MSR mark and increase in shares issued in outstanding.
Now please turn to Slide 16.
Regarding regulatory matters in November 2014 the Administrative Law Judge assigned to our CFPB reinsurance matter issued a recommended decision that PHH ordered to pay $6.4 million to the CFPB in connection with past activities.
We are disappointed with the recommended decision and continue to believe we complied with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and other laws applicable to our mortgage reinsurance activities in all respects.
Both PHH and the CFPB’s Enforcement Division are appealing the decision to the CFPB’s director.
There can be no assurances as to the final outcome of any such appeals.
And there can be no assurance the ultimate resolution of this matter will not result in losses which could be material to the Company’s results of operations cash flows or financial position.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Please turn to Slide 17.
In 2014 we took an important step forward with the sale of our fleet business.
Which provided us with the financial flexibility to return $200 million of capital to our shareholders reduce our unsecured debt by $435 million to within our target range execute on the reengineering plans and have made solid progress on the organization redesign vendor management and process improvement work streams? Work diligently with our private label client and/ or at or near the end of contract negotiations and have achieved target objectives with clients representing approximately 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume.
And execute our growth plans and it increased our retail market share by approximately 1.7 percentage points in the third quarter of 2014 from the third quarter of 2013.
I am excited about 2015 and beyond for PHH.
We intend to operate more efficiently maintain our focus on quality compliance and customer service as well as diversify and expand our revenue opportunities.
We believe we are in a very strong position to continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Catherine? [Operator Instructions] We will go first to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Hey guys thank you very much.
On the buyback you said that the ASR program is done by the end of the quarter.
What are your plans to complete the buyback? Are you are going to complete it in the nine months or we enter into another ASR program? Paul as we have discussed on previous earnings calls immediately following the ASR the business has received Board approval for an open market share repurchase plan.
At the present time there is no change in our share repurchase plans.
Obviously the timing and magnitude of repurchase will be based on market conditions at that time.
Okay.
And then real quick follow up question.
You talked about $80 billion and your goal is to get $80 billion in total in production.
You are roughly in that $40 billion to $50 billion range today.
I know you are going to be a little soft on this question relatively speaking but do you need an acquisition to get $80 billion? Or you think you can do it with organic growth.
And how long you think it'd take to get there? Paul as we laid out we do believe we are going to pursue both organic and inorganic growth opportunities to achieve the $80 billion target.
And any goal of the timing on that? I think as we laid out in our Board presentation we expect to execute our growth plans over the next 12 to 24 months.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to touch upon the growth initiatives a little bit more.
And obviously looking to invest about $150 million over the next couple of years.
I just wanted to touch upon that the various buckets a little bit more.
I think the private label you spoke to would be a little bit more tied to contract renegotiations and though.
We'd expect we could be about 80% through by mid year.
And then on the real estate some good expansion in to the key market I guess can we maybe just spend a little bit time of thinking about the pace of investments spend given some of the puts and takes here and obviously I've realized the inorganic growth is sort of separate from that.
Cheryl as I laid out for Paul and as we've laid out in previous shareholder presentations we do expect to invest to deliver our growth -- on our growth objectives over the next 12 to 24 months.
As you had mention to extent if there is an M&amp;A opportunity those investments would be opportunistic and lumpy.
They are focused we are focused on as we said retail purchase market focused origination platforms that share the same focus on quality and compliance that we do.
In terms of our investments and the real estate channel as we talked about opening our top or expanding in the top 25 home purchase markets you could expect that will -- we would maintain the pace that we've had so far over the last six to nine months.
We plan to do that on a fairly steady methodical basis.
And then just in terms of the private label renegotiations you layout you think you are able to get the next 30% by the end of second quarter and then profitability increasing as we go out throughout the year.
I guess how should we think about we are sort of 80% through is that getting close to the tipping point or I guess the economics are different across the contracts so maybe just a little bit more color on that would be helpful.
That's correct Cheryl.
The economics do differ amongst each client's contract.
I do believe that what we have achieved so far in terms of 30% being at or near the end of negotiations is a great progress.
And as I mentioned we achieved our target objectives in doing that.
Another 30% as you mentioned we expect to get through by the end of the second quarter.
I really like our private label business model with 80% of the contracts renegotiated to where we've achieved our target objective.
And but obviously getting to a 100% would be better but again I really do like getting to a good position where 80% is completed.
Thank you.
And we will continue on to Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Good morning.
You mentioned that there was non- market changes to the fair value the MSR this quarter in the press release.
Was that entirely reliant on the -- or related to the highly delinquent Ginnie Mae portfolio that was sold or were there other changes in the valuation of the MSR? Kevin I'll ask Rob to answer that question.
Yes.
Hi Kevin.
That was just -- it's really just related to prepayments and receipts of recurring cash flows.
So we used the -- we tried to use the term value and capsulated everything but market related adjustments so it's just normal basically pay downs in prepayments.
So is that an accelerated -- are you seeing better prepayment speeds than your current assumption of roughly 10.3% as recorded in the third quarter? So the prepayment speeds in the quarter were on an annualized basis was about 11%.
So they were down slightly from the third quarter which basically improved the value of the MSR with respect to that one line item.
Obviously rates fell during the quarter and into the first quarter.
And so prepayments fees going forward in the first quarter may pick up from that point.
So what is the prepayment fees assumed in the MSR now with that adjustment? The life time CPR? Yes.
Will be in the K when we file it.
Okay.
And then could you help us understand the location or -- of the different expense saves that you have incurred so far with your reengineering process whether it is in the salary expense whether it is in other operating expenses and how to think about that in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Kevin during the fourth quarter there were no saving realized in a financial statements related to our reengineering initiatives.
The savings will come through us -- we have described previously in our presentation.
Speaking more generally in terms of where we would expect to what line items the savings would come through our organization redesign efforts would impact primarily salaries and related expenses.
So you would expect to see a reduction there other than for the increases in staffing that we are putting in place for the surge in origination activities.
Facilities expenses would also appear -- Rob I don't know if you have a -- Occupancy Occupancy is a line item that they get reported on.
Vendor management cost typically would be in professional fees.
And then the remainder there would be some remainder of expenses that would fall into other operating expense category.
Thank you.
And we will now go to Bose George KBW Hi guys good morning.
Actually first is a follow up on the cost side.
The cost in the other segment went down quite a bit.
But is there anything unusual there? Was it something reallocated or was it just a reduction and that's a good run rate going forward? Rob would you like to address that? Yes.
I think Bose if I remember correctly we had an unallocated expense last quarter in other related to early debt retirement.
Okay great thanks.
And then just on the MSR can you just discuss the cost of hedging the MSR how we should think about that? And just remind us what the target coverage ratio is on the hedge? Rob would you like to address that as well? Sure.
On the coverage ratio we have historically been in the low 40s I would say percent range we as I pointed in the script given the drop in rate and given our hedge portfolio and some of the swaption that we own they are relatively deep in the money and any further changes in rate lower we get a value pick up that is exceeds what's been in the past just given where rates are.
So that really accounts for the higher than normal coverage ratio.
Look as rates fluctuate as our book matures we would expect to return closer to normalized levels but it is going to be a function of rates and time.
From a hedging perspective we typically are an option based hedger.
We are trying to protect too low rates more than we are sort of using someone that uses swaps.
And the cost of hedging I think was your question is really going to be based on what options we buy how far out of the money they are  where volatility is et cetera.
Okay.
But it is hard to ballpark that in terms of like basis points or -- It really fluctuates.
Okay yes no problem.
And then actually just switching to mortgage volume you gave good information about January when volumes and again on sale.
Just curious what's happening now in February with these rates kind of moving back the other way? Bose I think it is really it is too early to tell whether or not the surge in refinancing activity is going to -- actually refinancing and purchase activity is going to continue as you had mention the 10 year treasury has come up maybe 40ish basis points since the lowest experience during January.
That said on a relative basis with the treasury trading around 210 to 215 that's still about 50 basis points lower than where we were at the beginning of the fourth quarter end of the third quarter.
So relative to recent history it is still as relative low.
So Bose I think time will tell after just how long this surge in activity will last.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Could you describe or characterize your contract negotiations relative to expectations? Had you expected to complete more of the negotiations by yearend and what is it that's causing the delay of the 30% that you described in separately the 20% that you can't put a target date on completion? Brad as we have mentioned in previous calls we do -- these contracts are highly complex.
They are very complex business arrangements.
And to achieve our all of our objectives we are making many changes to these contracts beyond just economic changes.
And to get that done good results quite frankly takes time.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective in these discussions with our clients who want to ensure that the outcome meets our clients' needs as well as our own.
As we indicated on the call earlier for PLS clients representing about half the volume.
We have mutually agreed to extend the negotiation to address their unique program requirements and potentially expand corporate services to be provided.
Our clients have been highly engaged and want to work with us.
We believe that's a testimony to strength of our relationship.
And the importance of the services we offer.
But again good results take time.
We are as we are getting through these negotiations achieving what we set out to achieve but given the complexities arrangement and the change need of both us and our clients good result will take time.
Okay fair enough.
And then in terms of your guidance for returning to profitability in the second half of 2015 what are you assuming in that guidance that you will have completed that 80% that 50% plus 30% by the end of the second quarter and what other assumptions underlie that what interest rate assumption are you expecting January to continue and how would those assumptions change relative to when you first gave that guidance back in the third quarter call back in November December? Relative to general market condition the assumption that the business would return to profitability in the second half of 2015 was assuming that the market and interest rate that were experienced in the second half of 2014 continue through 2015.
As far as what impact the current surge in origination volume will have on that target as I mentioned earlier on the call I think it is too early to tell whether or not this surge in activity is going to last and where interest rate will end up.
But again I think overall those assumptions were based on the environment that existed in the second half of 2015.
In terms of our reengineering assumptions and what was underlying there again I go back to previous guidance and comment that we made for our reengineering actions we had specified for each of the categories of organization redesign and facilities vendor management and process improvement.
A timeframe in which we expected to execute those actions and when those saving would hit the P&amp;L.
Our assumptions they are largely unchanged other than for how the surge in origination activities would expected.
So our assumptions are unchanged on our reengineering actions.
And in terms of our PLS renegotiations our expectations are as we laid out in the call that 50% the benefits associated with the 50% that we renegotiated will materialize in the second half of the year as well that 30%.
Okay that's helpful.
And then finally you talked about inorganic interest acquiring retail origination capabilities.
What about anything on the servicing side? Would you have any interest buying agency MSRs for example to help you get to your $300 billion of UPB in servicing target? As we indicated on I think when back in July when we laid out our overall management framework and capital redeployment actions.
We do want to get the servicing portfolio above $300 billion.
We will consider both organic and inorganic opportunities there.
We have already added on a fair amount of subservicing 28 000 loans during the course of 2014.
And for the right quality portfolio we would consider acquiring servicing.
If we can do it in a way that produces comparable economics to the servicing we originate through our own origination channels.
Does that mean the delinquencies would need to be at or below the average delinquencies in your book before you would acquire an agency book? Delinquency is a very important factor to focusing on.
We are not a special servicer nor do we want to be a special servicer so we are not interested in high delinquency or high credit risk portfolio we would want the attribute to the portfolio to be at or below of the average delinquency profile that we have in our portfolio today.
As well as you might suspect there is a lot of elements that need to be looked at when you acquire a servicing portfolio.
You could expect us to engage in the appropriate level of rigorous diligence to ensure that all the documentation is complete.
There has been adequate performance in the servicing part was taking it.
So it is more than just credit quality.
I would say it is the overall quality of the servicing to include the underlying documentation and supporting.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research Investments.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
On the PHH or sorry -- the PLS contract that we are negotiating how do we think about for the 50% that has been completed some type of unit economics of profitability I guess to go forward? Regarding the 50% that's at or near from completion and quite frankly all of our PLS contracts as you know Chris we don't disclose the pricing terms for those contracts.
That said our economics objective was to have those contracts be profitable on a fully allocated basis.
So you can expect that those contracts would be profitable on a fully allocated basis.
Okay thank you.
On the -- can you give us any type of sense of the potential market share opportunity as you noted that some of these PLS contracts expanding your services to mass -- beyond the mass affluent and to the mass market.
Just relative maybe however you want to frame it a potential volume increase we could see from that? So as we had discussed I believe on our previous call that we believe there is approximately one million potential consumers in the mass affluent customer base across our private label clients.
Hard to estimate what the propensities for those clients who want to purchase a home or refinance their mortgages but we do believe that's a sizeable and potentially very attractive growth opportunity for us.
Okay.
And just housekeeping.
There was an increasing professional fee this quarter-over-quarter was that related to the reengineering issues or is there anything that's more run rating that number? I would ask Rob to address that first.
Yes.
Chris there is nothing that I can point to specifically.
Trying to think back for the quarter we certainly have engaged some resources as we work through some of these reengineering initiatives some outside resources to assist.
But there is nothing notable that comes to mind right now.
Okay.
And did you give an update on the number of top 25 markets that you've entered or how the two that you publicly announced that you entered have performed so far? We did give an update on the markets that we had entered.
So repeating back there is five new markets that we had entered.
Okay.
And how have the first two that you entered performed so far? They are performing consistent with what our expectations were; we have not disclosed individual performance that's on a market level.
But I would say that performance is consistent with what our expectations were.
We will now go to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yes good morning everyone.
I was hoping you could help me a little bit through slide 5.
So you start by talking about $200 million of expenses and then in the block below it is $160 million of expected investment.
What's the difference between the two and the $160 million? Just overall stepping up a level Henry.
As we laid out our reengineering initiatives.
Our reengineering initiatives do include the potential benefits associated with our PLS contract renegotiations.
So the difference between the $225 million in annualized operating benefits and the $175 million in annualized operating benefits from expense reduction actions would benefit that are derived from our PLS contract renegotiations.
And similarly the delta and investment would also be investment required to execute on the benefits associated with PLS.
And then looking at the $160 million figure you expensed approximately 10% of that so far.
That how should we interpret? Yes.
That is the way it should be interpreted And the remaining whatever $145 million is also likely to be expensed or will some of that be capitalized? We would expect to reflect the ratios that are actually on slide 5 there 45% would be operating expense and 55% is -- That's my fault.
I didn't pick that up.
Okay so and then going to slide 8.
Most of that would be capitalized.
We have not previously given guidance on what percentage of that would be capitalized versus expense.
Thank you.
And we will go to Kevin Barker with Compass Point for a follow up.
Yes.
Just wanted to follow up on Chris' question regarding how to think about the PLS contracts profitability going forward? It make sense that you won't talk about the units or the numbers around it but could you help us understand some of your hurdle rate for reinvesting or renegotiating these contracts should we think about it on a -- how much -- how it compares to your cost capital which your earnings yield would be on this particular items what's the -- what the ROE maybe on the investment could you just describe a little bit with your hurdle rate maybe on continuing with these PLS contracts.
Generally within the business there are two return metrics that we use for investment decision.
So for investments that will require the deployment of capital our desire is to achieve at least the 12% after-tax return on my capital.
For those investment decisions that or business decisions that don't require a return a capital outlay or capital deployment our target is generally to maintain a 20% return on revenue or return on sales.
That 20% pretax margin? That's correct on a fully allocated basis.
Thank you.
And with no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to return things back our to PHH management for any additional or closing remarks.
Catherine thank you very much.
And thank you everyone on the call for your continued interest in PHH.
And look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes the PHH Corporation's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9626580.
It will be archived until March 5 2015.
You may now disconnect.