Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company's remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which time I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9398060 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until May 22 2015.
The access information is also described in the company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of the session.
At this time Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications will proceed with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our first quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the headings Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investors section of our website where you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thanks Dico good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the first quarter.
Then my remarks will focus primarily on our reengineering actions including our PLS contract renegotiations our growth initiatives and some thoughts on the current environment then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Now please turn to slide 4 in the first quarter we reported net income of $21 million attributable to PHH Corporation and a core loss after-tax of $20 million.
We continue to execute on the strategies that we're established upon completion of the sale of the Fleet business in 2014.
In the first quarter we reduced our outstanding common shares by an additional $1.574 million due to the successful completion of our accelerated share repurchase programs.
We achieved $11 million of operating benefits as a result of our reengineering actions as compared to the first quarter of 2014 and recorded $10 million in onetime investments in reengineering and growth initiatives.
And we saw in revised contracts with clients representing approximately 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and we continue to make progress with our remaining clients.
Provided that market and industry conditions materialize as expected and the continued successful execution of our reengineering actions we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding onetime items.
I'm pleased with our progress to-date but we have more work to do achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at our targeted return levels will require the continued successful execution of both our reengineering and our growth initiatives.
Now please turn to slide 5 as we have previously stated our Board of Directors has authorized up to $450 million in share repurchases.
This includes the ASR programs completed in March and up to $250 million in open market share repurchases over the 12 months following the completion of the ASR.
As we announced yesterday prior to commencement of the open market share repurchase plan we have launched an exchange offer for our 2017 convertible notes.
We intend to commence the open market share repurchases as soon as legally permitted after the completion of the convertible bond tender.
Our objective is to complete the repurchases on or before March 31 2016.
Any open market share repurchases will be subject to market and business conditions the trading price for common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities.
We are electing to tender for our 2017 convertible notes prior to commencing the open market share repurchase program for several reasons.
This is our most expensive debt with a GAAP interest rate of 13% and an annual interest cost of $32 million The premium at which the notes are traded above par has declined materially and we believe this action can mitigate further potential dilution that could result from the conversion of the tendered notes at maturity that may arise from the continued successful execution of our reengineering and growth actions.
Although a successful exchange offer may move us below the end of our targeted unsecured debt level we believe that the transaction is accretive to shareholders and provides a reasonable return on invested cash given our current and projected liquidity needs.
Now please turn to slide 6 we remain focused on our reengineering initiatives and are on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits from these initiatives.
As of the end of April we have completed at least 55% of the actions necessary to deliver up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits from expense reduction actions.
These actions include organization structure redesign facilities management origination and servicing operations process improvement and vendor management and consolidation.
And as a reminder there can be a time delay between the completion of an action and its related cost savings.
In total we expect to spend $200 million in one-time costs associated with re-engineering.
The timeline for IT investments will be longer than anticipated due to our near-term focus and prioritization on compliance with the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure changes which I'll discuss in more detail later.
Our expected facilities consolidation plans have also been extended as a result of the surge in refinancing activity.
We expect our IT investments will occur over the next 18 months and our facilities actions will occur over the next 12 months.
Now please turn to slide 7 our private label contract renegotiations are progressing consistent with our expectations last quarter.
We have signed and completed contract negotiations with clients representing 50% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and have achieved our business and economic objectives with respect to these contracts.
In the first quarter we realized $4 million in annualized benefits from the economic adjustments to our PLS contracts as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The majority of the annualized benefits from these contracts will be reflected in our financial results in the second quarter.
We are near the end of negotiations with clients representing 30% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume and we should complete these negotiations by the end of the second quarter.
To the extent we are successful.
We would expect to realize the revenue benefits associated with these contracts beginning in the fourth quarter.
For clients representing the remaining 20% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume these clients remain highly engaged.
And we continue to work diligently with them to conclude these negotiations as soon as possible.
We are highly appreciative of our clients’ efforts to work with us during these renegotiations.
We are maintaining a balanced perspective to ensure these decisions result in an outcome that meets both our clients’ needs as well as our own.
We believe our clients’ high level of engagement is reflective of the value of our services and the spirit of our partnership.
However we can make no assurances that these remaining clients will ultimately agree to renew or amend their contracts prior to renewal.
Now please turn to slide 8.
We intend to invest up to a $150 million for selective growth opportunities throughout the balance of 2015 and 2016.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to a $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
Our goal is to diversify our earnings streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure to improve operating efficiency.
In private label services we and our clients desire to expand our mortgage program pending completion of our contract discussions.
And we are developing more standardized service models to expand our client base.
In our real estate channel we remain focused on continuous improvement in relationship management operational execution and customer experience to improve capture rate.
We continue to expand our preferred mortgage program and we have opened new origination offices in 8 of the top 25 home purchase markets.
The timeframe to fully staff these offices is longer than we anticipated due to the surge in refinancing activity and a highly competitive recruiting environment for high performing retail loan officers.
As a result it will take us longer than expected to achieve our target level of performance.
Our focus in the near-term will be fully staffing and achieving target performance levels in the offices we have already opened.
We also continue to consider inorganic growth opportunities.
We believe the eventual transition to a home purchase driven market elevated compliance costs and our strong liquidity and capital position could create opportunities for us to enhance our scale and profitability.
We're targeting purchase market focus platforms for the strong culture of compliance in growth which can leverage our existing support infrastructure.
While we have a number of production related growth opportunities our near-term priorities remain reengineering operations renegotiating our private label contracts and managing our capacity to accommodate the surge in refinancing activity.
We intend to provide further detail on our production growth initiatives as they develop.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale for growth in both on-servicing and sub-servicing.
We believe the largest control level opportunity is in reducing foreclosure and delinquent servicing costs in our own servicing portfolio.
Over the last four quarters we have incurred $57 million in foreclosure and repossession costs in our servicing segment primarily related to the delinquent owned Ginnie Mae servicing.
We continue to pursue a long-term strategy of being a more capital-light fee based business.
However in the near-term we will be taking action to proactively change our owned servicing portfolio composition to reduce delinquent servicing expenses.
To this end we sold $3.3 billion in delinquent Ginnie Mae servicing UPB in the fourth quarter of 2014 and we intend to explore the sale of other delinquent servicing portfolios during the remainder of 2015.
We will be replacing the UPB sold and the runoff of performing servicing related to the current surge and re-financing activity by retaining high credit quality GSE servicing.
This may include bulk and mini bulk purchases of performing high credit quality GSE loan portfolios.
We expect these actions will accelerate the reduction of delinquent servicing UPB and related expenses as well as allow us to invest our cash in income producing assets.
Now please turn to slide 9 with interest rates lower in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 total application volume for the first quarter of 2015 was up 46% over the prior year outpacing the comparable period performance for the total industry as reported by the MBA.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume was up 10% versus the first quarter of last year also comparing favorably to the first quarter results for the overall industry as reported by the MBA.
We are adding resources to accommodate the surge in originations volume.
And as a result we are likely to see an increase in the direct variable and indirect operating costs in our mortgage production segment through the third quarter of 2015 to address increases in loan origination volume.
Consistent with GSE and MBA projections of industry origination volumes we expect refinancing related application volume to decline and a transition to primarily a home purchase driven mortgage market by the end of the second quarter.
We will utilize the resources added to support the surge in refinancing volume earlier this year to support the seasonal home purchase market origination volume surge that occurred in the spring and fall.
Now please turn to slide 10.
The pace of regulatory change continues and we are focusing on the implementation of the TILA RESPA integrated disclosure regulations to provide consumers with more meaningful information to make more informed home financing decisions.
We are investing over $10 million to modify our IT systems and business processes and we expect to be fully operational and compliant on the August 1 effective date.
Managing in a complex constantly changing regulatory environment has become a critical element of our business.
Our operating activities are subject to numerous examinations throughout the year.
We are directly regulated and or examined by HUD FHFA CFPB and other regulatory members of the FFIC as well as the banking and financial services departments of all 50 states.
The client's we serve engage in regular examinations of our operations and as part of the banking regulators oversight of their member institutions our client s regulators examine us largely in the same way that they would examine our regulated clients.
The purpose of these examinations is to ensure PHH operates in compliance with all applicable regulatory client and investor requirements.
And PHH does not present an unwanted risk to consumers or its clients businesses or investors of mortgage backed securities.
In the first quarter alone we responded to nearly 1 000 information requests from our clients their regulators and our regulators.
We believe this level of activity is the new normal state.
Consistent with our focus on operational excellence we have made significant investments in our compliance and risk management infrastructure over the last several years to address and stay abreast of the evolving regulatory and investor environment.
We have implemented a three line of defense risk and compliance over oversight and control model.
The finance compliance and risk management committee of the PHH board regularly evaluates management's risks and compliance performance.
We maintain a staff of over 250 people in risk and compliance management business testing remediation exam management changed control process improvement and consumer advocacy to fulfill our risk management and compliance responsibilities.
We execute over 8 500 unique compliance and quality control test scripts on an annual basis.
And we are continuously modifying processes and systems to support changing regulations.
We believe our investment in this infrastructure is critically important element of our business.
And we believe compliance competency will evolve to be a competitive advantage in the years to come.
However this investment has added significant cost to our business.
And as a result scale is critical to absorb the ongoing costs of maintaining a compliant business platform.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Rob.
Thanks Glen our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the first quarter of 2015 we reported net income attributable to PHH Corporation of $21 million or $0.40 per basic share.
This compares to a net loss from continuing operations of $32 million or $0.62 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $65 million as compared to negative $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Core loss after-tax and core loss per share in the first quarter which exclude the net MSR mark and the results of discontinued operations were $20 million and $0.38 per basic share respectively this compares to a core loss after-tax of $24 million and a core loss per basic share of $0.47 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The sequential quarter improvement in our results are reflective of higher production related earnings due to a decline in mortgage rates which led to increased origination activity and wider total loan margins.
Included in notable items this quarter was a $65 million net market related fair value adjustment to our MSR $8 million in cost related to fleet separation and $9 million in cost related to re-engineering and growth initiatives.
Through the first quarter of 2015 we have incurred a total of $25 million in charges and investments related to our growth and re-engineering activities.
Now moving to slide 13 in the first quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $19 million compared to a $26 million segment loss in the fourth quarter applications were up 39% and interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 33% based on the drop in mortgage rates during the quarter.
While closing volumes were flat versus prior quarter we would expect higher closing volumes in the second quarter based on the surge in application activity in the first quarter.
Total loan margins widened 24 basis points to 315 basis points.
During the month of April margins have trended slightly lower in the 290 basis to 300 basis point range.
Fee-based closings as a portion of total closings equaled 67% in the first quarter down some 68% in the fourth quarter as new PLS contract pricing is implemented we expect to see the effect materialize in higher loan origination fees in the production segment.
Now please turn to slide 14 our mortgage servicing segment recorded a profit of $57 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to a segment loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 these results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains a positive $65 million in the first quarter and negative $12 million in the previous quarter the $65 million and favorable market related adjustments was comprised of $53 million in hedge gains which can be attributed to a 26 basis point decline in the 10-year swap rate and $12 million in market related fair value adjustments to our MSR.
The $12 million in adjustments were driven by a drop in mortgage rates offset by changes we made to our prepayment model.
Primary mortgage rates fell 12 basis points resulting in a $34 million negative market related fair value adjustment.
Changes to our prepayment model resulted in a $46 million positive MSR adjustment.
We believe the model is now better aligned to our historically absorbed prepayment speeds which have been running slower than model projections and other market data.
On a core basis first quarter 2015 mortgage servicing core loss pre-tax was $8 million compared to $1 million core loss pre-tax in the fourth quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter decline was due to $6 million in higher rep and warrant related provisions.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $224 billion in UPB at the end of the first quarter 2015 was down $3 billion from last quarter primarily due to the settlement of the high delinquency Ginnie Mae portfolio sale.
Total portfolio delinquency now stands at 3.21% down from 4.14% last quarter primarily due to the Ginnie Mae portfolio sale.
At the end of the first quarter we valued our MSR at 91 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $986 million representing a 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayments speeds in the first quarter were 12% as compared to 11% in the fourth quarter.
During the first quarter we completed $13 million in MSR sales as compared to $25 million in the fourth quarter.
The results of our re-engineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the first quarter we realized $11 million or $44 million on an annualized basis of re-engineering benefits after adjusting for volume differences.
This represents approximately 20% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our re-engineering actions.
The primary drivers include $8 million in productivity related benefits $2 million in lower addressable expenses after adjusting for notable items and investments and $1 million in revenue benefits related to PLS contract re-pricing.
Now moving to slide 16 with regard to liquidity we closed the first quarter with approximately $1.2 billion in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities comparable to the end of the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we intend to utilize excess cash for our open market repurchase program and growth and re-engineering initiatives.
In addition we intend to utilize up to $280 million for the tender of our 2017 convertible notes assuming a 100% tender participation rate.
Actual cash utilization will depend on the final participation rate.
Now please turn to slide 17.
We completed our ASR program during the first quarter resulting in the retirement of an additional 1.574 million shares.
In total we retired 8.537 million shares at an average price of 23.43.
Our book value per basic share at the end of the first quarter was $31.64 based on $49.6 million basic shares outstanding.
The sequential quarter improvement from $30.21 at the end of the fourth quarter was primarily driven by GAAP earnings in the quarter and the completion of our ASR program.
And now I'll now turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
We are executing on our re-engineering and growth plans working diligently with our private label clients to conclude our discussions as soon as possible.
And expanding business opportunities within our production and servicing segments to diversify our earnings streams and enhance profitability.
Provided that market in straight conditions materialize as expected and the continued successful execution of our re-engineering actions we anticipate reporting positive core earnings for the second half of 2015 excluding one-time items.
I'm pleased with our progress to-date.
But we have more work to do.
Achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at our targeted return levels will require the continued successful execution of both our reengineering and growth actions.
We are confident that the investments in our business will continue to payoff and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in our mortgage production and servicing businesses.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH's board of directors and my colleagues at PHH for the continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Jennifer? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes hey thank you very much.
Hey Glen on writing up the MSR I mean a lot of guys really took some big hits on the MSRs this quarter and I think clear including myself was expecting you guys to take a hit but you rode it up what drove that because it really looks like when you just mentioned your CPR rates went from only 11% to 12% and I think most people CPR rates are in the mid-teens to high-teens it would make a little bit of sense but what drove the write up was it the auditors or was it just re-examining the model and you were too conservative? Yeah as a matter of fact Paul I am going to let Rob our CFO to handle that question.
Yes.
Hey Paul we’ve been monitoring our actual prepayments fees which you’ve quoted there relative to model and well we don't make adjustments just based on one or two months trend.
We have been following the speeds and over the last 12 months actual speeds have been running about 80% of model.
And so we did decide this month to make some adjustments to the prepayment model that we use and that largely offset what would have been a $36 million decline in the MSR due to the 12 basis points decline in primary wealth mortgage rates.
And then I mean can you add any color why do you think that your CPR rates are running below market? Below market well I do believe that a lot of the nature of the origination channel and I think both our real estate and our private label channels tend to generate speeds that are slower than maybe somebody who might have for instance more broker to correspondent volume in their mix.
Okay.
And then one last follow-up question in the you mentioned Glen that if the tender I guess it's on the tender for your convert if it was converted 100% if the tender was excess of 100% you would be below your liquidity or your leverage goals would you go out and issue debt to get back up to where you want to be? You well we would be below our targeted unsecured debt levels.
Paul I think right now we would be comfortable with where we are and we’re not at this time this stage of the game considering going out and racing new debt.
Okay.
Hey thanks a lot Glen thanks a lot guys.
You are welcome.
We will go next to Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning guys I just wanted to touch on the growth in re-engineering initiatives a little bit.
I understand your comments on the retail sales offices and some of the slower trajectory given the rate and competitive environment.
Can you maybe just speak a little bit to expectations as you build out a more math-affluent type model in the private label side? And how quickly something like that could ramp up and imagine a lot of it is tied to the contracting negotiations and then secondly in the regional bank channel.
Cheryl that is correct.
So it is first and foremost tied to completion of the contract renegotiation efforts.
As we've said previously and I think as it remains the case the mortgage program for wealth management clients is a very important product for them both of the customer retention tool and as an earnings driver as well.
So our clients with us do share the – desire to want to continue to grow and expand the program.
Again we are focused as well on developing more streamlined private label and or outsourcing programs and we are continuing to take those to market.
We are encouraged by the pipeline of potential new clients that's been developed.
And Cheryl I go back to just our overall expectations on the growth initiatives we will be making investments over the course of the next 18 months to 24 months so I expect it would take 18 months to 24 months for the growth objectives to materialize.
Okay and then just on the re-engineering side and some of the timing on the expense initiatives obviously given sort of where you are benefiting from some refis still today as well.
How easy or difficult is it to sort of flip the switch if we were to move into higher rate environment and refis slowed dramatically? Cheryl that is the managing capacity is just part of what we have to do in our business subject to contractual commitments that we may have with our private label clients on staffing levels and or case loads.
We would look to respond as quickly as possible to changes in volume if we expect those volume changes to be permanent.
As I mentioned on the call I do think when I look at the environment for the balance of this year has the refinancing – surge in refinancing activity declines if the MBA and GSE forecasts are correct.
It would be concurrent with the surge in application activity to expect to see with the home purchase market.
So you probably would be able to ride the capacity through to the third quarter or so.
And then we would have to evaluate our client's projections for volumes from that point forward to determine what the appropriate adjustments are and our operational capacity.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
We'll go next to Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Yes good morning everyone and congratulations on tremendous amount of progress.
The idiot's guide to repurchasing converts maybe you can help me out here.
You are carrying the convert at 219 million.
you've got $that $26 million discount and you obviously would have to pay some sort of premium in there to the par value of the bonds to bring them in can you walk through the accounting and the impact on book value for me.
And let me know are there tax consequences as well.
Henry I'm going to let Rob our CFO answer that.
Rob? Yeah Henry thanks for the question.
A long story short is that we will need to recognize the difference between the current carrying value and the market value of the liability that will come through as a loss to book value call it around $25 million to $30 million.
A portion of that could be tax deductible the portion that is related to the debt instrument but we have not made any final determinations on that.
But I do know the whole amount the $25 million to $30 million loss will not be tax adjustable but a piece will.
And then we will obviously issues shares for the premium and that will increase book value but we'll have a corresponding reversal as it's kind of treated as reacquiring our equity.
So book value will go net net.
Book value should go down by some portion of the $25 million to $30 million and obviously share count will go up and book value per share will obviously go down.
So the plan is to tender for the bonds that pay off the premium with stock.
That is correct.
And then your board has an authorization in place of $250 million.
Could you – well let's not call it immediately but immediately the next day whatever repurchase the equivalent amount of share is issued.
And Henry as I think as I said on the call our intent is to as soon as legally permitted to engage in the open market share repurchase plan and to – our intent is to try to complete it by March 31 2016 as originally planned.
And you guys have always been the ultimate in belt and suspenders and generally if you when you put something in writing it's almost that it's completely done.
What are the mechanisms of getting this tender done.
How do you know how confident you can be or cannot be? Have you had dialog with bond holders et cetera? So Henry we yeah obviously it is subject to acceptance by the bondholders the bondholders do have the right to either surrender or not-surrender.
We believe we’ve had the appropriate level of guidance and input from financial advisors and an understanding of what is going on in the marketplace.
And based on all those facts as well as the fact that the premium has declined and the other financial reasons we talked about we think now is the appropriate time for us to tender for the instrument.
Great well thank you very much.
Thank you.
We will go next to Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Good morning thanks for taking my call.
On the Fleet expenses just want to clarify is that incorporate and kind of what's the run rate going forward and when will those related expenses the others are at stop being recognized? I'm going to ask Rob to handle that.
Yes.
Chris they do roll up under that other parent segment.
And the transition services agreement runs as it currently stands runs through June 30 but there is a 90-day option that element has to extend the IT services for another 90 days which would take it to September 30.
So the way to think about it is those expenses really sort of built-up a lot of the work was done in the first quarter.
They should begin to trail down and then ultimately extinguish somewhere between June 30 and September 30.
Okay thank you.
For the fee benefit from the PLS and renegotiations will we see the full impact in the second quarter for the 50% that have signed the renegotiated contracts? Yes we will.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then I just wanted to clarify on the actual expenses that we're taking in the quarterly restructuring charges did those occur in the corporate overhead portion of mortgage production? Rob do you want to address that.
You’re talking about the reengineering? Exactly the charges taken not the saves.
Some of those charges are located in the parent and other segment yes.
Could you give us like a breakdown that I'm just trying to look at kind of – it was a pretty significant increase in corporate allocation add mortgage production I was just wondering if that was charge related or if there is something else going on? Yes Chris I think we can yes provide that detail after this call.
Okay.
So we can give you the picture on which segment each one of those charges was reported in.
All right perfect.
And then just on the growth side just give us some color of what your loan officer targeting strategy is for the retail expansion I know you said it was going slower I'm just – where are you looking to hire the loan officers out of just based on those sort of considerations.
Yes generally Chris I would say that we're looking at certainly we're leveraging our relationship with realtors in those geographies where we're participating to understand who are the better performing loan officers and or loan officer teams in a given geographic region.
We're then targeting based on market recommendations who we believe the highest performing loan officers are in those regions.
It’s being that we are in a refinancing wave – loan officer behavior is typically such that if they've got a refinancing pipeline that's fairly large.
They're not going to want to move until that pipeline clears.
That makes sense and do you find your compensation for those loan officers is similar to market practices? Yeah we do benchmark to market.
Chris so we're comfortable that the compensation plan we’ve put in place is competitive.
We also believe that some of the operational improvements that we’ve made on the retail origination side like the express path process is a good selling tool for us especially as we transition towards the purchase market environment.
And I assume – if I was a loan officer having a direct channel until we already – exclusive on franchises would be a selling – point to me.
So I would think that would probably help us well.
And it does help the selling process for sure.
All right.
That's all my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Bose George with KBW.
Yes good morning.
When you talk about being breakeven and you note that it's provided that the market in interest rate conditions materialize as expected can you just elaborate on what kind of underlying sort of assumptions on the market you are thinking about? Yeah Bose it's basically the MBA/GSE industry forecast so at a very high level refinancing volume continues through but starts to tail off in the second quarter we transitioned to primarily a home purchase driven market in the third and fourth quarters.
Okay great.
And then in terms of the number you guys have for foreclosure and reposition expenses that line item.
As we go forward do you think there could be a meaningful decline there over time? Bose that's one of those things that I talked about it in my overview of some of the strategies for our servicing business.
We are looking to actively change portfolio composition by selling high delinquency asset servicing assets in our own servicing book.
And replacing them with high credit quality performing GSE servicing our goal is to drive those expenses lower by changing portfolio composition.
Okay but is it – it's still probably too early to tell like what a normalized number there could be? I think that's fair.
Okay and then just one last one once the reengineering growth initiatives are over and the tender buyback are done is there still going to be any excess cash at that point? Or is that largely going to be utilized by all those? You know we don't typically disclose a multiyear cash forecast.
Well I can say that our strategic planning process and our liquidity forecasting process does go out multiple years and execution of our re-engineering contract renegotiation and growth initiatives are not – or will not be impacted by the tender for the convert and we do believe the company would have adequate liquidity to tender for the convert and execute all of its initiatives.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to Glen Messina for any additional or closing remarks.
Jenifer thank you very much.
And thank you to all of our shareholders for attending the call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
This concludes the PHH Corporation first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 9398060.
It will be archived until May 22 2015.
You may now disconnect.