Please standby we're about to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will be in a listen-only mode during the remarks by PHH management.
At the conclusion of the company's remarks we will begin the question-and-answer session at which I will give you instructions on entering the queue to ask your questions.
Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using the conference ID 6527323 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until August 21 2015.
This access information is also described in the company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of today's session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications who'll proceed with the introduction.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide 2 of our second quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the investor section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the investor section of our website where you may request a fax or mail copy by calling our investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pre-tax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Dico good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I'll briefly discuss our financial results for the second quarter.
Then my remarks will focus primarily on our re-engineering actions our growth initiatives some thoughts on the regulatory environment and our capital structure actions then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Now please turn to slide four.
In the second quarter we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $66 million.
Our results included $86 million in pre-tax charges relating to one-time and notable items and net cost associated with the sale and separation of the fleet business.
We completed the tender for our 2017 convertible notes.
We've made meaningful progress in executing our re-engineering plan.
We have substantially completed the renegotiations of our private label contracts and we have executed 70% of the actions necessary to realize our expenses reduction targets.
We realized our $104 million of annualized operating benefits from our re-engineering actions in the second quarter and we're on track to deliver up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits by the end of 2016.
Production segment profit was $3 million in the second quarter of 2015 which improved $30 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Production segment profit included notable item charges of $13 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $3 million in the second quarter of 2014.
The improved profitability was driven by improved margins higher volume and increased fees on fee-based closings.
We've opened 12 offices in the leading home purchase markets.
Recruiting a slower than we expected and we've added approximately half of the amount of the retail loan officers we targeted at this time.
As a result we're behind our expectations for organic growth and our real estate channel.
Servicing segment core loss was $66 million in the second quarter of 2015 a decrease of $68 million in core earnings in the second quarter of 2014.
Servicing core earnings included notable item charges of $36 million in the second quarter of 2015.
The decline in core earnings was driven by increased core MSR amortization expense and increased delinquent servicing and foreclosure cost.
We increased our legal reserve by $34 million in the second quarter.
Since our last update we've had significant developments relating to our legacy regulatory matters with the CFPB MMC and New York DFS.
The increased loss in our servicing segment combined with slower than expected organic growth could put more pressure on the second half of 2015 results that we anticipated.
Provided market and straight conditions materialize as expected and the successful execution of our strategic initiatives we expect core earnings before one-time items to improve from the current levels and approach breakeven for the second half of the year.
On the same basis we expect to return to profitability in 2016.
Looking forward achieving meaningful and sustained profitability at or targeted return levels will require completion of our re-engineering actions realization of our growth initiatives repositioning our servicing portfolio and disciplined execution of our compliance service management strategies.
Now please turn to slide five.
We've made meaningful progress on our re-engineering initiatives and are on track to deliver up to approximately $225 million in annualized operating benefits from these initiatives.
We're revising the one-time spend associated with our re-engineering actions to $175 million down from $200 million.
Now please turn to slide six.
We've made substantial progress in our private label contract renegotiations.
We are increasing the expected annualized benefit to at least $75 million from up to $50 million.
The increase versus our expectations is to accommodate client specific requests related to staffing levels and the operational customization.
In the second quarter we realized $8 million or 43% of our expected annualized operating benefits.
We have previously signed revised contracts with clients representing 50% of our 2014 PLS closing volumes and have achieved our business and economic objectives with respect to these clients.
During the second we have substantially completed negotiations with the majority of the clients representing the remaining 50% of our annualized 2014 total PLS closing volume.
Absent any unforeseen circumstances we expect to execute revised agreements with clients representing 47% of our annualized 2014 closing volume in the third quarter and expect the benefits of these revised agreements to be realized in the fourth quarter.
One private label client representing 3% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume has indicated their intention to re-insource their mortgage fulfillment operations.
We thank our clients for working with us to achieve our mutual objectives.
We are committed to fulfill our obligations and commitments under our revised agreements.
Now please turn to slide seven.
We are revising the expected annualized operating benefits related to our expense reduction actions to up to $150 million down from up to $175 million due to reduced operations productivity targets to meet our staffing and operational customization commitments for our clients.
In the second quarter we realized approximately $18 million or 48% of our targeted annualized operating benefits.
As the end of the July we have completed at least 70% of the actions necessary to deliver on our expense reduction target.
As a reminder there can be a delay between the completion of it action and its related cost savings.
Our expected facility's consolidation plans have also been extended as a result of the surge in refinancing activity.
We expect these actions will be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
The timeline for IT investments will also be longer than anticipated due to our near-term focus and prioritization on trade compliance and IT related investments to accommodate client's technology related request.
The operating expense portion may be larger than expected and the capital expense portion may be less than expected.
Now please turn to slide 8 we intent to invest at least 150 million for selective growth opportunities over the balance of 2015 and 2016.
We believe these opportunities could generate up to a $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
We have a multi faceted growth strategy leveraging both organic and in-organic growth initiatives.
Our goal is to diversify our earning streams and enhance profitability by leveraging our existing infrastructure to improve operating efficiency.
As we have previously discussed we need to achieve $80 billion in annual originations volume and over $300 billion in servicing UPB to deliver sustained profitability and our targeted return levels.
Our retail home purchase mortgage application volume growth of 3% in the second quarter lagged the 14% reported by the MBA for the overall industry for two reasons.
First as part of our re-engineering efforts we consolidated and reduced the number of regional origination and processing centers in real estate.
This includes being more selective and withdrawing from relationships that did not meet our profitability objectives.
As a result of these actions we have reduced our related relationships by 43% turned over nearly 25% of our retail loan officers and reduced our retail loan officers staffing in legacy locations by nearly 15%.
Back then we're not placing the same emphasis on FHA and VA loan originations as other industry participants.
Our total closing volume of FHA and VA insured loans grew 18% in the second quarter of 2015 over the same period last year as compared to 77% to the overall industry as reported by insight mortgage finance.
Our pipeline to POS opportunities continues to build and we're excited about the prospects and potential.
As a result of the increasingly complex regulatory environment the client qualification processes intent and the decision-making processes protracted.
These continued to be long cycle opportunities.
We are in the process of staffing 12 new officers in the leading home purchase markets and it has taken us longer than anticipated to recruit high performing retail loan officers who share our values.
The surge in refinancing activity leading into the purchase season and our lack of an established consumer facing brand has slowed our recruiting activity.
We've added approximately half the number of retail loan officers we expected at this time.
As a result we are behind our expectations for organic volume growth in real estate.
In our mortgage servicing segment we remain focused on improving profitability and scale through growth in both home servicing and sub servicing.
We continue to see a shift in our portfolio compensation from home servicing to sub servicing which was up $18 billion in the second quarter of 2015 from the same period last year.
Year-to-date we have added $5.3 billion in subservicing EPB from sources other than our own origination channels.
Core earnings in servicing has been adversely impacted by a 20% increase in core MSR amortization expense in the first half of 2015 versus the same period last year despite a 16% reduction in owned servicing UPB.
Additionally delinquent servicing and foreclosure related costs are up 13% in the second quarter of 2015 over the same period last year despite a 25% reduction in delinquent loan UPB in our own servicing portfolio.
We need to rebalance the servicing portfolio and intend on taking action to sell on profitable and our highly delinquent legacy servicing and purchase high credit quality GSE servicing.
As a result of our slower than expected organic growth it places a greater emphasis in the near term on inorganic growth in order for us to attain the scale necessary to achieve our targeted profitability.
Over the past several quarters we have been engaged with our advisers to evaluate and screen potential opportunities.
Now that we have substantially completed our POS contract renegotiations we intend to intensify our efforts on this imitative.
We will be disciplined in our approach and focused on those opportunities that allow us to leverage our existing support infrastructure have a good cultural fit and achieve our cost of capital.
Now please turn to slide nine.
There are four items I want to update you on related to our regulatory matters.
First at the end of the second quarter the CFPB ordered PHH to pay $109 million and other relief in connection with legacy activities of our former Atrium Reinsurance subsidiary.
We have appealed to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit.
Just a few days ago our motion to stay enforcement of the order pending appeal was granted and we'll not be required to place the $109 million into escrow.
While there can be no assurances as to the final outcome we continue to believe our appeal will be successful.
We have not included any amount and reasonably possible losses for this matter.
Second regarding the MMC examination in late July we received a settlement proposal that would require PHHs to pay a substantial amount in restitution and penalties and agree to certain servicing practices and other requirements in connection with resolving the findings associated with their 2011 examination.
Third regarding the New York DFS examination.
In early July the DFS clarified its intense propose of the company enter into a public consent order whereby PHH should be ordered to pay restitution and penalties and maybe substitute to other requirements in connection with the settlement of the New York findings from the 2011 MMC and other legacy examinations.
At this time we did not have clarity around the amounts or specifics of the DFS expected demand.
Fourth with regard to the HUD subpoenas based on the current status of the investigations discussions with individuals familiar with industry settlements in this area and other available information we believe we have a clear picture of the aggressive positions being taken by the government in these cases regarding the definition of loan origination defects and other FHA compliance issues.
While to-date we have not been approached by the government with any demands or claims in connection with this matter.
Several large mortgage originators that participate in FHA learning programs have been subject to similar investigations which have resulted in settlements involving a payment of substantial damages.
The range of losses vary significantly for each originator as there were different facts and circumstances underlying each investigation.
We cannot estimate an amount of probable loss a range of reasonably possible loss or the maximum amount of possible losses in connection with the New York DFS and FHA matters.
Finally in recent weeks some mortgage lenders have indicated their intention withdraw from certain marketing services agreements for MSAs.
PHH has used MSAs and we believe they have been structured in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
However as a result of increasing uncertainty surrounding regulatory oversight of these types of arrangements PHH has been exiting it's MSAs and expects to have withdrawn from substantially all of its MSAs by September 1 2015.
As it relates to our MSA with Realogy franchise orders we're jointly exploring a number of new options to support our relationship with them.
This decision doesn't not impact the joint venture with Realogy which is not an MSA.
From the last 12 months our mortgage production under all active MSAs has been less than 2% of our overall volume.
As we reflect on the many accomplishments over the past year we're ever mindful of the increased regulatory focus in the mortgage industry.
The regulatory environment has undergone massive change the environment is highly punitive and the consequences of once accepted legacy practices are more unpredictable.
We believe compliance excellence will be the foundation of success in the mortgage industry.
Our role as a key service provider to leading financial institutions requires us to take an institutional approach and we appreciate our client's partnership and continuously evolving our practices and platform.
We have made and we'll continue to make substantial investment in our compliance risk management process control quality assurance change management and technology infrastructure.
Now please turn to slide 10.
In the second quarter we completed an exchange for $243 million of principle of our convertible notes due in 2017 which will result in interest expense savings of $32 million annually.
We did not repurchase shares in the second quarter due to restrictions related to the convertible note exchange offer cooling-off period and earnings black out.
As we have just discussed the regulatory environment has undergone radical changes and continues to change.
In light of the uncertainties with our revolving legacy regulatory matters the volatile nature of our regulatory and industry environment and our need to increase scale to meet our return objectives we believe it's prudent to conserve our cash and protect the capital base of the company at this time.
As a result we've delayed the implementation of our intended share repurchases.
We're uncertain as a duration of time we will not be in the market buying back shares the situation is unfolding and we'll provide an update next quarter.
We will continue to evaluate our overall capital structure and liquidity position and remain committed to executing a capital deployment framework to achieve our long-term return objectives.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob to discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Glen our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the second quarter of 2015 we reported net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $62 million or $1.20 per basic share.
This compares to net income from continuing operations of $21 million or $0.40 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were pre-tax market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $20 million as compared to positive $65 million in the first quarter of 2015.
Core loss pre-tax in the second quarter which excludes the net MSR mark and the results of discontinued operations totaled $100 million and included $86 million in pre-tax charges comprised of $34 million additional legal and regulatory reserves $30 million in debt retirement costs $17 million in reengineering and growth related charges and investments and $5 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
The compares to a pre-tax core loss of $36 million last quarter which included $9 million of reengineering and growth related investments and $8 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
For the first six months of 2015 core earnings totaled a pre-tax loss of $136 million including $90 million of notable items and $13 million of fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compared to a pre-tax loss of $85 million for the first six months of 2014 including $9 million of notable items.
Year-over-year we are experiencing measurable improvement in production segment results partially offset by increasing challenges in the servicing segment.
Now moving to slide 13.
In the second quarter mortgage production had a segment profit of $3 million compared to a $19 million segment loss in the first quarter.
Second quarter results for the production segment include $13 million of notable items related to reengineering costs and investments as compared to $6 million in the first quarter.
Closings were up 29% consistent with the strong application volume witnessed in the first quarter.
Applications were down 8% primarily due to a 13% drop in private label volumes real-estate applications were up 9% interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 1%.
Total loan margins narrowed 16 basis points to 299 basis points.
During the month of July margins have trended slightly wider in the 300 basis points to 320 basis point range.
For the first six months of 2015 the production segment loss totaled $16 million as compared to a loss of $87 million for the same period in 2014.
Applications are up 26% closings are up 28% interest rate lock commitments expected to close were up 13% and total loan margins are up 26 basis points to 307 basis points.
In addition to stronger volume and margin related metrics the production segment results benefited from the early stages of our re-engineering efforts.
Now please turn to slide 14.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a loss of $46 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to a segment profit of $57 million in the first quarter of 2015.
These results include market related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of positive $20 million in the second quarter and positive $65 million in the previous quarter.
During the second quarter primary mortgage rates increased 36 basis points leading to a $69 million positive market related fair value adjustment in the MSR partially offset by $49 million in hedge losses.
On a core basis second quarter 2015 mortgage servicing core loss pre-tax was $66 million compared to an $8 million core loss pre-tax in the first quarter.
The majority of the sequential quarter decline was due to $34 million in legal and regulatory reserves $13 million from faster prepayment speeds $6 million in provision for certain non-recoverable fees to foreclosure activities and $4 million in lower servicing income.
For the first six months of 2015 the core servicing loss pre-tax totaled $74 million as compared to our profit of $12 million for the same period in 2014.
This is primarily due to $34 million additional legal and regulatory reserves $21 million of lower servicing income due to an $18 billion decline in capitalized servicing UPB $15 million from faster prepayment speeds and $7 million from higher rep and warrant expense.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $225 billion in UPB at the end of the second quarter of 2015 was up $1 billion from last quarter.
At the end of the second quarter we valued our MSR at 97 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $1.20 billion representing a 3.4 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayment speeds in the second quarter were 15% as compared to 12% in the first quarter.
During the first quarter we completed $12 million in MSR sales as compared to $13 million in the first quarter.
The results of our re-engineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the second quarter we realized $26 million or a $104 million on an annualized basis of re-engineering benefits after adjusting for volume differences between the quarters.
This represents approximately 46% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our re-engineering actions.
The primary drivers include $10 million in re-engineering expense benefits $8 million in re-engineering revenue benefits $2 million in productivity-related sales and $6 million in fleet standard cost savings.
Now moving to slide 16.
With regard to liquidity we closed the second quarter with approximately $880 billion in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities as compared to $1.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
The majority of the change was due to the utilization of $273 million in cash in connection with the exchange offer for our convertible notes.
Key cash requirements at the end of the second quarter totaled $300 million to $400 million.
As a reminder we have year marked at least a $150 million for growth investments and have a $130 million remaining to invest in re-engineering activities.
In addition as Glen mentioned earlier the implementation of our board authorized open market purchase program will be delayed.
Now please turn to slide 17.
Our tangible book value per basic share at the end of the second quarter was $25.03 million based on $59.8 million basic shares outstanding.
We issued a little over 10 million shares in conjunction with the exchange of our convertible notes.
No shares were repurchased during the second quarter.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Before we conclude we'll pause now to take questions.
Danny? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bose George from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
The first question is just on the higher cost in the servicing.
I mean just leaving aside the charges it looks like it's higher.
Just curious what's driving that and if whether the some of the regulatory stuff you noted is tied into that in many way? So Rob do you want to handle that one.
Yeah.
So Boss on the serving segment we did have obviously the legal charges rollup in the segment results.
We also had higher amortization expense this quarter as I mentioned based on the faster prepayments fees on the quarter.
And then we also had $6 million worth of the charges that would have rolled up other expense in the servicing segment related to the – some foreclosure related expenses that are un-reimbursable to the company and that was about $6 million.
The – in terms of the regulatory stuff that you noted is it in terms of all of it kind of – or incremental information that's coming out now is that sort of coincidental or is any sort of relation – reason they're all kind of be happening simultaneously? Bose I believe it is all coincidental a lot of this information it is real-time the facts and circumstances can change at any time.
We're trying to provide the most recent information to the market on what's happening on these matters.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And actually let me just thrown in one more.
You noted you needed $80 billion of volume to sort of get you where you needed to be from earnings et cetera.
Can you just talk about the landscape there for the acquisitions you'd need to do that is it are they anything big or is it going to probably be just having to couple together smaller deals? Bose I believe as I mentioned before we are – we are looking at more sizable platforms.
So we have – do have an interest in getting a strong recognized consumer facing brand.
So we are looking at retail purchase market focus platforms of upscale.
So we don't have to go through onesie-twosie acquisitions to string together a whole bunch of them.
Integration integration is a lot of hard work; you're better off doing it with a couple of medium-to-larger size deals than a whole bunch of smaller ones.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey Glen how are you doing? The buybacks I mean one of the big initiatives and catalysts for you selling the fleet business was one to grow I mean to re-engineer the business to get it more profitable? And secondly to buy back a big portion of your shares.
I know you you put that you had that [ph] JPM ATM deal that that I think is almost complete but why suspend the buyback now like what's driving that? As we've – Paul as we've looked at the current updates look as the regulatory matters have continued to evolve and the increasing uncertainty there as well as our increased dependency on acquisitions to support the growth objectives for the business.
We believe it's prudent to conserve capital at this time until we can have clarity and to the capital requirements for acquisitions as well as the range of reasonably possible losses with some of these regulatory matters that are developing.
Okay.
And then on the – I know some I know some companies have on the FAH products have not I won't say stop filing claims but on questionable claims they've stopped filing claims.
Are you continuing to filing claims on the FHA or have you stopped have you slowed that down because of the possibility of DOJ is coming to knocking your door asking too many tough questions? Paul we've – we continue to service our portfolios consistent with the servicing guides and practices and continue to manage all aspect of our business in accordance with our operating requirements to include the claims filing process.
And then on the hedging loss I mean you guys have not really hedged your portfolio and I've never seen a hedging loss this big before.
Are you trying to hedge your portfolio at this point because I don't remember you guys talking about this in the past and if you did I apologize I missed it to have this big of a hedge on.
And so I'm just – can you add some color around that hedging loss? Sure.
So Rob do you want to address that? Sure.
Yeah Paul.
We actually have had in our practice to hedge our MSR but primarily for low rate scenarios.
So we bought – the hedge book is primarily comprised of swaptions and we've actually seen in the past two quarters a pretty significant increase in the value of those as rates drop.
So this is just rates having backed up 36 basis points – at least mortgage rates having backed up 36 basis points this quarter this is just sort of giving back some of the gains that we had in the past couple of quarters from this option book.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
And following we have Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Could you remind us what your IRR targets I mean just on a high level are for M&amp;A? Yeah.
Chris after the fleet sale and separation we had talked about us striving to achieve a 12% after-tax return on investment.
Okay.
That's what I wanted to check.
And then related to the FHA HUD enquiry.
Can you give us any sense of the years they're looking at or the total volume that you put through that channel during those years? Yeah.
At this point in time Chris there are facts and circumstances surrounding the FHA related subpoena is covered under confidentiality.
We're not at liberty to disclose that.
Okay.
That's all my questions.
Thank you.
Actually one more can you clarify the number.
I think you said the – you had reduced realtor relations by 43% is that over a couple of years? Or is that like in the quarter? That was I would say within the last six months to nine months.
And is that so I would assume that those were very low producing volume because we haven't seen the volume dropout nearly that much.
Yeah.
These were marginal profitability relationships Chris as part of our reengineering efforts yeah obviously if we're going to commit sales processing underwriting closing resources to relationships and maintain an infrastructure.
You got to make money on them right.
So yeah on these – we just didn't we just didn't have the necessary profitability to support the commitment of resources.
That makes sense that clarity really helps.
Thanks so much for taking my call.
You're welcome.
From Compass Point we have Kevin Barker.
Please go ahead sir.
Could you help us understand the difference between the MSAs and your Realogy JV and what makes that different in regards to the RESPA-TILA roles that are being implemented? Sure so MSAs marketing services arrangements are basically a contractual agreement whereby somebody agrees to market your brand and such in accordance with what is required or what is permissible by law.
The Realogy joint venture is in fact a true separate legal entity separately capitalized on 50.1% by PHH and 49.9% by Realogy Corporation it has its own separate advisory board its own people its own licensing it is in fact a separate company a separate entity that has been established in accordance with all required laws and regulations.
It is not an MSA.
Okay.
And then in regards to your agreement with Realogy do you currently send all your title fees or your title work to Realogy's title business right now? Realogy is an industry actually title resource group which is the subsidiary in Realogy that does title.
Is one of our approved title and settlement providers.
Here we have a good relationship with PRG.
They do a great job for us and they continue to process well.
So but ultimately the consumer has the option to select whatever title and or settlement services provider.
So it's not really our call it's the consumer's call.
But Realogy is one of the approved providers that our customers can pick from.
Okay.
And then regarding the regulatory issues that you've discussed earlier I know you can't really discuss like numbers or discuss your negotiations with these examiners.
But could you potentially give us a little bit more detail on what issues there concentrating on is it default servicing is it rent originations and the servicing of those loans.
And just give us a little more details what specifically that you're looking at? Yeah.
The MMC I believe we previously disclosed that the MMC is in fact related to our legacy servicing practices and consistent with I would say the FHA subpoenas are consistent with the other one that have been out throughout the industry.
And what about regarding in the New York DFS? As I mentioned the New York DFS is looking to settle with us separately as it relates to the 2011 MMC examination so again it's servicing related.
Okay.
And then – okay.
And obviously there's a HUD subpoenas that you all previously disclosed? That's correct.
Okay.
And then and in your $80 billion target for originations is there a specific target regarding how much of that would be correspondent retail or wholesale? Yeah we certainly would like to have the majority of it in retail.
Look I think the wholesale segment of the market is a market that has rebounded after the financial crisis with better controls better behaviors.
So it is the segment of the market that we do have an interest in.
I think correspondent lending will always be a mix of our originations but I don't expect it to be in terms of percentages change significantly from where we are today we're just less than 10%.
All right.
Thank you for taking my questions.
And from Sterne Agee CrT we have Henry Coffey.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for taking my questions.
One housekeeping item.
In terms of where you stand with the PLS clients I know you indicated that you're almost complete with everybody.
Is that the way to think about it? Yes sir.
You've got firm contracts or near firm contracts with 48% and then your effectively an agreement would be – with the remaining tax minus that's with the other we call it 47% and then you got 3% that's leaving.
It seemed like a little bit yeah little bit different Henry we have firm contracts with 50% we're substantially compete with 47% and 3% I have decided to in-source.
And more of a big picture item okay in today's world it doesn't seem like you can have anything that looks like a marketing agreement where a large pool of realtors agree to represent your product or you have a person in the office or however you like to see it.
What is the new world's tool for developing a purchase money business I mean that business normally channels through kind of a retailer it normally channels through the realtor? But what's the new world look like how do you get – how do you get access to the individual purchase money business or are you still going to really be dependent on PLS arrangements to get that job done? Henry I look at PLS and the – basically the realtor related businesses are slightly different so I think – look the cornerstone of a good retail platform has always been good strong aggressive retail sales people.
So first and foremost I'd say you got to have a good strong high performing sales force with the right values of course.
I don't look at – we're not doing MSAs I think Prospect are also not doing them Wells Fargo is not them.
I think they go by the way side.
Right.
It's just – it's just not worth of discussion.
And look I think you could always do joint ventures because those are still legally permissible but they have to be structured like real honest-to-goodness through joint ventures with capital at risk.
But nothing – at the end of the day nothing is better than having a good strong retail sales force.
And whether that'd be centralized in the telesales platform of that great brand or whether that'd be good strong people out in a field.
And you're more likely to do the strong people in the field approach what do you – are you thinking of doing the branded campaign around PHH? Our focus right now is strong people in the field.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Thanks for taking my call.
I was wondering if you could give us any type of like sign post or how we should think about what we have to see for the buyback to return back on? Chris I think it's a – it's a couple of things.
If you go back to I think we need to have clarity as to the reasonably possible – range of reasonably possible losses related to our regulatory matters.
And more mileage under our feet as it relates to our acquisition strategy and line of sight into the capital require to achieve the volume targets that we set out there.
And then third I'd add to that to that the capital requirements to reposition the servicing portfolio.
Perfect.
And is there do you have a breakout kind of how much of the delta to get the $80 billion is from acquisition versus organic or is it just kind of however you can get there that's the best use of capital? It really is going to be based on the best use of and deployment of our capital.
Obviously we want to achieve our targeted returns as quickly as we possibly can.
We're going to be disciplined in our approach and looking at our retail acquisitions and our servicing acquisitions.
We're going to look to achieve our targeted rate of return we're going to look for opportunities that can leverage our existing infrastructure that we've invested a lot of money into.
But we recognize the need to achieve our targeted returns in a reasonable timeframe.
Organic growth is longer than inorganic so we are going to intensify our focus on doing inorganic transactions.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
And we have another follow-up question from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Yeah.
Just one of the follow-up regarding the joint venture comments could you if the PHH Realogy JV is a completely separate company from the existing PHH franchise is it possible that that separate joint venture that separate company has MSA agreements with Realogy franchises? No.
There are no MSAs inside the joint venture.
None.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We have another follow-up question from Bose George with KBW.
Hey guys.
Just question on the $34 million reserve is that related to the CFPB or is that for all three is there a way to break that out? As a matter of practice we don't disclose reserves related to specific regulatory matters.
Okay.
Then let me just switch and ask another one.
Just on the delay the RESPA-TILA impact.
Is that -- has impact mainly been delaying some of the restructuring initiatives or has there been incremental cost to that as well? Actually a little bit of both.
So obviously in order to make the changes in our systems and processes we've had to invest in order to get that done.
Last earnings call I had mentioned that we're investing in excess of $10 million to get those changes done.
As a result of the commitment of resources to get that done that did delay some of the technology-driven productivity initiatives because we're focusing our people on getting [ph] threat compliant first and then we can drive productivity afterwards.
Okay thanks.
At this time it appears there are no further questions in our queue.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Glen Messina.
Please go.
Great Danny.
Thank you very much.
Now I'd ask everybody to turn to slide 18 and we'll wrap up.
I believe we've got meaningful progress as compared to the first half of 2014.
Our capital structure actions in the second quarter will result in annualized interest expense reductions of $32 million.
And we have previously repurchased 200 million of PHH stock.
We are substantially complete with our PLS contract renegotiations and we've completed in excess of 70% of the actions required to deliver our expense reduction targets.
In the second quarter we achieved a $104 million of annualized operating benefits as a result of our re-engineering actions.
And we expect to realize up to $225 million in annualized operating benefits and incur a $175 million in one-time cost and reinvestment.
We've made great progress but we have more work to do.
We need to reposition this servicing portfolio to operate a profitable servicing platform.
We need to increase scale meaningfully in both production and servicing to achieve sustained profitability and our targeted return levels a larger portion of which will need to come from inorganic sources.
We are making this a priority we have engaged the necessary resources to support us in this effort.
The current regulatory environment creates uncertainty on top of inherently volatile industry complicating the balance among investment return of capital and contingencies.
We believe the investments in our business will continue to payoff and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in our mortgage production and servicing businesses.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
Thank you.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation for PHH Corporation second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available of later today at the company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID of 6527323.
It will be archived until August 21 2015.
You may now disconnect.