Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is also being webcast and recorded for replay purposes.
The audio replay can be accessed either on the Company website at www.phh.com/invest or by telephone at 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 6947173 beginning shortly after the conclusion of the call.
It will be available until November 20 2015.
This access information is also described in the Company's press release and I will repeat it again at the end of our session.
At this time Dico Akseraylian Senior Vice President of Communications will proceed with the introductions.
Good morning and welcome to PHH Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
There is an investor presentation to accompany this conference call including an appendix of supplemental schedules that is posted in the Investors section of our website at www.phh.com under webcasts and presentations.
Please note that statements made during this conference call include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as further described in slide two of our third quarter 2015 investor presentation.
Such forward-looking statements represent our current beliefs regarding future events and are not guarantees of performance or results.
Actual results performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including but not limited to the factors under the heading Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors in our periodic reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are also available in the Investors section of our website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
The earnings release we issued yesterday also may be accessed from the Investors section of our website or you may request a faxed or mailed copy by calling our Investor hotline.
During this call we may discuss various non-GAAP financial measures including core earnings or loss pretax core earnings or loss after tax core earnings or loss per share adjusted cash flow and tangible book value per share.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying investor presentation for a description of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of such measures to their respective most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Speaking on the call today will be Glen Messina President and Chief Executive Officer and Rob Crowl Chief Financial Officer.
Other members of PHH's senior management team are also with us and will be available to take your questions.
I now will turn the call over to Glen Messina.
Thank you Dico.
Good morning everyone and thank you for your interest in PHH.
This morning I will briefly discuss our financial results for the third quarter.
And my remarks will focus primarily on updates related to regulatory matters our share repurchase program servicing profitability growth initiatives and our expectations for 2016.
Then Rob will discuss our results for the quarter.
Please turn to slide four.
In the third quarter we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $50 million which included $22 million pretax unfavorable net MSR hedge results.
Pretax core loss totaled $68 million and included $61 million in notable items and $1 million in fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compares favorably to a pretax core loss of $92 million in the third quarter of 2014 which included $53 in notable items and $2 million related to fleet separation costs.
Our results for the quarter are consistent with prior guidance of core earnings excluding notable items approaching break-even in the second half of 2015.
We continue to make measurable progress executing our reengineering plan during the third quarter.
We have completed negotiations and executed revised agreements with private label clients representing approximately 72% of our 2014 total PLS closing volumes.
We believe negotiations are substantially complete with one client representing approximately 25% of our 2014 total PLS closing volumes.
We are both taking the necessary time to make sure our mutual needs and objectives are addressed.
Absent any unforeseen circumstances we expect to conclude this process by year-end.
As we discussed last quarter one client representing 3% of our 2014 total PLS closing volume has intended to in-sourced their mortgage fulfillment operations.
We expect the benefits of all our revised agreements to be fully realized in the first quarter of 2016.
We have completed exiting our MSAs within the expected time frame and we successfully implemented the TILA-RESPA integrated disclosure or TRID changes.
Now please turn to slide four.
If you recall in June and July a number of significant developments occurred relating to our legacy regulatory matters.
We lacked sufficient information and clarity prior to our second quarter earnings call to estimate an amount of probable loss any range of reasonably possible losses with respect to certain of these matters.
As a result of these uncertainties in addition to the volatile nature of our regulatory and industry environment and our need to increase scale and evaluate the capital required to rebalance the servicing portfolio we postponed the open market share repurchase program to conserve our cash and protect the liquidity base of the Company.
During the third quarter we continued to carefully monitor and evaluate the matters that necessitated the delay in our open market share repurchase program.
Regarding legacy regulatory matters we have had continuing dialogue with the MMC and the NY DFS and we received an update from the FHA on the status of their investigations.
As a result of these discussions we have updated our loss estimates and contingent liquidity needs for all of these matters.
We believe the actions related to rebalancing our servicing portfolio will be limited in scope and therefore are likely to require a limited commitment of capital.
We will discuss the details of these actions later.
Regarding our growth objectives the investment levels communicated on our second quarter earnings call remain unchanged at this time and we continue to expect a greater emphasis on inorganic growth.
In light of the foregoing we intend to commence open market share repurchases of up to $100 million effective upon the next available securities purchase window.
The execution of share repurchases is subject to market and business conditions and the trading price of our common stock.
In addition our board has extended its prior authorization for up to $250 million in open market share repurchases from March 31 to December 31 2016.
In considering the implementation of open market share repurchases in excess of $100 million we will closely monitor regulatory development and evaluate our overall capital structure liquidity position and the nature of other potential uses of cash including investments and growth.
Now please turn to slide six.
As I mentioned earlier we have had continuing activity related to our legacy regulatory matters.
First with regards to the CFPB our case has garnered broad support from industry trade associations and other interested parties who have filed amicus briefs.
We have filed our opening brief with the DC court of appeals and expect the briefing schedule to be completed by the end of 2015.
We anticipate oral arguments in the spring and court decision likely by the fall of 2016.
While there can be no assurances as to the final outcome we continue to believe our appeal will be successful.
We have had continuing dialogue with the MMC and the NY DFS and have received an update from the FHA and the status of their investigation.
Considering these updates during the quarter we increased our legal reserves $44 million to a total of $106 million.
We believe that some or all of these matters will likely carry into 2016 and we cannot estimate a final resolution date.
Due to the inherent uncertainties surrounding these matters as of the end of the third quarter we estimate that our reasonably possible losses in excess of reserves are $150 million.
Legal reserves in reasonably possible loss amounts have been included in our key cash requirements and we will continue to assess our loss estimates as our discussions progress.
We continue to believe our joint venture with Realogy is fully compliant with Section 8-C4 of RESPA which provides an explicit exception for properly structured and managed joint ventures.
The JV is fully licensed as a mortgage lender in all states where it does business and staffed with its own employees providing loan origination services in locations throughout the country.
The JV carries its own established warehouse lines of credit and sells production to PHH Mortgage and numerous other third parties in arm's length transactions.
Returns to JV partners are based solely on ownership interests.
With regards to the arrangement with Title Resource Group they are a provider of title and closing services to the JV and PHH Mortgage.
We recently amended our agreement with Realogy and while we continue to value TRG as a quality service provider in no event is PHH mortgage required to recommend TRG or their affiliates to borrowers.
Further there has never been compensation of any kind provided to PHH or the JV in connection with the relationship with TRG or received disclosures as applicable and always can elect to use the closing and title services vendor of their choice.
Finally the FHA released guidance with regards to underwriting practices which have been widely viewed as insufficient by the industry.
We are considering our options with regards to continuing participation in the FHA program.
3% of our volume over the past 12 months has been FHA lending.
We will continue to proceed cautiously as we evaluate the risk adjusted return of these products and programs.
We expect the regulatory environment will continue to be challenging in 2016 and regulatory related costs will continue to rise as standards are migrating to near zero defect levels.
We are building a bank-like compliance process management and technology infrastructure.
We expect this infrastructure will cost us approximately $175 million in 2016 roughly twice what we spent in 2011 and $25 million more than 2015.
We are committed to maintaining a safe sound and compliant business for the benefit of our shareholders customers and our employees and we further believe that compliance excellence will be a competitive differentiator.
Now please turn to slide seven.
Last quarter we discussed some of the challenges in our servicing segment including scale increases in core amortization expense and delinquent servicing costs.
We have evaluated our delinquent servicing costs by investor and determined that a significant portion of our costs are related to Ginnie Mae servicing.
Ginnie Mae loans cannot be sold individually they can only be sold at the pool level.
We have identified potential pools for sale but in light of the dispersion of the delinquencies across Ginnie Mae pools it would be dilutive to servicing profitability to sell the identified pools.
As a result we do not intend to pursue further Ginnie Mae sales at this time.
Instead we intend to execute a series of operational improvements related to late stage delinquency performance loss mitigation and foreclosure to improve our delinquent servicing results.
Performing servicing costs across the industry as reported by the NBA have nearly tripled in the last five years.
Delinquent servicing costs have increased even more.
There has been no commensurate change in service or compensation.
Absent meaningful and realistic compensation reform we will need scale to meet these cost challenges.
We plan to hold more originated MSR and acquire additional MSR either through bulk flow or as part of our inorganic growth strategy while continuing to build our subservicing business.
I would like to remind everyone that MSRs are valued in the market using the forward curve as an input.
As such a portion of our MSR value is ascribed to higher escrow earnings and slower prepayments driven by the expectation of higher rates.
If interest rates do not follow the forward path then certain cash flow assumptions will not materialize which would negatively impact our mortgage servicing results.
Absent changes and other factors this will result in higher core amortization and not realizing assumed escrow income potentially without an offsetting increase in production earnings.
Effectively hedging the value the change in value with MSRs with derivative financial instrument is constrained by cash collateral requirements so we believe that this risk is inherent going forward.
Now please turn to slide eight.
In light of the substantial increasing costs to run a compliant mortgage business we need to achieve approximately $80 billion in annual originations volume and at least $300 billion in servicing UPB to deliver sustained profitability and achieve low double-digit ROE levels through the cycle.
In servicing we continue to build a pipeline of subservicing opportunities.
Through the third quarter we have added $8.4 billion in subservicing volume.
We have a committed backlog of $8.5 billion in bulk subservicing addition and have executed agreements that provide for approximately $1 billion in subservicing additions per month.
Our pipeline and PLS opportunities with existing and potential new clients continue to build.
While there could be no assurances that these opportunities will result in signed agreements we are excited about the prospects and potential.
Sales cycle times for potential new clients have extended from previous experiences largely due to more intense due diligence processes.
In real estate we consolidate and reduce the number of regional origination and processing centers exited relationships that did not meet our profitability objective and exited 100% of our MSA agreements.
As a result of these actions we have turned over approximately 40% of our retail loan officers and reduced our field retail loan officer staffing in legacy locations by approximately 20%.
We are in the process of staffing 12 new offices in the leading home purchase markets.
It has taken us longer than anticipated to recruit qualified loan officers.
To address this we are committing to invest approximately $11 million over the next 12 months to intensify our loan officer recruiting efforts.
Overall we are not placing the same emphasis on FHA/VA loan originations as other industry participants.
Our total closing volume of FHA/VA insured loans grew 10% in the third quarter of 2015 over the same period last year as compared to 58% for the overall industry as reported by Inside Mortgage Finance.
Our retail home mortgage purchase application volume in the third quarter was down 21% versus the second quarter and down 1% versus the same quarter last year.
This compares unfavorably to the industry metrics of down 8.5% as compared to the second quarter and up 23% as compared to the third quarter of 2014 as reported by the NBA index.
This was largely due to the restructuring actions taken in real estate and our more cautious approach to FHA lending at the time.
We intend to invest at least $150 million for selective growth opportunities through 2017 and believe these opportunities could generate up to $175 million in annualized operating benefits.
The expected investment and returns include both organic and inorganic growth and activities.
As a result of the expected slower pace for organic growth in near term we are placing greater emphasis on inorganic growth.
We believe that if we are able to consummate the right acquisition it could provide the necessary scale and synergy benefits needed to exceed our cost of capital.
We expect to accelerate our pace of growth investments in 2016 and 2017 the payback of which will occur in 2017 and beyond.
Over the past several quarters we have been engaged with our advisors to evaluate and screen potential inorganic growth opportunities.
We will be disciplined in our approach and focus on those opportunities that allow us to leverage our existing support infrastructure and have a good cultural fit and achieve our cost of capital.
Now please turn to slide nine.
We anticipate the full impact of the PLS contract renegotiations will be evident by the first quarter of 2016.
Further we expect to complete all of our nontechnology-related cost initiatives by the end of the second quarter of 2016.
We expect our technology-related initiatives to continue into 2017.
In 2016 we expect the industry will return to a home purchase-driven market.
Industry projections at the May 2016 industry origination volumes will be $1.38 billion down 12% from 2015 levels based on an average of Fannie Mae Freddie Mac and MBA October housing forecast data.
We expect that industry origination margins will also decline from 2015 levels.
Looking forward to 2016 based on our expectation for slow organic growth the seasonal patterns of the home purchase market the high fixed costs to run a compliant mortgage business and lower origination margins we expect core earnings excluding notable items to be break-even to modestly profitable assuming market and industry conditions materialize as expected and the successful execution of our strategic initiatives.
Now I will turn it over to Rob to discuss our results for the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Glen.
Our consolidated results are shown on slide 11 and notable items are shown on slide 12.
For the third quarter of 2015 we reported a net loss attributable to PHH Corporation of $50 million or $0.84 per basic share.
This compares to a net loss in continuing operations of $62 million or $1.20 per basic share in the prior quarter.
Included in this quarter's results were a pretax market-related MSR mark-to-market adjustment net of hedging gains of negative $22 million as compared to a positive $20 million in the second quarter of 2015.
Core loss pre-tax in the third quarter which excludes the net MSR mark and a result of discontinued operations totaled $68 million and included $62 million in pretax charges comprised of $44 million in additional legal and regulatory reserves $17 million in reengineering and growth related charges and investments and $1 million in expenses related to the sale and separation of our fleet business net of transition services revenues.
This compares to our pretax core loss of $100 million last quarter which included $86 million in notable items and net fleet separation costs.
For the first nine months of 2015 core earnings totaled a pretax loss of $204 million including $151 million of notable items and $14 million of fleet separation costs net of transition services revenue.
This compares to our pretax core loss of $177 million for the first nine months of 2014 including $62 million of notable items and $2 million of net fleet operation costs.
Year-over-year we have experienced measurable improvement in core earnings primarily driven by higher production segment earnings and benefits of our reengineering efforts.
Moving to slide 13 in the third quarter mortgage production had a segment loss of $10 million compared to a $3 million segment profit in the second quarter.
Third quarter results for the production segment include $14 million of notable items related to reengineering costs and investments as compared to $13 million in the prior quarter.
Production volume metrics reflected seasonal declines in the third quarter.
As compared to the prior quarter total closings were $10.3 billion down 14%.
Total applications equaled $12.2 billion down 13% and interest rate locked amendments expected to close were $1.7 billion down 20%.
Total loan margins widened by 20 basis points to 319 basis points.
During the month of October margins have been fairly steady and have fluctuated in the 300 to 320 basis point range.
For the first nine months of 2015 production segment pretax loss totaled $26 million and included $33 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
This compares to a loss of $115 million for the same period in 2014 which included $4 million in charges related to notable items.
For the first nine months of 2015 applications and closings are up 20%.
Interest rate locked amendments expected to close are up 6% and total loan margins are up 30 basis points as compared to the first nine months of 2014.
Now please turn to slide 14.
Our mortgage servicing segment recorded a loss of $77 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to a segment loss of $46 million in the second quarter.
These results include market-related MSR mark-to-market adjustments net of hedging gains of negative $22 million in the third quarter and positive $20 million in the previous quarter.
During the third quarter primary mortgage rates decreased 28 basis points leading to a $72 million negative market related fair value adjustment in the MSR partially offset by $50 million of hedge gains.
On a core basis third quarter 2015 mortgage servicing pretax core loss was $55 million compared to a $66 million pretax core loss in the second quarter.
Included in the third quarter's results were $46 million of notable items $44 million of which were related to an increase in legal reserves.
The majority of the sequential quarter improvement was due to $8 million from slower prepayments $5 million from lower rep and warrant charges and $4 million from lower foreclosure and repossession expenses partially offset by $6 million in lower servicing income.
For the first nine months of 2015 the core servicing loss pretax totaled $129 million and includes $84 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
This compares to a pretax core loss of $19 million for the same period 2014 which included $22 million in charges and investments related to notable items.
Faster prepayment speeds and a reduction in the size of the owned servicing portfolio are the main drivers of the reduction in servicing segment performance.
Our total loan servicing portfolio of $227 billion in UPB at the end of the third quarter of 2015 was up $1.7 billion from last quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we valued our MSR at 91 basis points of our capitalized loan servicing portfolio or $927 million representing 3.2 times capitalized servicing multiple.
Actual annualized prepayment speeds in the third quarter were 14% as compared to 15% in the second quarter.
During the third quarter we completed $10 million in MSR sales as compared to $12 million in the second quarter.
The results of our reengineering actions are shown on slide 15.
In the third quarter we realized $28 million or $112 million on an annualized basis of reengineering benefits.
This represents approximately 50% of our annualized targeted operating benefits associated with our reengineering actions.
The primary drivers include $19 million in reengineering expense benefits and $9 million in reengineering revenue benefits.
Now moving to slide 16 with regard to liquidity.
We closed the third quarter with approximately $881 million in unrestricted cash excluding cash held in variable interest entities consistent with $880 million at the end of the second quarter.
Key cash requirements at the end of the third quarter totaled $485 million to $585 million up from $300 million to $400 million last quarter.
Third quarter key cash requirements increased primarily due to changes in contingent liquidity needs and reflect our best estimate at this time of potential liquidity needs resulting from various regulatory matters.
Cash in excess of our key cash requirements equaled $300 million to $400 million at the end of the third quarter.
As a reminder we have earmarked at least $150 million for growth of which at least $144 million remains to be invested.
With regards to reengineering we earmarked $175 million of which $107 million remains to be utilized and we expect to fund all or a substantial portion of this amount from cash flow from operations.
In addition as Glen mentioned earlier we intend to implement up to $100 million of share repurchases pursuant to our board-authorized open market share repurchase program at the next available securities purchase window.
The execution of share repurchases is subject to market and business conditions and the trading price of our common stock.
Now please turn to slide 17.
Our tangible book value for basic share at the end of the third quarter was $24.18 based on 59.8 million basic shares outstanding.
No shares were repurchased during the third quarter.
And now I'll turn it back over to Glen.
Thanks Rob.
Now please turn to slide 18.
We have gained additional clarity into our legacy regulatory matters successfully implemented TRID and have exited our MSAs.
We intend to commence open market share repurchases for up to $100 million effective upon the next available securities purchase window.
We are nearing completion of our PLS contract renegotiations.
We have completed in excess of 75% of the actions to deliver our expense reduction targets and realized approximately 50% of our expected reengineering operating benefits.
Our pipeline of PLS opportunities continues to build and while there can be no assurances that these opportunities will result in signed agreements we are excited about the prospects and potential and we are reengineering our real estate platform for disciplined profitable growth.
We are taking decisive operating actions to improve servicing profitability added over $8 billion in subservicing UPB this year and build a meaningful committed opportunity pipeline.
We continue to make meaningful investments in building a bank-like compliance process management and technology infrastructure and believe this will be a competitive advantage.
We expect the challenges facing the mortgage industry and PHH will continue into 2016.
We need to increase scale meaningfully in both production and servicing to achieve low double-digit ROE levels through the cycle a larger portion of which will need to come from inorganic sources and we are intensifying our efforts to achieve this.
We believe the investments in our business will enhance our competitiveness and we look forward to responding to the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
And with that we are ready to take questions.
Camille? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Bose George from KBW.
Hey guys good morning.
The first question just is a clarification on the buybacks.
If you do the $100 million and the reauthorization is extended and then you do the other $250 million I just wanted to make sure that incremental so if you do everything on both you end up with $350 million? No Bose.
So the Board has extended the remaining $250 million authorization from March 2016 to December 2016.
Under that $250 million we are commencing $100 million open market share repurchase program effective at the next available open window.
We will continue to monitor our regulatory development and liquidity position to consider the appropriate timing structure and it will implement the remaining $150 million.
Okay great.
That makes sense.
And in terms of the window with earnings out does that open pretty quickly? Bose we would expect that absent our being in possession of material non-public information that within two business days we would be able to commence the program as effectively in one day.
Okay great thanks.
And then switching over to normalized profitability I mean it seems like there are some pieces of it that sort of you control in terms of cost and the renegotiations which look like they will largely be done successfully.
But the other pieces you control less in terms of growth of the market share etc.
So just wanted to think about what would the returns be if you sort of accomplish everything you need on your end but it still remains hard for you to get the growth that you need? Is there kind of a way to think about where you get to on returns as you kind of wait for that growth to get there? Bose absent you know all things being equal there are still reengineering benefits that come through the P&amp;L on a fully annualized basis and that would certainly get us into the modestly profitable range.
But there are a number of things that we are expecting for 2015 so we expect the overall mortgage market to be 12% smaller than it was in 2015.
We do expect with a smaller market there will be margin compression.
We do expect that we will see profitability patterns following the home purchase market seasonality.
And there are continued increased cost to invest in maintaining a bank-like or achieving a bank-like compliance technology and profits management infrastructure.
We don't give specific numerical guidance.
We say that look we are again absent any of the changes I talked about the math would suggest you look forward to a modestly profitable scenario but we do think it's going to be a tough environment for 2016.
Okay great thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR &amp; Company.
Hey good morning.
This is Jessica Ribner in for Paul.
How are you? Good Jessica.
Just a couple of questions here.
Your previous contingencies contingent liquidity needs what did you put that at? Rob would you like to address that? Last quarter? Okay.
Yes if you turn to the key cash requirements slide Jessica.
In total our key cash requirements last quarter were $300 million to $400 million.
And it's page 16.
Of that we're now saying that's $485 million to $585 million.
The contingent liquidity needs piece of that is about $360 million to $410 million.
Okay.
And then in terms of your inorganic growth initiatives are you looking to buy a full platform or would it be more like a tuck-in acquisition or a bolt-on acquisition? How are you thinking about that? Jessica for our inorganic growth strategy we are focused on retail purchase market focused platforms that operate at meaningful scale but I would call it national scale is preferred.
But we certainly would be looking to obtain cost synergies from leveraging the substantial infrastructure that we built around compliance and shared services.
So compliance technology finance HR legal those types of things.
As it relates to our staffing activities and looking at trying to hire new loan officers we are considering individual loan officers as well as what we call loan officer teams in our recruiting activities.
But that would not include "tuck-in" acquisitions.
I wouldn't really look at it that way.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni with Autonomous Research.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
Can you give some additional detail on the building pipeline for the private label channel? What are kind of -- what's the average or range of clients that you're having conversations with on a relative basis? They may be small large like what do you think on an incremental basis that will add in volume those type of conversations and how the profitability versus what you do today? What can be the incremental lift should it be successful? So Chris certainly in this compliance environment and looking at TRID and the servicing standards and just overall the rapid pace and change and magnitude of regulatory events we are seeing I would say a mixture of people who already offer a mortgage product today and operate on a national or regional scale to people who do not offer a mortgage product today but recognize the consumer retention benefits of offering mortgage product.
So when I look at the pipeline and again compared to our product offering again we are an end-to-end private label customized service delivery model.
The nature of clients that we are seeing in the pipeline all kind of fit the profile of what we have engaged with historically which are larger regional banks and wealth management organizations.
Perfect.
So not holding you to anything but if it was successful there could be a relatively decent pickup just from the size of the organizations? Chris we can't give forward guidance on that.
Sure.
Thank you for taking my call.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the new guidance for 2016 and just wondering if you could help us think a little bit more about the key changes there.
Sort of thinking about how much of that is maybe a more difficult or softer mortgage market at the industry level versus prior expectations versus some higher costs that seems perhaps in the servicing business regulatory trade related? And how much of that might be due to different than expected economics on some of these renegotiated contracts? So again all things being equal we would expect to be modestly profitable with the successful completion of our reengineering initiatives.
However 2016 as compared to 2015 we are expecting a 15% overall smaller mortgage origination market lower mortgage origination margin.
Given the challenges we've had in staffing retail loan officers we are expecting slower organic growth.
We do expect to see increased fixed costs related to compliance technology and process management infrastructure.
We do expect that those costs that basket of costs will approach $175 million for next year which is $25 million higher than it was in 2015.
And a profitability profile that is reflective of the home purchase market seasonality.
So overall I think it's going to be a tough environment for 2015 with a smaller market.
And again while we are investing to recruit additional loan officers I still think it will be a competitive environment and so we are expecting slower organic growth.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just a second question in terms of the inorganic strategy and I appreciate your comments on sort of some of the things you're looking for.
I'm just wondering how to think about is there specific channels that you would be interested in getting into? I'm thinking specifically is there an opportunity maybe online in leveraging some technology here that might be of interest? Generally look I believe the mortgage businesses of the future need to be for lack of a better term ambidextrous.
So you need to be able to originate your retail loan officers you need to be able to originate over the phone and I think you need to be able to originate online or through mobile devices.
So in the future all three technologies will be important or all three avenues will be important and relevant.
Our focus from an inorganic growth perspective is going to continue to be purchase market focused retail platforms primarily.
We are looking for a distributed retail environment.
We certainly would consider opportunities that demonstrate strong technology capability either from a call center perspective or an online perspective.
But being that we do have call center technology today that's less impairment to us.
A market segment where we do not participate today which is still important and relevant in certain markets is the wholesale market.
So we would evaluate opportunities that have wholesale concentration as well.
Okay great.
Thanks very much for taking the questions.
We do have a follow-up question from Bose George with KBW.
Hi guys thanks.
I just wanted to back to the earlier comment I think you made about the $150 million being a reasonably possible number for regulatory losses over the reserve.
Can you just kind of go over that and describe what reasonably possible is? Is that more likely than not? Is that 30%? I mean just kind of ways for us to think about that number.
Bose reasonably possible is defined as more than remote but less than likely.
It is a defined accounting term.
It comes from accounting guidance and accounting literature.
And just given the potential variability of outcomes as it relate to some of these legacy regulatory matters we are under GAAP required to establish an on-book loss reserve for probable loss.
But we also want to provide clear and transparent disclosure around the reasonably possible loss which is again less likely than probable but more likely than remote.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to President and Chief Executive Officer Glen Messina for closing remarks.
Thank you Camille.
I want to recognize and thank the PHH Board of Directors and my colleagues at PHH for their continued hard work and enduring commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers.
Thank you and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Back to you Camille.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the PHH Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Once again ladies and gentlemen the replay will be available beginning later today at the Company's website at www.phh.com/invest or by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820 and using conference ID 6947173.
It will be archived until November 20 2015.
You may now disconnect.