Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to today's program.
[Operator Instructions] Today's program will be recorded.
And it is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Mike and good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the second quarter ended March 31 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Mey Executive Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties mostly described in our latest 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only at the date hereof.
And let me turn the call over to Rob for his opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
Our second quarter revenue of $350 million was enabled by strong operations performance across our fleet and our first full quarter with both of our drillships in drilling mode.
With excellent cost control across our organization we also established a new high-water mark for quarterly earnings at $122 million.
Our progress on the cost side is due in large part to a cost control initiative we kicked off earlier this year.
Examples of areas where we are now realizing lower costs include travel third-party rig services and our offshore labor pool.
We are committed to maintaining our excellent safety and operations focus so we will not pursue lower cost at the expense of the quality of our drilling services.
In fact we have assigned additional resources to optimize the operation of our rigs to increase their efficiency and reduce nonproductive time.
The goal is to lower the cost of drilling wells for our clients.
Clearly the most significant event for Atwood since our last earnings call was the damage incurred on the Atwood Osprey in Australia due to the effects of tropical cyclone Owen on March 12.
This storm caused several of the Osprey's mooring lines to break leading it to drift off its location as well as some minor damage at the hull and deck levels.
Fortunately no one was injured nor was there any environmental damage or harm to the seabed infrastructure as a result of this incident.
Afterward the Osprey was towed to a safe location to effect the required repairs.
We now expect to complete these repairs and return to drilling service by the middle of May.
One of the outcomes of this extended force majeure period caused by the cyclone was the triggering of a contractual right of our client to terminate the Osprey's drilling services agreement.
In lieu of this we mutually agreed to shorten the Osprey's term by a year to May of 2016 with no adjustment to the existing commercial terms.
Shifting now to our newbuild construction.
Since our last call we disclosed our agreement with the DSME shipyard that provides us with significant flexibility on the delivery timing of our 2 drillships being constructed there the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
The Atwood Admiral is scheduled to be fully constructed and commissioned by September of this year but we've exercised an option to delay the delivery until March 2016.
During the time after construction the shipyard will maintain the rig in a ready mode at a cost that is approximately 1/4 to 1/2 of what it would be to do so outside the shipyard.
We also retained one additional option to delay the Admiral by another 6 months to September 2016 if required.
We have a similar agreement in place with the shipyard regarding the schedule for the Atwood Archer.
At this time the Archer is scheduled for completion and delivery in June 2016 and we retain 2 options to delay its delivery by a further 6 months each.
Similar to the Admiral storage costs for the Archer would be paid to the shipyard for maintaining the finished rig prior to its delivery to Atwood.
Turning now to the market.
The offshore drilling space continues to be very challenging as operators show little inclination to step up their drilling activities.
Through the month of April new fixtures for both floaters and jack-ups are down considerably from year-ago levels.
Since our last call the total number of working floaters has declined by about 5% with all of the demand losses occurring in the deepwater and mid-water segments.
Ultra-deepwater demand has remained essentially flat as the number of newbuilds entering the market with contracts has just about balanced the number of active ultra-deepwater rigs that have either rolled off their contracts or had their contracts terminated early.
On the jack-up side demand is off about 5% as well but the losses are about equally split between high spec and low spec rigs.
We expect that rig demand is likely to continue to trend downward for both floaters and jack-ups over the next year as large numbers of working rigs will see their contracts expire during this time.
With operators continuing to conserve cash and delay or cancel previously contemplated drilling programs many of these working rigs that roll off contracts will likely go idle.
Despite the significant market headwinds there are 2 bright spots worth noting.
Brent oil prices appear to have bottomed and are building a base at the mid-$60 range per barrel.
As a group operators need to be sure the oil prices will not revert to the lows of earlier this year to consider increasing their spending on drilling programs.
Second we continue to see increasing attrition of both floaters and jack-ups from the active supply stacks.
Since our last call 18 floaters and 12 jack-ups that were actively marketed have been cold-stacked scrapped or announced for one of these outcomes.
The removal of these rigs from the active fleet is helping to preserve market utilization amid falling rig demand.
We expect rig attrition to be a continuing theme throughout 2015 and 2016 as rigs especially older less capable rigs roll off their contracts and find slim prospects for returning to work in a reasonable time frame.
Despite our near-term bearishness we maintain our view that calendar year 2017 will likely be a recovery year for our industry.
In terms of Atwood's marketing efforts securing initial contracts for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer remains our highest priority.
We continue to receive very positive feedback from operators on our gigs especially with the excellent performance of our first 2 A-Class drillships the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever.
However with so few active tenders in each of these highly contested and subject to further delays it is possible that we may not secure our initial contract on the Admiral until later this year or early calendar 2016.
On the jack-up side our most immediate need is securing additional work for the Atwood Mako.
The Mako is now expected to be available in July and we are pursuing a number of suitable programs in Southeast Asia that line up well with the Mako's availability.
Three of our other 4 jack-ups will also become available over the next 9 months so marketing efforts for each also remain a high priority.
This concludes my prepared comments so I'll pass the call back to Mark who will take us through the financials.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I'll review our second quarter's operating results comment on our financial position and provide updated guidance for the fiscal third quarter and remainder of the year.
Let's start with our recent quarter.
Quarterly revenues of $350 million on 189 operating days versus $352 million on 1 023 operating days in the previous quarter.
The reduction in operating days is due to the Atwood Hunter being idle for the entire quarter.
Record diluted earnings per share were $1.89 versus $0.71 for the prior quarter.
Note that the prior quarter's earnings per share reflected the impairment charge on the Atwood Hunter and loss on sale of the Southern Cross.
Revenues and earnings per share were driven by good [ph] revenue efficiency of 94% across the fleet and the ongoing impact of our cost control initiatives.
Net margins of 35% were significantly above the prior quarter's adjusted net margin of 31% due to the higher average day rates and lower costs across the fleet.
Note that the $0.31 was adjusted for the impairment and loss on sale mentioned above.
Contract drilling cost excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $131 million for the quarter as compared to $136 million net of reimbursable cost for the previous quarter.
When adjusted for the loss on sale of the Atwood Hunter which is separately disclosed on the face of the income statement contract drilling costs were about 6% below the guidance I provided on the prior conference call.
I would like to repeat Rob's earlier comments as to the categories driving these lower costs.
[indiscernible] note that these cost reductions are sustainable and will be further evidenced by my updated full year cost guidance provided later during this call.
G&amp;A expenses totaled $15 million in line with my prior guidance.
Tax rate effective tax rate was 9.1% also in line with my prior guidance.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Capital expenditures totaled $28 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of progress payments on certain long lead time capital spares.
Net debt decreased by $100 million to $1.52 billion at March 31 with our net debt-to-capital ratio decreasing from 38.3% to 35.8% quarter-on-quarter.
In March we amended the maturity of our $1.55 billion revolving credit facility from May 2018 to May 2019.
This is now our earliest debt maturity.
Liquidity increased slightly to $593 million at the end of the quarter and I do not foresee it falling below $400 million until the delivery of the Atwood Archer in mid-2016.
Using our current conservative financial projections we forecast at least $600 million of liquidity thereafter.
Additionally during the quarter we negotiated further flexibility for the delivery dates of our 2 remaining drillships under construction at the DSME shipyard in South Korea.
We're now able to delay delivery of each drillship by 2 additional periods of 6 months per drillship the first of which option we exercised on the Atwood Admiral on March 30.
The Admiral is now scheduled for delivery on March 31 2016.
The shipyard payment terms have also been modified as a result of these delivery delays which we'll expand upon a little later below.
The financial impact of delayed delivery of the Admiral to our planning model is positive to both liquidity levels and leverage ratios.
Let's now discuss the outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2015.
Before I begin with the guidance let me remind you that 96% of our earning days for 2015 are currently contracted.
Therefore Mako one of the high specification specific [indiscernible] jack-ups is the only availability in fiscal 2015.
In addition for fiscal 2016 approximately 55% of our available days are contracted.
Adding to Rob's comments on the Osprey's force majeure incident the rig operated at 90% of its operating rate for the first 30 days of force majeure through April 12.
Thereafter the force majeure rate is reduced to 40% of operating rate.
We expect the Osprey to complete its repairs and be available to return to work in mid-May.
Let me also provide you with an update on the Atwood Hunter.
We are finalizing preparations to begin towing the rig to a recycling shipyard and expect the rig to arrive at the shipyard in July.
The cost to prepare the rig and delivery to the recycling shipyard resulted in the loss on sale of $5.5 million which is recognized this quarter.
Now for my updated guidance.
Referencing the most recent fleet status report we have planned out-of-service days as follows: 5 days on the Atwood Osprey in June for scheduled maintenance; we on the Atwood Falcon we incurred 5.5 days earlier in April to change out some mooring wires; and then the Atwood Eagle 21 days in next fiscal year in October for its special survey.
All costs associated with these other service days are included in my 2015 cost guidance below.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $10 million for the fiscal third quarter.
Regarding contract drilling costs I anticipate full year 2015 to range between $520 million to $540 million with the fiscal third quarter ranging between $125 million and $135 million.
This annual contract drilling cost forecast is 5% below my previously lowered full year cost guidance of between $550 million and $570 million.
These estimates for contract drilling cost exclude reimbursable costs which will approximate $7 million for the third quarter and $34 million for the fiscal year.
Depreciation should remain flat at $43 million for the third quarter and total $173 million for the year.
G&amp;A expense should range between $13 million and $15 million for the fiscal third and fourth quarters.
For the full year our prior G&amp;A expense guidance remains unchanged at $60 million.
Interest expense should range between $11 million and $14 million net of capitalized interest for each of the remaining 2 quarters.
We expect our effective tax rate for the third quarter to approximate 10% and range between 10% and 12% for the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures should total between $80 million and $90 million in the third quarter including progress payments of $25 million each on the Atwood Admiral and the Atwood Archer.
Full year 2015 CapEx should approximate $450 million.
As a consequence of further delay in the Atwood Admiral by additional 6 months we now have a milestone payment of $150 million on September 30 2015 and a final payment of $146 million on March 31 2016.
The Atwood Admiral's final payment may be further modified in the event we exercise our option to delay delivery of the rig from March 31 2016 to September 30 2016.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike for questions.
Mike? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Roland Morris with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get an idea maybe if you could expand a little bit on your conversations with Chevron on the Osprey.
Obviously we've seen operators more looking to reduce rates in the near-term.
So I know obviously some of those with the NOCs have been on the jack-up side and we're looking at different rig here in a different class of work but I was just wondering in terms of dropping a year off in 2016 to 2017 versus in the near-term trying to get the rate lower was that part of the conversation or was that -- how are they looking at it and how did that conversation go? As you can appreciate we can't go into details on discussions we have with our clients beyond what we've announced.
But I will share with you that there's no question that operators today are looking to be conservative on their drilling programs.
I mentioned that in my prepared comments.
And clearly with some uncertainty about the second year of the remaining drilling program and the contractual right that was triggered by the force majeure period there was an opportunity for our client to look to lower its exposure -- their exposure to the Atwood Osprey drilling program.
So we mutually agreed it and we want to put it behind us and move on down the road.
The rig continues to operate very safely very reliably for Chevron and we've got a great relationship and it's behind us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe if you could just comment on some of the conversations you've been having in terms of the jack-up market in Southeast Asia and where you're looking to add work.
If you could just kind of give some color on how that's progressing that would be helpful.
Yes I mean the Atwood Mako is doing some moving around.
As you can see from our fleet status report we had been in Thailand.
We're in Malaysia now and heading to Vietnam.
And we see a number of opportunities in those Southeast Asian nations for work that lines up well with the Mako.
Most of that work is shorter-term in nature but I will say that there's quite a bit of it out there.
The caveat is that similar to the floater market there's a lot of competition for every job.
So it's going to be competitive and we expect that that's going to be part of both markets here over the next couple of years.
However the Atwood Mako has performed extremely well for each of the clients it's worked for.
And so we have a good position we think to continue working the rig without any gaps in coverage.
And we'll go next to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Great quarter.
Rob with your strategy to delay your contracted newbuilds certainly it helps you from a capital flexibility standpoint.
But it also hopefully moves you beyond the worst part of the pricing window this cycle.
Do you expect that the sixth generation rigs are going to be pricing towards cash breakeven during the trough here over the next year? Or do you think that the stacking and utilization dynamics will defray pricing enough so that trough day rates for the top rigs don't go meaningfully below $300 000 a day? And since this is not really an Atwood question I'm asking you for just your opinion really.
Well Ian I think it really just depends on what happens on the demand side as well as what do largely Atwood's competitors do about maintaining their supply of rigs in the market.
Because if market utilization were to continue to drop across the industry obviously that's going to put more pressure on day rates and you could certainly get closer to cash breakeven.
You have seen with -- another factor that I think is bullish that I didn't mention in our -- my prepared comments is you have seen a number of other ultra-deepwater newbuild rigs get delayed as well.
So we count about 18 of those rigs that have been delayed really just since the last earnings call by a few months or more and keeping those rigs out of the market is also helping hold up marketed utilization.
So I think we're just going to have to watch the space going forward.
Clearly 2015 budgets have been set.
And this year is pretty much a write-off for all of us in the industry.
I think as we see the buildup of a base on the oil price and then hopefully some more willingness to return to the drill bit in 2016 we'll stay out of the cash breakeven range that you're talking about for ultra-deepwater.
But I think at this point that remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick follow-up on pricing also.
Apart from the Osprey I don't think we've seen much if any renegotiations or contract surprises for Atwood.
And apart from the companies with significant NOC exposure there hasn't been a whole lot that's been announced industry-wide.
So is it your sense that there's still a lot of repricing of contracts across the customer spectrum that's going to unfold over the course of the spring and summer? And sort of what is an acceptable approach to you with your backlog in terms of participating in that pricing reset? Well I can't speak for our competitors' clients and what they may be thinking.
But we've been pretty open to say that we want to work with our existing clients with contracts now that may be more challenging for them given the low oil price environment to try to develop some win-win solutions.
The blend and extend model has been out there for a long time.
And given the lack of appetite for operators to add any term on in this market there haven't been a lot of takers on those structures.
Now as we move forward and the oil prices stabilize and maybe people gain a little more confidence that the worst may be over we may see some opportunities for that.
But as you can see from our financial and operational results we continue to deliver great service to our clients.
We're minimizing nonproductive time.
We're lowering well cost by doing that.
And as I mentioned we've got an optimization initiative underway to even get more out of our assets for our clients especially in this challenging environment.
So we feel very good about our contracts and our work with our clients and we anticipate that we're not going to have any other issues going forward.
And we'll go next to Dan Boyd with BMO Capital.
Earlier today one of your I guess competitors or peers made a comment that momentum is building and just wanted to see if you would agree with that and I don't know if that probably speaks to [indiscernible] conversations with customers.
But have you seen an improvement at that level? Well it's hard for me to gauge the context with which that is made.
I mean there is certainly momentum building in terms of oil price recovery and rig attrition and both of those are bullish for our business.
But at the same time demand has fallen and we project that it will continue to fall.
So the balance of those potentially countervailing forces I think is uncertain as I responded in a previous question.
But there are definitely some bright spots in the market around rig supply and oil price.
And ultimately those factors if they continue will bear out in terms of opportunities for our business to recover.
Okay.
And then the decision to further delay the Admiral is it safe to or I guess would you characterize it as there's no work for the rig or there's no work at a price that you think would offer attractive returns on capital for the newbuild? Well I think to say there's no work is an overstatement but there's very little work being sought by operators for ultra-deepwater rigs on new programs right now.
There's really been almost a moratorium on...
[Audio Gap] their way through this downturn.
So it isn't a question of a lot of available demand that's going at a price that contractors aren't interested in.
The demand side of the story has really dried up and that's why you're seeing lots of rigs rolling off without getting renewal which is why we also think that many of those will ultimately cold-stack or scrap because they won't see near-term prospects.
So the rest of this year and the early part of next year are likely to be very difficult years in terms of visible demand and we think that this is going to pick up as we move into 2017.
And we'll go next to Theo Meryanos with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Certainly it's early but we've heard from industry that newbuilds have essentially ground to a halt coupled with the acceleration in cold-stacking.
Where do you think we are in terms of moving towards a balanced market at least thinking on a short medium term I guess? Well again similar to some of the earlier responses I gave we have to see where demand troughs and then starts to pick back up.
And we think that that's likely to happen as we move into '16 to the later part of next year.
We'll hope to see some demand increase and then move into 2017 as a recovery year.
But even with that it's our perspective that the available supply of rigs is going to outstrip demand especially with fallen demand.
And that means that a number of these rigs that are rolling off contracts to get the rig fleet at a reasonably utilization let's say 90% plus across-the-board you're going have to see more retirements whether those are cold-stackings or scrapping.
And we think that's likely to happen.
But until that plays out it will be a little hard to predict the balance of those forces.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And just real quick do you have a figure on the storage cost for the Admiral and Archer? Yes.
It's really broken into 3 phases Theo the first 6 months second 6 months and third 6 months.
The first 6 months is about $17 000 per day.
The second 6 months is just shy of $30 000 a day and then if we go beyond that into the third 6 months that gets to about $50 000 a day.
And we'll go next to Matthew Marietta with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to Australia the prospects for the Eagle and Falcon can you help us understand the marketing efforts where we're at? Maybe remind us what the competitive advantages are if any for Atwood in the region? And any nuances in design characteristics et cetera of the rigs that make them favorable as you go through this process? Yes I mean there are a number of factors we've talked about in previous calls with -- that really line up well with the Eagle and Falcon continuing to work in Australia.
First of all we're working with a couple of clients Woodside and BHP that are long-term clients of Atwood and who we're aware have additional work.
Both of the rigs are performing well and as long as they deliver safe and reliable service if there's additional work we'd like to think we're going to get a good shot at it.
And then from just a structural perspective we tend to be drilling in shallow water depth.
So DP rigs really can't play in that vicinity [ph] and the capability of these rigs is more than ample for the kind of wells that are being drilled.
So we still feel good about the prospects for renewal of both rigs and we'll -- we're continuing to market to bring those into realization.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I'm not mistaken I think the Eagle's got a survey coming up.
Any insight update into maybe what to expect from that and what decision points are in front of you from a capital standpoint on both of these rigs as you move forward? Well the Eagle survey is scheduled for October.
And obviously we do quite a bit of preparatory work for that.
We're not anticipating any big surprises.
We know that rig has been well maintained.
And we think that the out-of-service time we've allocated 21 days should be sufficient.
And Matt from a cost prospective we're looking at around $10 million to $12 million.
So this is not a dramatic amount of funds.
It's going to be just [indiscernible] ordinary costs.
Research Division</strong> And I guess along those same lines if you don't mind one more.
These have been solid cash flow assets for the company over the course of time.
What would you need to see to invest considerable amounts of capital back into the rigs say a major project or upgrade? How would that decision process unfold? What would you need to see in the market to justify that? Well just to be clear we're not envisioning seeing that as a requirement now.
But as a general condition we would want to have confidence that we're going to get a good return on that capital.
And the best way to ascertain that is know that the market will be there in the form of a contract commitment.
We recognize that these are older rigs and that they're certainly nearing the end of their useful lives.
We think there's still plenty of life left but we're clearly on the sunset side of their useful lives.
So we want to be careful about how we allocate capital to those rigs.
But if the market is there and we can't imagine a better place to have those rigs positioned than in the Australian market then we would certainly consider value-adding investments to keep them active.
And we'll go next to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the cost-cutting assets like what are the sources of cost reductions in terms of putting in different buckets of labors material supplies insurance? Any other items that you could identify? Yes Waqar you kind of touched on some of them already.
What you've left out there perhaps is we've got some exchange rate benefits as well given our positions in Australia the Beacon in Europe.
As Rob mentioned earlier we've maintained a labor pool which during the upmarket was necessary to be able to staff and pull [ph] in for rigs as folks leave the company.
Well that's no longer necessary given the excess of personnel right now.
Any kind of elective premiums has been seriously considered as well.
Obviously some projects as you always know can move between quarters due to timing.
So there has been some of that and there's been a few projects which when you budget the beginning of the year which are nice-to-haves those have been eliminated.
The total of that is not dramatic number but it certainly all adds together to have this reduced cost level which we think we could sustain into the future.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to quantify if the labor costs are down x percent versus material supply cost down y percent or whatever the number is? Well yes we obviously track these in various buckets.
I'm not sure I'm going to get into that in the call.
We can discuss this later.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rob on the sublet market how do you see that developing? Where does it stand? Is it increasing or is it declining or stable now from where we were before? Well Waqar just with the passage of time the opportunities for sublets amortize and I would say that the sublet market really hasn't moved against us.
In fact it may be moving for us.
You're getting to a point now where either rigs have been sublet.
In some cases they've been early terminated.
In other cases they just rolled off contract.
And I think you're now getting down to more of a kernel of real demand that's there with the current holders of the rigs and the contracts.
We're not aware of any of our rigs that are currently working that are being actively sublet.
And that's across-the-board and across geographies.
And I think that that's going to become more the norm as we move through the year and as contract durations shrink or some of the contracts roll off.
And we'll go next to David Smith with Heikkinen Energy.
LLC</strong> Regarding the shipyard delay agreements just to follow up on that schedule of cost you provided earlier I just wanted to make sure I understood if that is an OpEx line impact or if the agreement includes an interest payment component and how that's treated? Yes David.
Great question.
The $17 000 a day that's all interest for the first 6 months because they're still constructing the rig.
The second 6 months and the third 6 months because the rig will be completed as currently envisioned by SME that's an amalgamation of cost including financing costs some insurance costs some service tech costs to keep the rig functioning to inspect the equipment to ensure that it's capable [ph] to run on a regular basis and then some people costs from Atwood as well to oversee the rig.
And obviously you're going to have some fuel costs and you're using shore-based power which is a lot cheaper but that will also be included in the $30 000 or $17 000 or $50 000 depending on which period we are talking about.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And that sorry for being dense on this but that interest component is that going to flow into -- would that flow into capitalized interest? No that gets expensed.
That's included in our guidance I gave you earlier.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
I wanted to make sure.
And just a quick follow-up hope I didn't miss this but curious if the operating expense for the Osprey in the fiscal third quarter if that reflects kind of normal OpEx level for the rig or if there's any unusual impact for the quarter.
There may be a little additional OpEx on the rig.
The biggest chunk of that which is the amount which we're unable to collect from underwriters or through our contract with Chevron that's been recognized in the second quarter already.
But for the most part the Osprey will be except for the 5 days out of service and those costs are somewhere around $4 million it's -- it will be its normal run rate for the quarter.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Admiral and the Archer.
I guess I read it as constructive because I guess at some point I thought that if you made the decision to delay the rigs they would be done in tandem.
And so Rob that coupled with some of your prepared remarks it seems as though you're fairly constructive on this market righting itself by the time we get to 2017.
So just curious as to what might have changed with regard to the thought process and not delaying both in tandem? I think the real difference there is just the timing for when we needed to exercise the option on the Admiral.
And so that has closed the gap on the delivery timing.
But in fact if we exercise options in tandem between the 2 rigs that would remain 9 months apart in terms of the delivery.
So you're just seeing a difference in the notice periods for the 2 rigs given that the Admiral delivery was more immediate.
And at this point we have no plans to shorten the gap between the delivery of the rigs.
Right now both rigs are still on a schedule to be completed 9 months apart.
And now clearly we would have the opportunity to take completed rigs at different intervals depending on what's happening in the market.
But in terms of completion of construction the 2 rigs remain 9 months apart.
For the Archer we need to declare the option to delay that by 6 months by September 30 of this year.
And we'll go next to Gary Stromberg with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mark I just wanted to make sure I have CapEx right in my model.
Did you say 2015 CapEx will now be $450 million including newbuilds? And then how should we think about 2016? Yes Gary that's correct.
Currently for 2016 we have $645 million forecasted and this includes the current delivery schedule of the Admiral and the Archer.
So to the previous question from Byron if we do opt to delay the Archer by 6 months.
That's drops down to about $450 million as well so similar to this year and the $205 million which we postponed flows into 2017 which becomes then about $285 million of CapEx in '17.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any thoughts on maintenance capital for your fleet going forward? We've been consistent in using an $80 million run rate for maintenance CapEx.
Now to be fair that included the Hunter as an operating rig as well.
So with the Hunter no longer being part of our fleet that may come down some.
But I think from a conservative perspective I like to use $80 million until we know something different.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then final one is just on the dividend.
What's the dividend policy now? Well as you know the board declared a dividend for 2015 last August.
That was in a different oil price environment.
Obviously the market dynamics the oil price everything has come off quite dramatically over the last 6 months.
So each quarter given our incorporation in Texas the board has to redeclare or declare a dividend once again.
So they'll take a look at this at our May board meeting and then again at our August board meeting.
I cannot speak for the board.
But suffice to say the market is a lot different and there may be a different decision or not over the next few quarters.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
If there are no further questions we want to thank everybody for joining today's call.
And until next quarter goodbye.
And thank you for joining us today ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's program.
We certainly do appreciate everyone's participation.
You may disconnect at any time.