Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation the lines will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday November 1 2012.
I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Marissa.
Good morning to you and our audience and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2012 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Chairman Gary Rich President and CEO and Kirk Brassfield Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance that we believe will be informative and beneficial.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments today are from Bobby Parker.
Bobby?  Thanks Rich and welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2012 third quarter results.
We will review our operational performance and financial results in detail in a moment.
Before that so I have the pleasure of introducing Parker’s new President and CEO Gary Rich.
Let me tell you some things about Gary and why the entire Board of Directors believe he is the right person to be the CEO of Parker Drilling.
When the board set out its criteria to beginning of the selection process among those were three important attributes deep and broad industrial knowledge and international experience a record of successful execution and better its performance and the demonstrated ability to envision growth and lead others to achieve it.
I believe Gary has all those attributes and more.
Before Parker Gary spend over 25 years at Baker Hughes one of the industries leading equipment and solutions provider.
He led the Hughes Christensen Division for a number of years and many of the notable successes of that business were achieved during his time.
Many of Gary’s assignments for Baker Hughes were positioned with significant international responsibilities or global mandate including his most recent role as Vice President of global sales.
He represented the company before international oil companies national oil companies as well as large and small independent operators around the world.
He brings a broad understanding of markets worldwide and key market players that are important to Parker and our future.
In addition while at Baker Hughes Gary had an important role in defining the company’s forward vision including developing its future leaders.
As you get to know Gary I believe you’ll come to the same conclusion as our board.
We’ve made a great hire for Parker.
Gary has not only the qualifications of a CEO but he has the vision and desire to lay out a path of performance in growth for Parker that I believe will make a positive difference for our shareholders our customers our employees and in communities where we were.
As for myself I’ll return to my old job Executive Chairman which includes doing my best to make Gary and Parker successful.
This is a beginning of a new era for Parker and our CEO and it’s my pleasure then to introduce Gary to review our operating results.
Gary?  Thanks Bobby.
I’m quite pleased to be here and to have this opportunity to lead Parker Drilling.
I choose to come here because among other things I saw great assets with great potential.
As I’ve met with many of the employees during my first month on the job I’ve also come to appreciate that we have a great pool of human talent here at Parker.
I’m really looking forward to what we can do together to make this an even better company for our shareholders as well as for our customers and our employees.
One of my first objectives is to finish the projects that Bobby has been most intently focused on first get the Alaska Drilling rigs completed and working and we’re making good progress.
One rig is completed its initial acceptance test together with our client we developed a punch list of items that needed further attention.
Nearly all of those items have been corrected.
There are a few in the final stages of being corrected and the rig is expected to be ready to begin drilling before year-end.
The second rig will begin acceptance testing shortly after deployment of the first rig.
Since both rigs are identical we will quickly apply the learning from acceptance testing of the first rig to accelerate final preparation for the second rig deployment.
Our crews on the North Slope are well trained and rehearsed and are ready to start drilling.
I’m looking forward to the day each of these new rigs spud their first well.
Second on Bobby’s list was international rig fleet utilization.
As has been noted before our current rig utilization is not satisfactory.
Of particular interest is our fleet of nine rigs in Kazakhstan for too long there have been three or fewer of those rigs working.
Our international business development team has been diligently working to secure additional contracts.
Recently we signed a contract for a third land rig to go to work in the Karachaganak field.
They were being mobilized to work starting early next year.
In addition there are prospects to put other rigs to work both in and outside of Kazakhstan.
We’re also marketing two of the Kazakhstan rigs to potential buyers.
Another Bobby’s priority has been to maintain our business momentum and safety focus during the period of Executive transition.
I joined Bobby in his commitment to safety.
I want the best available people wanting to work for Parker on our rigs in our warehouses and shops at every office and location making that happen includes providing them with safe working conditions.
Parker safety performance is among the best in the industry and continues to improve.
I expect to carry on that tradition.
In addition to completing these projects there are four strategic objectives you’ll hear me address regularly as keys to the success of Parker’s future.
These are first delivering reliable results second improving profitability third strengthening our strategic position and fourth developing pads for future revenue growth.
I look forward to sharing more of my thoughts on these objectives and reporting progress on them in the future.
For now though let me stay with the purpose of this call and turn to a review of the business conditions and market trends as we see them.
Demand for rental tools in the U.S.
land drilling market is slow.
As a result rental tool inventory utilization and pricing have declined.
So both of these measures have come down from their cyclical peak they are at levels that continued to produce solid earnings and cash flow for Parker.
I was in New Iberia Louisiana yesterday meeting with the leadership and many employees of our Quail Rental Tools business segment.
I’m confident in the ability of those leaders to appropriately respond to the current market environment.
Orders of drill pipe and related products have been reduced however equipment we ordered earlier in the year continued to be received in the third quarter and an additional amount we received in the fourth quarter.
Our Rental Tools business in the Gulf of Mexico continues to grow servicing drilling programs on the shelf and in deepwater with drill pipe BOPs landing strings and related products.
This growth will provide some offset to the unfavorable trends on land.
The Gulf of Mexico shallow water barge drilling market appears steady primarily focused on oil targets.
Industry data show about 80% of the industry’s available rigs currently working and our fleet continues to account for about half of the drilling that takes place in this market.
We believe our average day rig continues to be above industry averages which we attribute to our consistent and reliable drilling performance and the number of multi-well drilling programs to provide steady work for some of our rigs.
In the international drilling market prices for oil and natural gas have been a stimulus to exploration and development spending.
Our international rig fleet utilization has not benefited from this.
However there has been a notable increase in drilling intentions in several of the markets in which we currently operate and this has significant increased our tender activity.
As this unfolds more broadly I expect it to lead to more demand for the contract drilling and technical services we provide.
That concludes my remarks I’ll turn this over to Kirk Brassfield to discuss our operating and financial performance.
Kirk?  Thanks Gary.
For the 2012 third quarter we reported revenues of $165.3 million segment gross margins of $63.8 million EBITDA of $55 million and net income of $10.9 million.
Each of these measures was less than in the prior year’s third quarter.
Our reported earnings were $0.09 per diluted share and $0.10 per share when adjusted for non-routine items.
The rental tool segment reported revenues of $59.9 million gross margin of $38.1 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue was 63.5%.
Compared with the prior year’s third quarter revenues declined 4% and gross margin declined 13% primarily driven by price discounting in the Bakken and Eagle Ford where pipe deliveries has been increasing – have been increasing and drilling activity slowed.
The impact of this was somewhat offset by increases in our international business and in Gulf of Mexico rentals.
In the third quarter we took in about 5 million of new inventory and we expect we will taking between 10 million and 15 million of new inventory in the fourth quarter.
Both of these are well below the first half run rate of about 20 million per quarter.
The U.S.
barge drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $33.1 million gross margin of $15.9 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 47.9%.
All of these reflect significant increases from the prior year’s third quarter.
Our third quarter average utilization was 80%.
Our reported average utilization is based on the fleet of 13 barge rigs which includes two rigs that would require capital upgrades before they operate.
Excluding these two rigs we were at 94% utilization with the equivalent of 10.4 rigs working of our fleet of 11 marketed rigs compared with 2011 third quarter utilization of 97% or the equivalent of 10.7 rigs working.
Our average day rate increased by 18% to 33 200 per day from 28 200 in the 2011 third quarter.
Today 10 of our 11 barge rigs are at work with our one idle rig scheduled to return to work early this month.
Our current average day rate is 33 300.
Most of our rigs are engaged in drilling for oil as is also true for most of the industry’s Gulf of Mexico barge drilling fleet.
There is a shortage of deep gas drilling programs in this market so some of our deepest drilling rigs continue to drill shallow wells at corresponding day rates.
The U.S.
drilling segment recorded no revenues for the 2012 and 2011 third quarter.
The 2012 third quarters operating expenses of $2.6 million are primarily those associated with the AADU rig commissioning process and rig related operating cost.
The first of the two AADU rigs began the acceptance testing process early in the third quarter at that time we began expensing rig related cost and depreciating the rig and its components.
The prior year expenses were mostly cost and support pre operational needs including training and facility expenses.
Our international drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $68.5 million gross margin of $12.6 million and gross margin as a percent of revenue of 18.4% compared with the 2011 third quarter segment revenues gross margins and gross margin as a percentage of revenues all declined primarily due to lower utilization of our international rig fleet.
In addition lower earnings on higher revenues from O&amp;M contracts added to the decline in gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues.
Our international rig fleet average utilization was 45% during the 2012 third quarter with the equivalent of 11.7 rigs working during the period.
The comparable utilization for last year’s third quarter was 48% with the equivalent of 12.5 rigs employed.
The primary cause of the decline in utilization compared with the prior year’s third quarter was having our Caspian Sea barge rig 257 idle since earlier this year.
In the Latin America region our ten rig fleet operated at 60% average utilization less than last year’s third quarter average utilization of 73%.
The year-to-year change was primarily due to having two rigs idle during the 2012 third quarter in Columbia after each completed its contracted work.
This was partly offset by the reactivation of a rig in Mexico late in last year’s third quarter.
In the eastern hemisphere region our 16 rig fleet operated at 35% utilization compared with the prior year’s third quarter average utilization of 33%.
The utilization increase was primarily the result of putting two previously idle rigs to work in Algeria earlier this year offsetting the impact of having the Caspian Sea drilling barge idle since this year second quarter.
The international drilling segment O&amp;M projects had lower segment gross margins on higher revenues in the 2012 third quarter compared with the 2011 third quarter.
The increase in O&amp;M revenues is primarily due to increased contributions from the Coral Sea rig operating project in Papua New Guinea and a new management contract in China.
This was partially offset by reduction in overall revenues associated with our O&amp;M activities on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Revenues for the 2011 third quarter included those from the Yastreb rig relocation project and the day rate contracts for the Yastreb rig and Orlan platform.
The rig relocation project was completed in late 2011 and the day rate contracts which expired earlier this year have been replaced with the cost plus operating contracts producing lower revenues and earnings.
The declining segment gross margin is primarily due to lower rig utilization and reduced earnings realized from the O&amp;M contracts for projects on Sakhalin.
Our technical service segment revenues were 3.7 million for the 2012 third quarter and gross margin was a loss of 79 000.
Revenues are lower than in the 2011 third quarter reflecting primarily the completion earlier this year of some early phase engineering projects and the transition of the Berkut platform project from its engineering phase to a less revenue intensive construction phase.
G&amp;A expense in the third quarter was $8.9 million compared with the prior year’s third quarter expense of $8.6 million.
Both years included expenses related to the DOJ SEC and Parker investigations.
Excluding these items adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2012 third quarter was $8.3 million compared with similarly adjusted G&amp;A expense of 7.1 from the 2011 third quarter.
This increase was primarily due to cost associated with the July departure of an executive officer and the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.
Total interest cost in the 2012 third quarter was $10.7 million with $8.2 million recorded as interest expense and $2.5 million being capitalized.
Most of the capitalized interest is related to AADU rig construction and the prior year’s third quarter total interest cost was $10.6 million with $5.6 million recorded as expense and $5 million being capitalized.
The increase in interest expense is primarily due to the impact of having the first AADU rig move from the construction project to the commissioning process.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 38% and we expect the tax rate for the year to be similar to the third quarter level.
Before turning to other financial items let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near-term financial performance and comparisons.
The first of the AADU rigs began its acceptance testing process early in the third quarter.
At that time we began expensing rig related cost and depreciating the rig and its components.
Revenues for that rig are not expected until it begins operating later this quarter.
The second AADU process will go through a similar process shortly after the first rig is operational.
As a result we expect there will be some further months ahead in which we will have rig related expenses with little or no operating revenues.
We’re making changes to our rig fleet in Kazakhstan to better reflect our long term opportunities there.
At the end of the third quarter we reclassified two of the rigs as assets held for sale these are two older technology land rigs that we believe maybe of interest to others.
We will began to actively preposition other rigs in our international rig fleet to locations that we believe provide more ready access to market where we expect them to find work.
This should improve our tender opportunities by reducing the mobilization time.
As a result we could incur mobilization costs that are not funded by a drilling contract.
We have begun the implementation of an Oracle based enterprise resource planning system.
The system will provide a platform to support all our major business functions in a more efficient less costly and more responsive manner and will increase visibility and insight into the results of our business.
Today the majority of cost of developing the system have been capitalized as they support development activities.
As we proceed through deployment and into the net implementation this year and next we expect to have added G&amp;A expenses related to conversion and personnel training these cost should diminish over time as we improve our processes and realize operational savings and efficiency from the new system.
Turning to other financial matters our cash balance at quarter end was $114.1 million compared to $97.9 million at the end of 2011.
Third quarter capital expenditures were $38.1 million bringing our year-to-date capital spend to $147.7 million included in that are Alaska rig construction spending of $69.9 million year-to-date Rental Tools expenditures of $49.6 million year-to-date and $9 million year-to-date for our new ERP system.
At the end of the third quarter we have $472.5 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $358.3 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 37.1%.
During the fourth quarter we plan to refinance our revolving credit facility at term similar to our current agreement.
The current agreement matures in May 2013.
We believe our balance sheet is in good shape and that our operational performances and strategic balance and diversity can provide cash flows that will allow us to continue to be successful and grow profitably.
That is the operations and financial review I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Kirk.
The middle part of this year has been a challenging period.
We believe that our competitive position operating performance and geographic and market diversity are strategic strengths to position us to navigate these market challenges take advantage of competitive opportunities and produce resilient operating results.
I believe the same strength provide a foundation from which to develop as per further profitable growth in the future.
Looking ahead I expect the recent trend in U.S.
land drilling will lead to further reductions in the demand for our Rental Tools.
Having cut back our purchases of new tubular goods we expect our inventory of Rental Tools will adjust to market conditions quickly and that this business will sustain its traditional strong earnings and cash flow.
In addition we believe the growing level of deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico will be a source of business opportunity for the Rental Tool segment.
There is solid demand for drilling in the shallow waters of the U.S.
Gulf.
We believe our drilling performance and the markets focus on oil targets will support a solid utilization of our barge drilling fleet.
Further development of deep gas plays may provide additional growth opportunities for this business segment.
Contract terms and market conditions specific to our international markets are expected to result in further near term declines in utilization for our international rig fleet and reduced levels of revenues and earnings from our O&amp;M contract portfolio.
While rig deployment opportunities take time to develop our business development team has been working on a selection of rig tenders that should provide operational momentum for 2013 and later.
I mentioned earlier about the new contract we recently secured in Kazakhstan.
Our Technical Services group is busy and engaged in some early stage engineering development projects one or two of these could transform into more expansive technical services activity this year or next.
To summarize our outlook shifting trends in the U.S.
land drilling and the market general uncertainty about the outlook for oil and natural gas prices will continue to impact our domestic Rental Tools business.
The sluggish recovery of land drilling in the international markets will serve we serve will continue to limit the near-term growth opportunities for our international drilling business however continued growth of drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico inland on the shelf and then deepwater is expected to further benefit both our Rental Tool segment and our Barge Drilling segments.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
At this time we will start the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Walt Chancellor for John Keller.
Good morning Walt.
So I guess just to get started on the Alaska I appreciate the update there just wondering if we could get maybe a little bit more detail as we look to get these rigs or the first rig working in the fourth quarter what are the critical path items or dates that need to be cleared to get these up and running just a little bit more detail there would be appreciated?  Walt this is Gary.
I appreciate the question and we’ve been spending lot of time looking at these critical path items over the last few days at least I have since I’ve come into the Parker organization and I’m very pleased with the team that we have and the focus that they have placed on making sure we get those units ready and operating.
We got a couple of items that we’re still finalizing in terms of having the rigs ready to go.
We will then have and we’re very close to that this week we’ve seen some potential progress and I feel very good that we’re nearing the final conclusion there.
There will be final acceptance by our customer and then it will subject to their drilling program and when they’re ready for us to go but we were quite confident that we’ll see those rigs or the first rig operating before the end of this quarter.
Okay great.
I appreciate the color there.
And then may be on pricing a little too finely here your comments about the O&amp;M contract portfolio the reduced revenues and earnings is there anything incremental there is that just the new cost plus contract on the Sakhalin?  Walt this is Kirk.
The new contract there is incremental one it includes that third rate for crews that has been completed currently in Korea.
Okay.
But you did change though how the contract was put together as we mentioned now it’s a cost plus so that did reduce our current revenues and margins from where we had been under the old contract.
But about the plus side is that the prior contract did not include the third rig that we’re looking to come on into next year end of 2014.
So that is the incremental piece which will help build up back up those revenues and margins as we proceed through the contract.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then moving to the barge business I guess an update on operator activity or sort of what you’re seeing as the leading edge there would be greatly appreciated I mean we’re hearing at least among land players more pronounced seasonality weakening demand in Q4 I’m wondering if you’ve seen any indications of that in the barge business.
And then I guess on the other hand is as gas moves back up towards four are you seeing any incremental demand for some of those gas projects on the margin?  Well this is Gary again I think that what we’ve seen on the barge business is it’s more of a steady state than it is a decline on increase.
We see that clearly as you mentioned gas going back north of that is some real potential upside for us.
So right now it’s staying pretty steady which is at quite high utilization levels.
So we’re very confident and bullish about our barge business right now.
Okay great and then one more if I could just if you could speak briefly to the margin performance from the Rental Tools business in the quarter now decline by only about 180 basis points that seems with everything going on in North America like I guess it could have been more severe in the quarter some color there would be appreciated and then any progression during the quarter did margins exit Q3 materially worst than the average?  That’s a challenge that I ask my team when I was over in Louisiana yesterday and trying to make sure that we were on top of it and I came away from there very very pleased with the team we have and their ability to manage in this kind of uncertain environment we have in U.S.
land.
They’re doing a wonderful job to make sure that they’re involved in activities with the customer that helped demonstrate to the customer the benefits were far beyond just pricing.
And I think that gives them some protection a little bit from the competitors that we’re facing out there but there are some competitors that are putting some pressure on us and the guys are going to appropriately respond as necessary.
But the other thing that they’re really doing is making sure that as an example we’ve cut back significantly the amount of new assets that we’re deploying so that we minimize the deprecation burden that we’ll bear given the current demand levels.
And some of that as I’ve mentioned you’re going to have a carryover because some of us ordered much earlier in the year and is just finally arriving but they’re reacting quickly and I have every bit of confidence that they will continue to do well but saying that it would be unwise of us not to recognize that there is more downward pressure than there is upside in the short term.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Good morning guys.
Couple of questions on Rental Tools first with the reduction in what you’re seeing for your CapEx when you guys do to finally decide to kind of restock inventory there on your Rental Tool side what do you think based on trends right now for the cost of those assets do you think it will be more expensive less expensive or about the same to when you do finally decide to buy some more assets there?  Well that’s a good question Tray.
I don’t think that we’re going to see a significant change in the acquisition cost of those assets.
They certainly shouldn’t be pressure necessarily for them to be increasing that much right now but some of the things that we’re doing is as an example I told you yesterday the new machine shop that we’re just opening up down there in New Iberia to bring in-house some of the things that we would have gone to external suppliers to provide in the past and to do it much more efficiently.
So those are actions that the team down there are taking to make sure that we mitigate any potential cost increases in order at least secure more margin for us on our side.
Great.
And then the other question relates to Hurricane Sandy do you have any kind of status update as far as how that look towards you guys Rental Tools business?  It really doesn’t have much impact the guys haven’t come back to me and given any indication other than the comment in West Virginia the guys were commenting at one point in time about the rain and then it was just a couple hours later they were woken up there is snow on the ground and so on.
All right well I appreciate your help there.
You guys have a good one today.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) one moment.
And I’m not showing any further questions at this time.
You may continue.
Thank you Marissa and thank you all who have joined us for this call.
We appreciate your time and we’ll look forward to talking with you as the quarter proceeds in front of us.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.