Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today May 1 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Camille and good morning to those of you listening to us today.
Thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 first quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; and Philip Schlom Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company’s website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 first quarter results.
Before we review our operational performance and financial results I’d like to update you on our CFO search.
The search is nearly complete.
We have met with several outstanding individuals and are finalizing our discussions.
As a result I expect to have a person in place before the end of May.
I look forward to announcing our selection.
Previously I have outlined four key management objectives that we believe will produce superior financial performance for Parker and value for our shareholders.
These objectives are one delivering reliable financial and operational results; two improving profitability; three strengthening our strategic position; and four developing pads for future growth.
I believe that the results of the first quarter and actions we have taken recently show that we are hard at work on these objectives and that we are making progress.
Let me share with you just a few examples.
We have now completed the launch of two state-of-the-art Arctic class drilling rigs currently deployed on the Alaskan North Slope under five-year contracts with options to extend for another five years.
They are operational and performing well.
The second quarter will be the first period for both rigs to enjoy a full quarter of activity gross margin and cash flow and I am very pleased with the team effort to get these rigs operational.
In mid-February we began working on a new O&amp;M contract for three drilling platforms Offshore California.
The second quarter will also be the first full period of operation for this contract.
Results for both the Arctic class rigs in Alaska and the O&amp;M contract in California will be reported in our U.S drilling segment.
We are making progress redeploying our international rig fleet to focus on regions with promising industry growth that will lead to a better utilization increased operating scale and ultimately a better return on investment.
Our Latin America region exemplifies the direction we want to go in any region we decide to deploy Parker rigs.
During the quarter we continued the process of mobilizing two rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan where they will begin contracts in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
This reduces our involvement in Kazakhstan where we have experienced low utilization for sometime.
The cluster of rigs we will have in the Caspian-Kurdistan area and the corresponding contracts we have secured will form the basis of a region intended to deliver scale and focus in a market with promising industry growth.
This past quarter we also completed moving our two rigs from Algeria to Tunisia while we evaluate alternatives for them.
Though this relocation resulted in $1.7 million of added cost in the first quarter we are avoiding possible tax assessments had they remained idle in Algeria.
And they are now better positioned for work elsewhere.
Among the possible of homes for these rigs is the Middle East Caspian region either in Kurdistan joining the two rigs now being mobilized or near by or we can move them to Latin America to grow our presence in that region.
We are working through these alternatives and expect to have a designated home for these rigs in the not too distant future.
We have recently put Rig 270 under contract.
This is the rig that has been idle for quite sometime.
It will go to work on Sakhalin Island joining our three O&amp;M contracts the Yastreb land rig Orlan platform and the Berkut platform.
Given our existing presence and familiarity with this market we are confident we can efficiently deploy and operate this rig to generate an accretive return for the company.
Rig 270 is currently being mobilized and should begin operations around mid-year of this year.
We are committed to improving the utilization of our international assets.
We will no longer take on several disperse markets with the 1D 2D approach.
It is noted earlier that steps we have taken to reposition these assets may result in some bumpiness in our quarterly results.
But these steps are necessary to ensure we can capture opportunities that will be accretive to our operating margins and our return on capital.
Most recently we completed the acquisition of International Tubular Services Limited and certain affiliates or ITS.
There are approximately $3 million of due diligence costs in our first quarter results related to this transaction.
We closed in April and are really delighted to have this business.
It accelerates the international expansion of our rental tools business.
It provides immediate growth both in revenues and earnings and is expected to produce solid financial results for our shareholders.
Interested parties can find the additional information about ITS on our website including the transactional announcement a replay of our conference call reviewing the transaction and a related PowerPoint presentation covering the transaction.
So I hope that delivering two new fully operational AADU rigs in Alaska securing a new O&amp;M contract for the three platforms in California ceasing operations in Algeria where we did not foresee a profitable future negotiating the contract for a previously idle rig in 270 and acquiring a great international rental tools business are clear signs we are actively working to achieve our four corporate objectives and making good progress.
Now let me spend a minute or two on the business units before turning some time over to Philip to cover the financial results.
Rental tools faced the challenging U.S.
land drilling market during the past several quarters.
Price discounting and declining utilization are outcomes of slowing demand and excess equipment.
However our U.S.
rentals management team with confidence in our customer driven marketing strategy continues to be selective in their use of discounts and service offerings and continues to actively rebalance their inventory of rental tools.
Though segment gross margin came down last quarter compared with the prior quarter they remained well ahead of previous trough we experienced in 2009 at the bottom of the last cycle.
Pricing continued to decline early in the quarter but the pace of decline was significantly less than we experienced from the Q3 to Q4 walk of last year.
We believe that prices are near to the bottom and with some slight increase in rig activity we will begin reversing this trend of price decline.
Our tubular goods utilization rate has improved to an index of 85 in the first quarter of 2013 from a number of 80 an index number of 80 in the 2012 fourth quarter.
And the April utilization index is at 90 the highest level it has been since the low point last November.
As utilization continues to improve and as price discounting eases we expect our U.S.
rental tools business will strengthen and profitability will expand.
In the meantime our rental tools business in the offshore drilling market continued to grow servicing drilling programs on the shales and in deepwater with drill pipe surface BOPs landing strings and related products.
We made capital investments in the first quarter to support this growth and expect to make further investments in 2013.
Let me spend some time on the barge business.
The inland barge drilling market ended the quarter with increased activity.
During the period of slowness that started late in the fourth quarter we drydocked three of our drilling barges for planned inspections repairs and upgrades that otherwise would have taken these same barges out of service later this year.
Some of this drydock activity continued well into the first quarter.
However by the beginning of March we had all 11 of our workable barges back in the water and under contract.
I am pleased that our average day rate again improved sequentially.
Our first quarter average day rate was $33 800 a day the highest quarterly average day rate we have ever reported since 2008.
Nonetheless this is still below the historic high achieved in 2007 of $49 500 for comparable rigs an indication that we still have room for further increases.
The market remained healthy.
Today we continue to have all 11 of our marketable barges working in our spot average day rate is north of $36 000 a day with three of these rigs earning over $40 000 per day.
On the international front I have covered a lot of the strategic movement underway in our drilling segment but it’s also worth noting some other things that are going on.
Our rig fleet utilization picked up in the first quarter with three more rigs working at the end of March than at the end of the prior quarter.
Our operating results improved during the quarter but not as much as they could have due to more mobilization and downtime in our Latin America operations compared with the prior quarter.
Before I turn this over to Philip Schlom for some financial review I wish to note that we did reach a final settlement with the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission regarding their investigations of possible violations of U.S.
law.
The settlement was finalized consistent with our previous announcement.
We are pleased to have reached this agreement and will continue to maintain a vigorous compliance program.
Now Philip our Chief Accounting Officer will review our financial performance.
Philip? Thanks Gary.
Today for the 2013 first quarter we reported revenues of $167.2 million segment gross margins of $50.1 million adjusted EBITDA of $37.2 million and net income of $0.6 million.
Net income included non-routine expenses of $3.5 million.
The expenditures during the quarter were primarily related to those associated with the acquisition of ITS and final settlements with the Department of Justice and SEC.
Excluding non-routine items net income was $3.9 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $57.1 million and gross margin of $32.2 million.
Compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues rose 3% gross margin declined 2% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 56.4%.
These results reflect an increase in equipment utilization and further price softness.
In the first quarter we continue to invest in our business.
We received $12.2 million of new Rental Tools inventory with much of it destined for the growing offshore market.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $29.9 million and gross margin of $12.4 million.
Compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues rose 2% gross margin declined 6% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 41.6%.
Rig fleet utilizations improved in 79% from the fourth quarter’s equivalent of 77%.
As Gary noted the average day rate rose to $33 800.
The gross margin benefits of higher utilization and increased average day rate were unfortunately offset by an uptick in this quarter’s workers’ compensation reserves related to two claims while the 2012 fourth quarter reserves had been reduced on favorable past claim experience.
Without this adjustment margins would have comparable.
The U.S.
Drilling segment recorded first quarter revenues of $11.6 million and gross margins of $0.3 million.
For the 2013 first quarter there was a mismatch between revenues and expenses for one of the two Alaska rigs.
Rig 272 was undergoing commissioning until late in February at which time it began operating and earning revenues.
During the first six weeks for the quarter we had incurred expenses without the benefit of associated revenues.
In addition our new O&amp;M contract in California commenced operations in mid-February and we should see a full quarter of revenues and earnings during the second quarter and beyond.
In our international drilling – excuse me our International Drilling segment reported first quarter revenues of $64.7 million and gross margin of $4.8 million compared to the 2012 fourth quarter segment revenue declined 4%.
Gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 7.4%.
The segment benefited from higher utilization as we had more rigs working during the first quarter compared with the prior quarter.
The increased downtime and mobilization days in the Latin America region will more than offset the impact of higher utilization.
In addition revenues from international O&amp;M contracts rose primarily due to an increase in the reimbursement revenues during the period.
The quarter-to-quarter earnings comparison reflects the inclusion in the prior period of $4.7 million of expenses related to rig redeployment compared with $1.7 million of related expenses in this quarter.
In the Latin America region our 10 fleet operated at 72% average utilization up from 60% in the prior quarter.
Two previously idle rigs returned to work in Columbia while one other came off contract.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region our 14 rig fleet operated at 24% average utilization compared to 29% in the prior quarter.
The decrease in utilization reflects the net impact of two rigs having completed their contract work during the fourth quarter one in Algeria the other in Indonesia.
Partially offset by the initiation of work of one rig in Kazakhstan.
Our Technical Services segment revenues were $3.9 million for the 2013 first quarter and gross margin was $0.4 million compared with the 2012 fourth quarter revenues and gross margin increased primarily due to contributions from the customer funded project.
Speaking about other financial items general and administrative expense incurred in the first quarter reflects costs associated with settlements with the Department of Justice and Security and Exchange Commission as well as acquisition of ITS both of which were completed in April.
Excluding these event-related expenditures adjusted G&amp;A expense for 2013 first quarter was $9.4 compared with $8.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increased G&amp;A of $1.1 million was primarily attributable to ongoing expenditures associated with our new Oracle-based enterprise resource planning system.
Interest expense for the quarter was $10 million $1.6 million higher when compared with the 2012 fourth quarter.
The increase in interest expense was primarily related to the completion of construction of the two Alaska based rigs.
One was completed during the fourth quarter the other at the beginning of the first quarter.
As each rig was completed the associated interest cost that was previously being capitalized began being expensed.
For the first quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $1.5 million.
This included the favorable impact related to the settlements with the DOJ and SEC and a benefit from reduced taxes on prior year’s returns.
Our tax rate was also impacted by the ITS acquisition related expenses that were not currently deductible for income tax purposes.
We expect our 2013 ongoing tax rate to be about 40%.
First quarter capital expenditures were $30.1 million and included rental tool expenditures of $12.2 million and ERP system expenditure of $4.5 million.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $83.7 million compared with $87.9 million at the end of 2012.
At the end of March we had $476.4 million of debt outstanding for a net debt position of $392.8 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 39.8%.
Before turning to the outlook let me summarize some of the current or upcoming events that will impact our near term financial performance and comparisons.
We completed the acquisition of ITS in April.
Our 2013 first quarter results included $3 million of related transaction expenses.
We expect additional transaction expenses of between $3 million and $5 million in the second quarter.
In addition we expect that second quarter will include some portion of the estimated $2 million to $5 million for 2013 compliance related expenses resulting from the acquisition.
We are in the process of implementing our new Oracle-based enterprise resource planning system as we proceed with new employment and implementation we expect to have higher G&amp;A expense this year related to conversion and personnel training.
The added expense is expected to be approximately $2 million per quarter.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I will turn this back over to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take some questions.
Gary?  Thanks Philip.
I feel good about the direction we are headed and the progress we are making.
As I have noted before there maybe some bumpiness in our results as we implement some of the necessary changes in our international rig operations.
But yeah rest assured we will work through those as they are necessary to have a better business and be positioned for continual work and improved profit potential of these large capital intensive assets.
Turning to our outlook based on current activity in the U.S.
land drilling market and expectations for gradual activity increase through the reminder of the year I expect competitive conditions to improve for our U.S.
Rental Tools business.
Meanwhile continued growth in the U.S.
offshore market will also lead to increased opportunities for this business unit adding revenues with solid profitability.
We also expect continued activity in the U.S.
inland water barge drilling market that will allow us to maintain high utilization and continue growing day rates as we have demonstrated over the last several quarters.
Our U.S.
drilling operations comprised of our two Alaska rigs in the California O&amp;M project are operated under long-term contracts with no significant changes anticipated other than being fully active throughout the remainder of the year.
The changes underway in our international drilling segment are expected to improve our strategic position and deliver better returns.
These will take time to be realized but I believe we made a good start.
I expect better rig fleet utilization later this year resulting from the recently awarded contracts.
Our technical services business continues to be involved in new and interesting projects and I believe they will open up some opportunities in the not too distant future.
And the acquisition of ITS is expected to be a profitable addition and bring further opportunities to enhance our now truly international Rental Tools business.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of John Keller with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Gary I just wanted to ask you kind of on the margin progression or profiling the international drilling business obviously a lot of moving parts there as you kind of repositioned assets but as we sort of look at that business over the course.
How do you see margins progressing? I mean are we going to continue to be stuck in kind of a single-digit range here for the next quarter or two until we get things positioned or maybe help us understand how that progression is and good we see that ultimately back up in the mid-20s where it was running I guess kind of historically? Well I certainly would like to get it up in the mid-20s without a doubt John.
I think that over the next two or three quarters it’s going to remain a challenge for us again as we get some of these rigs positioned but I feel that these are the steps we need to make to give us the chance or the prospect of giving backup into the 20s – mid-20s to give us a good return as an organization.
I think that you will see some substantial progress from where we are today to the time you get to the end of this year.
You will be able to see some notable changes improvements in that market.
Okay fair enough.
And then switching to the U.S.
Rental Tool market I don’t want to pin you down here but given your commentary and kind of what you see as the year unfolds I mean would you be willing to say that Q1 would mark a bottom in terms of margins in that business? Yes that’s always would you mean you don’t want to put me on the spot.
Well I don’t want to pin you down on a number? I think that - I think it’s got to be ready close to the bottom.
I feel like personally that it probably is right there and that will see some improvement going forward but we needed help from the rig activity side.
And without a doubt if we continue to see some positive movement on rig activity and it doesn’t have to be too significant but as soon as it does that will help firm up the position on the pricing side.
So we won’t see any further degradation there and we should then see growth throughout the reminder of the year.
Okay perfect.
That will do for me guys.
If I have anymore I’ll hop back in queue.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Trey.
So looking at the U.S.
activity levels and a modest pick up there when we think about that is there a certain region that meshes well with your rental tools division as far as where you would hope the rigs would pickup first and they would lead to the biggest impact.
Well it’s a good question I think that it actually is great that we have such a strong geographic presence in all of the regions so that we can take advantage of the activity wherever it picks up and activity growth in any of them Trey will be positive for us.
It’s nice that we have the ability to reposition equipment and people to take advantage of those opportunities.
I think as an organization we’ve already demonstrated an ability to do that we’ll certainly do that going forward but I don’t necessarily need to pick a favorite I would like any of them to grow.
Great okay switching gears a little bit internationally the Rig 270 is that a barge rig or a land rig? It’s a land rig that actually it’s a brand new rig that we’ve had sitting in our New Iberia facility for quite sometime now it was originally destined for a market that we didn’t go into.
And it’s well suited for the application that it’s going to and so we’re quite excited to get that under contract.
It’s one you haven’t seen on our rig charts in the past.
And then now we’re going to put it on there obviously under contract and I am excited to get it there.
Great and has it already started drilling or is it to start drilling in the second quarter? It should start mid year sometime it’s actually on a boat this week I believe maybe even today sometime this week it’s on a boat to head over there from Houston.
Okay.
And then just one final question looking at the incremental G&amp;A cost of $2 million is that relative to the first quarter? No.
Relative to prior year.
So… We’ve taken part of the ERP system live and the accounting rules to have us capitalizing expensing portion of that and that will be ongoing expenses as we continue to train and implement the remaining modules throughout 2013 and early 2014.
So are you saying that like I should look at last year’s G&amp;A for the full year and add $8 million to it and that’s a pretty good comp? I think at this point that that is about – that is the easiest analysis you can do yes.
Okay great.
Well I’m all for easy.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Daniel.
Gary in terms of understanding that international rig margin progression could you maybe explain a little bit more the level or the extent of the downtime you experienced in Latin America in the first quarter.
And then maybe the second question would be at this time do you anticipate any unrecoverable cost in international drilling in Q2 do you have anymore rig move expense coming at you? Well the – I mean if you take the Latin America issue first.
We had a couple of units that had some top drive issues and it took us little longer to get those repaired than what we anticipated.
And that’s the issue that’s associated with the downtime that we referenced in our comments earlier.
We clearly don’t expect that to repeat again in Q2 as a go forward so we should be beyond that and those margins should improved.
The extraordinary expenses associated with some of these rig moves.
The rigs that we have in Tunisia dependent on what type of contract those go under and whatever it is we decided to move them it can have an affect is to whether it’s a capitalized expense and associated with the contracts or whether it’s a period expense.
Those types of things are what’s out there that’s what I referred to when I talked about bumpiness is that it just depends on what you’re going to be able to capitalize of those rigs move expenses or whether you need to expense so I mean it’s hard to know until I actually get contract form to tell you what that’s going to be.
Okay that’s helpful.
One other one just to stay on the cost side then pretty apparent we have the utilization statistics for the AADU in the first quarter but with the second one starting up and I guess simple question that the operating cost in Q1 ‘13 is that a good run rate for U.S.
drilling I guess we are also incorporating California O&amp;M in that line item but just trying to figure out where that op cost line is going to settle out? Well what we have said for a while now we still feel comfortable is that we anticipate a 20% to 25% EBITDA margin from those two AADU units.
And when they are fully operating and you are talking about $50 million a year revenue stream so you can back into your cost I think using that 20% to 25% EBITDA margin.
If you look at just our absolute numbers that we are reporting because you do have the O&amp;M contracts and there would be a little difficult for you to decipher the difference between the two.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
And maybe just the last one I don’t know if this was it what was capitalized interest in the first quarter in Q1 ‘13? Yeah it would have been a very small number.
Yeah I think it was about $1 million I shouldn’t say I think it was roughly $1.5 million of capitalized interest with the rigs having been capitalized in the late fourth quarter and the first quarter that was the significant financing interest that we had in Q4 and Q1 of this year.
Okay.
So in Q1 ‘13 you were still capitalizing $1.5 million and presumably we won’t see capitalized interest in 2Q ‘13 right? There will be small capitalized interest related to our ongoing ERP implementation.
So there will be some continuing capitalized interest but it will be reduced from what you have seen in past.
Fair enough.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bajenski.
Investor Relations</strong>  Thank you all for joining our call.
This ends it for us.
We appreciate your time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement or this conference call please contact me.
Other than that have a good day and good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling first quarter 2013 conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT conferencing.