Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today's presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Thursday August 1st 2013.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 second quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; Chris Weber Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance; we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities Laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary?  Thank you Rich.
Welcome to our conference call.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 second quarter results.
Before we review our operational performance and financial results I have the pleasure of introducing Chris Weber who recently joined us as our CFO.
Chris has tremendous leadership experience in the drilling contractor business including valuable integration M&amp;A and strategy development experience.
His first day at Parker had been very active.
He is already fully engaged in our operational reporting planning and business strategy processes and has just come off a road trip for our successful notes offering.
He has been out on several meetings with investors and I'm looking forward to having more of you meeting him in the future.
I believe once you do you'll be as excited as I'm to have him on our team.
Speaking of the team with all the many activities we've been engaged in there has been a tremendous response from employees throughout Parker the acquisition of ITS our ERP implementation.
The many international rig moves and other projects would not be as successful as they have been without their dedication including long hours of work and lots of travel.
I just thank them for their involvement and want to acknowledge that without their efforts we would not have come as far as we have in executing these specific projects and also in building momentum behind our key business objectives which are to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability the strength of our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
Let me share with you some of the more significant events and the success we're having.
In April we completed the acquisition of International Tubular Services Limited or ITS and International Rental Tools and Well Services business which had 22 locations around the globe serving the most of the large and growing international drilling markets such as the Middle East Latin America the UK and Europe and Southeast Asia.
As soon as the deal closed we began in executing an integration plan developed while we were in negotiations.
Prior to closing because of the significant similarity and products customers and suppliers we identified $5 million in potential synergies as a result of the involvement throughout the Parker organization.
We've already made good progress toward achieving that number.
Supply chain is one area in which we see great opportunities for savings.
For example shortly after the acquisition ITS made a purchase of drill pipe for its rental inventory.
Buying as part of the larger Parker organization ITS was able to acquire that pipe 2000 joints of pipe for $725 000 less than the amount quoted for the same order just prior to the acquisition.
That was a 15% of savings on one order.
While synergies and integration benefits will be contributors to the overall performance of ITS by far the more important contribution will come from our ability to provide capital to an organization that has been unable to fund its growth opportunities.
While the example I've cited shows how we can reduce procurement cost one of ITS's past issues with the lack of funds to buy additional equipment.
As a result even with orders in hand they had to either forego business or subrent equipment at basically no margins.
We expect to invest approximately $20 million this year and as much as $30 million next year in capital at ITS to reduce the level of sub rentals and build our product base allowing us to expand our operating margins and grow this business.
As this capital is put to work this year and next it should contribute to ongoing improvements in our operating results.
While ITS is well-positioned in the growing international drilling market our U.S.
rental tools business is operating in a more challenging environment.
Slowed and no growth in the U.S.
drilling activity over the last several quarters has led to price discounting and declining utilization across the industries.
Our U.S.
rental tools management team with confidence in their customer-driven marketing strategy continues to be selective in the use of discounts and service offering and continues to actively rebalance inventory.
As a result of possible pricing actions and continued growth of the Gulf of Mexico business our U.S.
rental tools business increased their revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of total revenues this past quarter.
Our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling business had another stellar quarter with higher utilization and average day rate.
We achieved all utilization of our marketed fleet of 11 barge rigs and our average day rate rose by 9%.
We believe the market demand will remain strong and may get even better.
As a result earlier this week our Board authorized an investment plan to complete Barge Rig 55B and having in service sometime in the second quarter of 2014.
In the meantime we are approaching the most active part of storm season for the Gulf of Mexico and expect as typically happens that some operators would chose not to drill during this period.
If operators cut back their activity (technical difficulty) utilization and average day rates may be impacted temporarily.
However we continue to have all the 11 of our marketable rigs working today.
If we incurred gaps in the utilization during this storm season we'll use that pause in activity to do maintenance and upgrade work on idle rigs.
Two or three barges are likely to be brought in at some point during this quarter or during this period.
The rig maintenance and upgrade work we did last year and expect we will be doing this year showcases our commitment to be an innovative reliable and efficient rig provider.
This and the addition of Rig 55B will further strengthen our position as having the most capable fleet of barge drilling rigs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Our fleet will represent about half of the industry's number of rigs in service and gives us an unmatched operating scale.
We will have a range of drilling depth capabilities up to 30 000 feet giving us unmatched flexibility in selecting the right rig for a given application.
With the recent refurbishment work that will have been done we should be able to enjoy a long creative operation with few interruptions for major maintenance.
Our U.S.
drilling segment recorded its first full period of operation in the second quarter with results in line with what we expect from this business the two arctic-class drilling rigs on the Alaska North Slope are building a solid performance record demonstrating the kind of value that our technical capabilities and operating experience can bring to the tough conditions of drilling in an Arctic environment.
There has been a lot of activity in our international drilling operation leading up to and during this past quarter.
Underneath the higher utilization and the increased margins we reported for the quarter there is quite a bit of change.
In Kazakhstan Rig 257 our Caspian Sea Barge is now under contract.
In finalizing the contract we also received $6.1 million of revenues for having held the rig in standby since September of last year.
Those standby revenues are included in the segment's second quarter results.
In the second quarter our two rigs Kazakhstan arrived in the Kurdistan region of Iraq and are now going through rig-up activities.
We remain on schedule for a third quarter start-up for one of these rigs and a fourth quarter start-up for the other.
Rig 270 is then contracted to work on Sakhalin Island in Russia.
The rig is arrived on the Island and is in the process of rigging up.
It is expected to start drilling in late August or early September.
Along with the newly contracted work we would think we did have one rig come up on contract during the quarter in Colombia.
We are currently in negotiations over a potential contract for that rig.
That covers the key operations events that have occurred recently.
Chris will provide more detail on the impacts of many of these in his financial review.
However before turning it over to him a few comments on our recent notes offering are in order.
This past Tuesday we closed on a $225 million issue at 7.5% senior unsecured notes.
The primary purpose of the notes was to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our acquisition of ITS in April.
We also used the proceeds to repay our outstanding term loan of $45 million.
The timing and circumstances of the ITS acquisition provided us an exceptional opportunity to make a strategic addition at great value.
As a follow-up to the acquisition the notes issuance gives us long-term financing to 2020 at a good rate and spreads out the maturities of our debt structure.
While these actions have increased our debt-to-cap ratio I remain committed to strengthening our balance sheet through a lower debt-to-capital ratio over time.
This is not because I think we are not capable of handling this level of debt rather it is because at lower debt levels we'll have the financial flexibility to grow our business as we develop strategically and financially attractive options.
In summary I believe the results of the second quarter and the actions we've taken recently show we are at hard at work on the key objectives that we set out for our employees and to our investors just a short while ago to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability to strengthen our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
We're making great progress on all of these.
Now Chris will review our financial performance.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
First let me start by saying how excited I'm to be here.
When I met with Gary Bobby and the Board during the hiring process I took particular note of their collective commitment to provide greater financial discipline in order to raise the performance levels of our operations and to grow the company.
The 10 weeks I've been at Parker I've been impressed with the solid foundation we have in the financial area and believe we can employ that to not only provide discipline to our operations and investments but also the unit to help identify opportunities to improve expand and grow.
Turning now to the results of the second quarter.
Today we reported revenues of $226 million adjusted EBITDA of $62.5 million and net income of $10 million.
Included in the quarter's result is $8.9 million pretax or $7.3 million after tax of ITS acquisition related expenses.
Adjusting for these¸ net income was $17.3 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $82 million and gross margin of $38.3 million.
In the 2013 second quarter we have a contribution from ITS of $24.2 million in revenue and $5.2 million in gross margin.
Despite all the acquisition disruptions the operations turned in solid results for the period.
ITS's operating margins continue to reflect a high amount of subrentals which we expect to decline as we began to deploy capital.
Including ITS our U.S.
rental tools business achieved increases in revenues and gross margins that led to an increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenues to 57.3% for the second quarter compared with $56.4% in the first quarter.
These results for our U.S.
rental tools operations reflect the net impact of many individual decisions about price disciplines and market positions.
The U.S.
rental tools management team is well experienced with these market conditions and we expect they will continue to make sound vision going forward.
The U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $38.3 million and gross margin of $20 million.
Compared with the 2013 first quarter revenues rose 28% gross margin increased 61% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues expanded to 52.2% from 41.6%.
Rig fleet utilization for the quarter was 100% up from the first quarter 79% and our average day rate rose to 36 900 a day a 9% increase from the first quarter.
The business was quite successful in converting growing revenues and to increase profitability.
The U.S.
drilling segment second quarter revenues were $17.9 million gross margin was $3.6 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 20.3%.
The 2013 second quarter was the first full quarter of activity for our two Alaska rigs as well as our O&amp;M contract offshore California.
We are seeing good results from these operations and expect this to continue as our Arctic class drilling rigs gain more operating experience.
Our International Drilling segment reported second quarter revenues of $83.2 million and gross margin of $20.3 million or 24.4% of revenues.
Compared with the 2013 first quarter segment revenue decreased 29% and gross margin increased from $4.8 million or 7.4% of revenues.
Second quarter results includes $6.1 million of revenues received for holding our Caspian Sea barge Rig 257 on standby since September of last year while we negotiated this current contract.
Excluding the standby revenues segment revenues increased by 19% to $77.1 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues expanded to 18.4% from the prior quarter's 7.4%.
In the Latin America region our 10 rig fleet operated at 73% average utilization.
During the quarter one rig came off contract and we are currently in negotiation on a potential new contract for it to go to work in the region.
This past quarter the region benefited from an increase in operating days and reduced downtime compared with the prior quarter.
In the Eastern Hemisphere region we operated at 40% average utilization compared with 24% in the prior quarter.
We brought Rig 270 into the region with a contract to work on Sakhalin Island and benefited from our success in contracting Rig 257 and the arrival in Kurdistan of the two rigs mobilizing from Kazakhstan.
That covers the operating segment.
Regarding other financial items G&amp;A expense in the second quarter included $8.9 million pretax of costs associated with the acquisition of ITS both were pre-acquisition due diligence costs and post-acquisitions integration and compliance costs.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2013 second quarter was $11 million.
We had interest income of $2.2 million in the second quarter resulting from interest associated with a recent U.S.
income tax refund related to prior year's tax returns.
For the second quarter we reported an income tax provision of $12 million or 54% of pretax income.
Our second quarter tax provision is higher than expected primarily due to the impact of nondeductible ITS transaction costs incurred prior to the acquisition.
We expect our full year tax rate to be in the mid 40s.
Our cash balance at quarter end was $69.6 million compared with $87.9 million at the end of 2013.
At the end of June we had $599 million of debt outstanding or a net debt position of $529.5 million.
Our net debt to net capitalization ratio at quarter end was 46.5%.
Since quarter end we completed a note issuance comprised of $225 million of senior unsecured notes at 7.5%.
The purpose of the note was to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our acquisition of ITS in April.
In addition we used the proceed to repay our outstanding $45 million term loan.
As part of the transaction we also amended our credit agreement which allow us to reborrow the $45 million term loan adjusted for previously scheduled amortization through April 2014.
This positions us subject to market conditions to potentially use the excess funds raised in the notes offering the call a portion of our 9.125% notes when they first become callable in April of next year while reducing our cost of negative carry.
Before turning to outlook let me summarize some of the current and upcoming events that may impact our near term financial performance and comparison.
We completed the acquisition of ITS in April.
Our 2013 second quarter results included $8.9 million of transaction compliance and integration related expenses before any potential offset from the moneys escrow for some of those expenses in the acquisition agreement.
We expect additional ITS integration and compliance related expenses about to $4 million over the remainder of the year before any escrow recovery.
Our note issuance will result in some one-time expenses in the third quarter.
In addition to the deal related expenses which will be amortized over the license of note there will be debt extinguishment cost of approximately $5 million associated with the early retirement of the ITS acquisition term loan.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook and then we will take questions.
Thanks Chris and welcome aboard.
Now let's spend a minute on our outlook.
I'm really excited about the progress we're making and the momentum we're gaining in our businesses.
As I've noted before there may be some bumpiness in our results as we implement some of the necessary changes in our international rig operations and we're going to have some one-time costs associated with the ITS acquisition our notes issuance and recent refinancing.
Nevertheless we're on a good path forward having operations that will be competitively stronger with better profit potential with the Company in sound financial condition.
Turning to our outlook.
Based on the current activity and recent market trends we expect our rental tools business to benefit from rising demand in international markets and growing activity in the Gulf of Mexico while soft demand in the U.S.
land market will impact competitive conditions affecting our U.S.
rental tools business.
We expect the current pace of activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market to moderate temporarily influenced by operators' typical caution during the storm season but we anticipate no long-term reduction and the robust demand in this market.
Our two Arctic class drilling rigs located on the North Slope of Alaska and one O&amp;M contract for offshore platform operations located in California are projected to generate reliable cash flow during the terms of their multiyear contracts.
Growth in worldwide E&amp;P spending particularly in many of the countries in which we operate should provide good conditions favorable to our efforts to put more of our rigs to work in growing regions with opportunities to gain operating scale.
We are currently mobilizing some rigs for work that will begin in the second half of this year.
Based on recent tender activity further rig deployment opportunities may arise later this year.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Keller with Stephens Inc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Just wanted to touch on the barge business for a second.
So it sounds like you're moving forward with the barge reactivation here on 55B what's the cost of that and I think you and refreshing on the timing I missed that? We gave estimates at the beginning of the year that we felt like our CapEx spend in 2013 was going to be in the $170 million.
John even as the market has slowed down a little bit with the addition of 55B we still feel like total company will stay within as total $170 million spend and as far as when the rig will be active we’re anticipating that sometime in Q2 of 2014 probably earlier rather than later.
Inc.</strong> And I guess given sort of the limited the sort of the fixed nature of that market and do you anticipate any disruption to the day rate structure that we've kind of positively witnessed over really the last year and a half? We don't.
We feel like the trends of improving day rates are actually going to continue and if you look at that market there was 22 to 24 barges that are working on that market at any point in time.
Right now I think today we probably got 21 or 22 of those barges actually on contract.
So the overall utilization in that market remains quite strong and we feel confident that with our position and these new barges we're bringing into service that our day rate improvement will continue and our utilization will also remain very high.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
And historically you guys have kind of given sort of a spot fleet average in terms of rate where things are currently.
Are you in a position to do that right now to kind of give us where we're today relative to may be the Q2 average? We're pretty close to right on top of the Q2 average.
There is not much difference in the numbers we see today relative to what we reported for Q2.
Inc.</strong> And then may be just turning to the outlook on a couple of used rigs that are idle internationally first and foremost in Colombia.
When do you think you could see some movement on the contracting for the rig that just recently rolled off? Well we actually have effectively a contract for that rig or an opportunity to put it to work.
We reached agreement with a customer where there are some challenges in terms of their environmental permitting there in Colombia.
So it's a little bit of a function of how that progresses.
Of course the longer it's delayed the more other issues can come into play.
We're not just relying though on that opportunity we'll continue to look for some other opportunities we might find elsewhere.
I might say if you look at our overall rig I'm just very very pleased with the progress we've made in getting contract for our rigs.
And if you just walk around the globe for just a second in the Eastern Hemisphere we got 13 rigs today and of those 13 rigs we got 10 of them that are under contract.
Latin America we have nine we have seven of those nine under contract 271 being one that we don't.
The three that we don't have under contract in Eastern Hemisphere we're actually in some pretty active discussion about possibly putting those under contract.
And then of course the barges we have all the 11 of them still under -- fully utilized today and then the two rigs up on the slope are utilized today.
So I feel really good about the utilization we got right now.
Inc.</strong> And then I guess just one more as you demoed I think two of the rigs from Algeria to Tunisia and are working toward contracts in those.
Any update there and may be the potential market destinations for those? Well those are two of the three that are in the Eastern Hemisphere that remain idle today and we are in active discussions with multiple customers about the potential deployment of those.
And we've been saying for quite some time that our intention is to not put them in countries where they will be isolated that's part of the reason we pull them out of Algeria is with the onesy and twosy thing that I've referenced in the past.
And so the discussions that we're having would actually facilitate the scale discussion that we've been talking about in the past.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
A question on the international performance in Q2.
First of all I might have missed it but directionally was O&amp;M favorable in terms of its contribution in gross margin may be relative to where it was in the first quarter.
And then perhaps more prospectively it doesn't sound like as we sit here right now that that there are any one-time style mobilization expenses that would burden the Q3 outlook or for that matter the Q4 outlook is that fair? Yeah on the O&amp;M we did see an increase in contribution from our O&amp;M business particularly on Sakhalin Island in our international drilling segment regarding any sort of rig moves cost in Q3 nothing new that is not in the works now unless we -- something happens on the two rig in Tunisia but we would be unlikely to actually start moving anything in Q3.
And then on ITS the fact that I was curious the CapEx you're putting in what portion of that goes to the subrental market versus I guess growth CapEx.
In other words what percent of that directly supplants external rent that ITS is currently paying for? Well it's Gary again.
Good question I think that if you look at it we've got probably in that business segment in the mid to high teens percentage of our overall business is been serviced by subrentals in the past.
And so clearly there is some real opportunity for us to reduce those.
As far as the split between how much of its applied to that and how much of its applied to growth CapEx we're letting the local operations drive that decision and we're so early in this that I can't give you some specific numbers.
In some cases it actually may be prudent to continue in a subrental mode for a while because they are having more favorable opportunity to deploy that capital.
So we're not dictating that too and with everything else going on we've not tried to be overly hawkish on them in terms on watching how they're allocating that just right now.
And then may be a last one just on initial impressions of ITS look like a kind of low 20% margin which is sort of exactly in line with where you had earlier communicated Gary.
But I guess it doesn't sound like there was anything within the segment level result that would on the cost side go away or be considered one-time in nature and then how do we think about the ability to begin pushing that margin what type of timeline do you often see before that margin can may be make some progression? Well I think that it's we remain very confident that the opportunities are there Daniel.
It's going to take some time for us to roll some of that through.
I gave you a example in my comments about the procurement savings that we had on the string of pipe we saved them 15% using our procurement contract versus what they had been able to purchase the same similar type work or before but of course that's a depreciated item.
So it gets capitalized and it's over some period of time as the depreciation comes off that you would be able to see the benefit of it in the absolute period numbers that we report.
So it is going to take a while for us to work that up I will say though that there is some of the savings that we think will happen near term.
But I wouldn't see it as an immediate change in their cost structure other than where we do apply capital through subrentals.
And then may be just cram one last one I'm going back to an earlier question I had.
Chris the O&amp;M -- will the O&amp;M activity in Sakhalin remain elevated in Q3 or was that kind of encapsulated in Q2? Yeah I think Daniel our Q3 performance would be in line with Q2 on the O&amp;M side.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bajenski for his closing remarks.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you all for joining us.
This ends our call.
We appreciate your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about the material that we covered in our earnings announcement or on this conference call please reach out and contact me.
Thank you for your day and have a good one.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.