Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
During today's presentation all parties will be in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Wednesday November 6 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Bobby Parker Executive Chairman; Gary Rich President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we have referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and non-routine items.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask that you note of discussion of our forward looking statements as we make our comments today.
And our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Earlier this week we announced the Bobby Parker is retiring.
We all knew Bobby was going to retire some time but the timing was his to choose and the time he has chosen is now.
If you are wondering what Bobby thinks about all is well here he is tell us about it.
Bobby?  Thanks Gary.
Here is how I would I express the variety of feelings I have now.
To those are listening it has been an honor serving over the years as CEO and Chairman and as a representative to our industry.
It has been a great experience.
We have been through a lot together.
I value the interest and interaction that we have had together and that has contributed to the path we have followed.
It is time to move along.
I do this with great confidence in the leadership at Parker today.
I trust Gary and his team with the Parker name and reputation.
I am very excited by the strategic plan and the execution of that plan.
I will be spending more personal time with my wife Risa and our cat George will be at Kerrville ranch and in Austin where I will spend more time working with the great University of Texas.
Thanks for all your support.
I certainly hope to see many of you in the future.
Now back to you Gary.
Bobby I thank you for your stewardship at Parker and for all your years of dedicated service to the employees the customers and the shareholders of this great company.
I appreciate the great expectations you have for us the leadership team to follow behind.
And we look forward to contributing to the Parker legacy that you have established.
We are committed to that.
And we do appreciate your service.
Thank you.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 third quarter results.
Chris Weber will give you all the financial details in a moment.
He has a good report to deliver both for our operating results and business trends.
As you review these I believe you will see we made good progress on the key objectives we set for ourselves just about a year ago.
Those objectives are: to deliver reliable operating and financial results to improve profitability to strengthen our strategic position and to develop paths for future growth.
We believe we will achieve these objectives and create significant value for our investors when customers have confidence that we are the company best capable in the segments and countries where we choose to operate to reduce their operational risks and help manage their operational cost.
Within the company we talk about our efforts and journey a reliable consistent journey where we get up everyday and cannot be any better than we were the day before.
So let us spend a moment reflecting on our progress.
We acquired ITS in April of this year expanding the scope of our Rental Tools business and extending the reach of a very successful business model.
As a growing supplier of rental tools and well services in key international market ITS well positions Parker to benefit from future growth in international E&amp;P spending.
I believe we made a great investment with ITS and it will produce growing value for Parker.
The integration process begun well.
I particularly appreciative of the resilience demonstrated by the ITS employees that are now part of the Parker family; they have responded well.
Beyond the normal integration we have also invested heavily in compliance.
Among other things this does include the reviews of customer contracts and agency agreements.
We are close to being done with these efforts and do not expect any significant integration related expenses beyond Q4.
Despite the many distractions of the acquisition process the business produced solid revenue growth and rising gross margin this past quarter.
Again credit goes for the good team of employees we have in ITS.
Our U.S.
Rental Tools business Quail Tools is making significant gains today in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market as a result of prior business decisions and investments.
By taking the long view of its market opportunities Quail Tools offshore drilling revenues have grown at a 25% compounded rate over the last five years.
Today the offshore market accounts for about a quarter of its revenues and is a solid counter balance to the trends in the U.S.
land drilling market.
Our two new Arctic class drilling rigs retail in Alaska operation with the addition of an O&amp;M contract offshore California this business segment is developing into a steady provider of stable cash both for the company.
With a solid record of performing for our customers the U.S.
Barge Drilling business continues to command the lead position both in terms of number of rigs working and day rate.
As we communicated during our last conference call in the third quarter usually the worst part of the Gulf of Mexico storm season and therefore a time of reduced drilling activity we took three rigs to the shipyard for the maintenance in dry-dock work to better position ourselves for sustained work in the future.
With over 75% of our international rigs fleet working or committed on contract in the month of September we have come a long with in this business not only in utilization but also in earnings.
By redeploying our rigs in the regions with large markets and long term growth potential we have gone from nine rigs in Kazakhstan with only two working to five rigs in the country with four working and in active discussion around the future work for the fifth.
We placed two rigs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq of fast developing market with high growth prospects.
The first of those spud yesterday and the second is expected to spud its first well in December.
As we're moving forward on discussion to take the two rigs previously in Algeria also into Iraq putting them to work alongside the two already there building our operational presence and scale in the region.
Each of these actions contributes to achievement of one or more of our key objectives.
Looking forward what will produce further progress? Well there is plenty still to achieve.
I see as just give in to take in and deploy the capital we committed to increase capacity to serve growing markets and to displace much of the subrental business that held margins down.
The construction on barge 55b is under with a commissioning date in the second quarter of next year.
The capabilities of this rig make it a very marketable addition to our Gulf of Mexico fleet.
Our international rig redeployment and regionalization continues.
Contracting these rigs previously in Algeria is high on our priority list.
The more rigs we regionalize the greater our flexibility to respond to ever changing customer programs resulting in more consistent utilization.
In our ERP project to improve our management systems we are live now on two important modules HR and finance.
We are gaining user experience and building a foundation from which we can move forward.
In summary great progress has been made on our journey.
Our financial results are beginning to reflect that and there are further activities underway that will build our momentum.
That covers the key points I wanted to make.
Chris will provide more detail on the impact of these in his financial review.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we turned in solid results in line with our expectation in most areas and even slightly better in a few instances.
We reported revenues of $237.8 million adjusted EBITDA of $69.7 million and net income of $8 million.
Included in the quarter's results are two even related item that impacted our reported earnings.
These were $4.8 million pre-tax of ITS acquisition related integration expense and $5.2 million pretax of debt extinguishment cost associated with the refinancing the term loan for the ITS acquisition.
Excluding these adjusted EBITDA with $74.5 million and net income was $14.5 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
The Rental Tools segment reported revenues of $89.6 million and gross margin of $40.9 million or $45.6% of revenues.
For our U.S.
rental tools business Quail Tools revenues were down 4% gross margin dollars were down by 1% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 59.5% from 57.3% for the prior quarter.
Quail Tools continues to face challenging conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market but this is partially counterbalanced by our growing presence in the Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market.
Our International Rental Tools business ITS contributed $34.3 million to revenues and $8 million in gross margin in the third quarter.
Since the acquisition in April the operation made good progress in both growing its business and raising its profitability.
Including the impact of having less than a full quarter of operating results in the prior period ITS revenues grew by 42%.
On a proforma basis assuming a full period of revenues in the 2013 second quarter ITS revenues grew approximately 7% sequentially.
Since acquisition ITS has been able to participate more fully in the growth of some of its key markets leading to increased revenues and gross margin and raising gross margin as a percentage of revenue to 23.3% from 21.4% in the prior quarter.
Our U.S.
Barge Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $33.9 million and gross margin of $15.8 million or 46.6% of revenues.
Barge drilling market conditions tend to soften during the third quarter as some operators elect to defer drilling during what is usually the most intense period for the Gulf of Mexico storm season.
Anticipating this we took three of our barge rig into the shipyard for maintenance overhaul and inspection for short periods during the quarter.
As a result our rig fleet average utilization for the quarter was 88% compared with full utilization in the second quarter.
Our U.S.
Drilling segment achieved an increase in revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues in the 2013 third quarter compared with the prior quarter.
Revenues were $18.7 million gross margin was $3.9 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 20.9%.
The 2013 third quarter was the second full quarter of activity for our two Alaska rigs as well as our O&amp;M contract offshore California.
We are seeing good results from these operation and expect this to continue.
Our International Drilling segment reported third quarter revenues of $88.6 million and gross margin of $23.2 million or 26.3% of revenues.
Compared with the 2013 second quarter segment revenues gross margin and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to the improvement in average utilization.
In the Latin America region our nine rig fleet operated at 78% average utilization compared with 73% in the prior quarter.
In the eastern hemisphere region our 13 rig fleet operated at 65% average utilization compared with 40% in the prior quarter primarily due to the continued operation of three rigs that initiated work late in the prior quarter.
This was the result of our success in contracting rig 257 in Kazakhstan the arrival in Kurdistan of the two rigs mobilized from Kazakhstan and the arrival of rig 270 on Sakhalin Island Russia.
That covers the key operating segments.
Regarding other financial items our third quarter G&amp;A expense of $14.2 million included $4.8 million pretax of cost associated with the acquisition of ITS for post acquisition integration and compliance costs.
Excluding these adjusted G&amp;A expense for the 2013 third quarter was $9.4 million compared with a similarly adjusted $11 million for the 2013 second quarter with a decrease primarily due to a reduction in compensation related expense and lower professional fees.
To-date our financial include $19.2 million of transaction compliance and integration related expenses associated with the acquisition of ITS including $4.8 million in the third quarter.
We believe we are nearly done with the integration and compliance activities that give rise to these costs and expect the cost to complete them will continue to diminish.
We had $5.2 million of one-time debt extinguishment expense during the quarter associated with our July note issuance and refinancing of the $125 million term loan for the ITS acquisition.
Third quarter interest expense was $13.1 million an increase from $10.7 million in the second quarter.
This represents the impact of higher debt level following the ITS acquisition and our July refinancing.
For the third quarter we reported an income tax provision of $9.1 million or 53% of pretax income.
Our third quarter effective tax rate is primarily the result of the level and mix of earnings among our tax jurisdiction and our ability to utilize tax offset in the current period.
We expect our full year effective tax rate to be in the mid to upper 40%.
At the end of the quarter we had $654 million of debt outstanding and a cash balance of $162.5 million for a net debt position of $491.5 million or 44% of net capitalization.
As mentioned earlier we completed a note issuance in July comprised of $225 million of senior unsecured notes at a 7.5% interest rate and maturity of 2020.
The proceeds from the notes were used to refinance the $125 million loan from Goldman Sachs that funded our April acquisition of ITS and to repay an outstanding $45 million term loan under our revolving credit facility.
This refinancing allowed us to secure longer-term lower cost funds and stagger the maturity profile of our debt portfolio.
In summary operating income for the 2013 third quarter was up from the second quarter as a result of higher revenues and gross margins in four of the five business segments and a reduction in ITS acquisition integration expenses.
Net income was about the same as the prior quarter as the increase in operating income was reduced by the debt extinguishing cost associated with our July refinancing and from higher interest expense primarily due to the increase in outstanding borrowing.
A lower effective tax rate also helped the comparison.
That ends the operations and financial review.
I'll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
As the quarter shows we are making progress.
We remain focused on the customer on finding ways to help them succeed by providing innovative reliable and efficient solutions to reduce their operating costs and operating risks while also making sure we get fairly compensated for our investments.
I also believe the activities that produce these financial results show we are developing strong durable and competitive operations and a company with growing potential and a sound financial foundation.
Turning to our outlook.
Based on the current activity and recent market trends we expect our overall rental tools business to benefit from rising demand in international markets and growing activity in the Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market promoted by the capital investments we are making to support this potential.
The U.S.
land drilling market the rental tools remains challenging.
Our Quails Tools team continues to focus on balancing near-term customer retention and financial returns and building long-term value.
We expect this portion of our business to remain a challenge until market conditions improve.
We expect activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market to improve from current levels.
I'm really excited about having 55B in our fleet next year.
It is the kind of rig that can really succeed in this market.
Our two arctic-class drilling rigs located on the North Slope of Alaska and one O&amp;M contract for offshore California operations located in California are projected to produce relatively steady financial results during the terms of their multi-year contracts.
We are encouraged by industry projected trends for E&amp;P spending in our international drilling markets and believe there will be ample opportunities for us to sustain and improve our rig fleet utilization.
In the Latin America region each of our currently contracted rigs comes to the term of its contract between now and the middle of next year including five on a contract for Pemex sourced work in Southern Mexico.
We are actively engaged in the current round of Pemex tenders and are optimistic we will continue to be one of the leading high horsepower drilling contractors in Mexico.
As a conclusion to this report I have the pleasure of acknowledging a major award our employees earned recently.
A few weeks ago Parker Drilling was named Contractor Of The Year by our customer Exxon Neftegas Limited for excellence in safety performance in our work on Sakhalin Island Russia.
We are grateful to ENL for recognizing the efforts of our Sakhalin Island team in such a visible and distinguished way.
This is a tremendous honor.
And another exciting milestone in a year marked by achievement in Sakhalin including getting several records for extended reach drilling.
By application of all the knowledge expertise and hard work of everyone involved 12 700 meters is the current record for extended reach drilling that's nearly 8 miles done safely efficiently and with a sharp focus on environmental care.
I also want to thank Parker employees around the globe for all the hard work and effort they have put into making this past quarter a success.
And their ongoing dedication to strengthening our ability to consistently deliver innovative reliable and efficient products services and performance for our stakeholders.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you Mr.
Rich.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Marietta with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead.
The margin gains and utilization increases in the international drilling segment is impressive.
Can you elaborate on what's driving success there and may be a little bit more color on what you're seeing in Kurdistan? What's really exciting you there? Is it activity levels or the operating condition in the area? Well one of the things Matthew that we're determined to focus on as we go forward and try to align ourselves to regions is define regions that we feel represents particularly farmers in terms of their long-term growth prospects.
And the Kurdistan market in Northern Iraq we feel is one such market as well as generally within the Middle East.
So when we started looking at some of the idle rigs we had in Kazakhstan that was a natural location for us to move to both because of the growth prospects as I mentioned but is also relatively close by some standards to the Kazakhstan market so that we can effectively leverage some of our existing infrastructure and that that we have there in that market.
And so it was a natural place for us to focus on.
Our marketing team has worked very very hard to go out and secure contracts.
And as I mentioned in my comments it's our intention to work hard to redeploy the two rigs that we have currently sitting in Tunisia that we pulled out of Algeria also in that same market.
It's great color therein.
And as you look at kind of the third quarter and margins in the third quarter on a go forward basis do you think that's applicable to what the segment can do or do you see even further improvements being possible there? Great question.
I think I'm never satisfied with what we did this quarter.
But I think realistically as I mentioned I think on a call almost a year ago when we embarked on this process to reposition some of our international rigs that there would be some lumpiness along the way.
And an example of that is as you move rigs from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan or from Tunisia to Kurdistan you incur some cost.
And that obviously can be somewhat of a drag on your margins.
But saying all that I think that it is realistic to say that the margins we have now are reasonably good margins.
I'd be cautious if I put the model together to expect that they would go much higher in terms of percentage terms relative to where they are today.
But that doesn't mean we're going to give up or we're not going to try to push some buyer.
My intention is to push some buyer but I would be careful modeling around that right now.
And moving over to ITS it seems everything is moving forward as planned and very smoothly.
Can you may be elaborate on the markets there that you see particular strength and where you see that business going during 2014?  Well I just remain very pleased with the ITS acquisition.
The business model or the business justification we had was to try and extend that rental business model that we had already successfully operating here in the U.S.
into an international environment.
ITS represented an organization that we felt like was well-positioned in several key geographic markets that are again similar to what I talked about on the rig side forecast to grow in the long-term.
A substantial portion of their business is located in that Middle East market and so that represents good opportunity.
They also have a pretty good position in the Europe market North Sea and Continental Europe as well as in Asia and some position in Latin America.
We like the exposure across that as we feel bullish about the growth and E&amp;P spending over the next several years in that international environment.
And real quick on the barge fleet and activity there.
Is there any reason why we shouldn't expect all the rigs to have worked once the dry dock work is completed and what are your thoughts there? Well we're very very pleased with the effective 100% utilization that we had on those barge rigs from I think it was probably February through August or so.
And clearly that's always your objective and the rig contracting business is to have 100% utilization.
I'm not sure 100% is a realistic target when you're also trying to balance your pricing and everything else in the context of the market.
Saying that I'm not trying to throw cold water on what I think are great prospects in that barge business.
We know right now that we've got 8 of our 11 rigs that are working today.
And we feel that we've got upside from there as we look into Q4.
And certainly as I mentioned in my comments earlier when we bring 55B into the market say second quarter of next year we're quite optimistic that that will go to work effect.
I'm pretty optimistic that we'll have a contract for that long before we actually bring it out.
That's all I have today.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats again on a very solid quarter.
And best wishes to you Bobby.
Thank you Matt appreciate it.
(Operator Instructions).
Mr.
Bajenski there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with any closing remarks.
Great Lilly.
Thank you for conducting this call for us.
This ends our call.
I want to thank everybody in our audience for your time today and for your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about our announcement our earnings release and this conference call please give me a call contact me by email.
Good bye to you all and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Parker Drilling third quarter 2013 conference call.
You may now disconnect.