Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Parker Drilling Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will be conducting a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tiega.
Good morning and thank you all and our audience for joining the Parker Drilling 2013 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Rich Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
Securities Laws.
Each forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and segment operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as segment gross margin in this call.
Please refer to the table in our current press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution of our forward looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our first comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
Earlier today we reported our 2013 fourth quarter and full year results.
These reflect both the progress we’re making towards higher sustainable levels of performance from our operations and the impact of recent market trends.
Chris Weber will provide a financial detail regarding the fourth quarter in a moment.
But first let’s spend a few minutes reviewing our journey during 2013.
Our part drilling operation had a great year by providing reliable efficient and safe equipment and cruise over many years we believe we’ve cultivated a strong customer preference for our rigs in the inland waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2013 we were able to leverage good commodity prices and cooperative weather into an outstanding performance.
While our 11 marketable rigs account for nearly half of the drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico barge market we drilled approximately 60% of the wells that were drilled in that market during 2013.
Our two arctic-class drilling rigs in Alaska also turned in a very good year.
They were commissioned near the beginning of 2013 and have been operational since then.
With these two rigs we drilled 14 wells in 2013 with better than planned efficiency and less than expected downtime.
In addition we also added an O&amp;M contract in February to manage three platforms off for California.
We made significant gains during the year in our international drilling operation with two idle rigs out of Kazakhstan in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
We’re now positioned in a market where we believe we can build competitive presence and four of our five remaining rigs in Kazakhstan are now under contract today.
These moves another contract in success brought our quarterly internationally rig fleet utilization to 73% at the end of the year up from 42% where we started the year.
we also sold three rigs late in the year in a planned effort to eliminate non-strategic equipment and sharpen our operational focus in areas with the greatest potential for good results.
Together with our client we said new extended-reach well depth world record several times in 2013 in our O&amp;M operations on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Our current record is 12 700 meters nearly 8 miles.
While having claimed to a record as a great achievement what that means is we enabled our customer to reach further into a reservoir to extract more from their drilling program investment.
That’s Parker innovation providing real customer value.
We also had an active and challenging year in our rental tools business.
We acquired ITS in April expanding the geographic scope of our rental tools business.
ITS as a supplier of rental tools and well services in key international markets positions Parker to benefit from the projected international E&amp;P spending growth.
I believe we made a great investment with ITS and that will produce solid value for Parker in the future.
The integration of the business has gone well.
When we moved the acquisition nine months ago we committed to add capital to build a stronger inventory of rental tools and well service equipment.
This equipment doesn’t materialize overnight given manufacturing lead times and shipping logistics to areas such as Kurdistan.
However a growing amount of that capital is now flown into operations for deployment.
In 2013 our U.S.
rental tools operation Quail Tools had to contend with challenges U.S.
land drilling markets throughout the year.
The impact of weak demand and competitive pricing was felt all along particularly in the fourth quarter.
However Quail Tools did continue to generate growth in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market that step up in the capital expenditure for equipment to this market help produce revenue growth of approximately 27% during the year.
Also we put a new facility and new operation in Oklahoma given us a location to better serve customers drilling mid [Indiscernible] line.
On the corporate side in 2013 we made some significant changes to our desk structure with further changes in early 2014.
As a result several transactions that have enabled us to lower our borrowing rate and have extended the staggered on maturities.
We remain committed to a conservative balance sheet and expect to continue to work for a lower ratio of debt as a percentage of capital and the lower multiple of depth to EBITDA.
As I believe this report illustrates we were quite busy in 2013 and made a lot of progress on our journey the purpose of which is to achieve the key strategic objectives outlined over a year ago to deliver reliable operating and financial results.
To improve profitability of the organization to strengthen our strategic position and to also develop pass for future revenue growth.
This was not even possible without the dedication hard work and effort of Parker employees around the globe there has been a lot of change within the company recently related to the acquisition and integration of ITS the implementation of a new ERP system the mobilization of international rigs across significant distances and some organizational and operational realignments.
As a result of all this change many of our employees are in different work environments doing new jobs or working in new tools to support systems.
They have done a great responding to the change being smart and efficient and keeping our customers’ needs almost in their minds.
They all deserve much recognition and appreciation.
With their continued support I believe we will make continued progress in 2014 as well.
Those are the key points I want to make at this time.
Chris will provide more details in his fourth quarter financial review and I’ll come back to offer some insights regarding our outlook for 2014.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the fourth quarter we reported revenues of $243.3 million adjusted EBITDA of $66.3 million and net income of $10.2 million.
Included in the quarter’s results was $3.3.
million pretax of ITS integration expense.
Excluding these non-routine expenses adjusted EBITDA was $69.6 million and net income was $12.3 million or $0.10 per diluted share.
The rental tool segment reported revenues of $81.3 million down 9% from the third quarter.
Segment gross margin decreased 13% to $35.6 million or 43.8% of revenues from the prior quarters $40.9 million or 45.6% of revenues.
The decreases in revenues and segment gross margin were primarily due to a continuation of competitive conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market lower levels of Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling business a short term business disruption in Southern Iraq and lower sales of lost-in-hole tools.
Our international rental tools business ITS contributed $30.6 million in revenues and $7.6 million in segment gross margin or 25% of revenues in the fourth quarter.
Our U.S.
Barge drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $34.8 million up 3% from the third quarter.
Segment gross margin increased 10% to $17.4 million or 49.9% of revenues from the prior quarters $15.8 million or 46.6% of revenues.
The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 4% increase in average day rate on sustained average utilization.
Lower operating expenses also contributed to the increase in segment gross margin and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues.
Our U.S.
drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues at $18.7 million and segment gross margin of $4 million or 21.5% of revenues.
This is similar to last quarter's results.
We continue to achieve good results from our two Alaska rigs and O&amp;M contract offshore California and expect this to continue.
Our international drilling segment reported fourth quarter revenues of $97.6 million an increase of 10% from the prior quarter.
Segment gross margin declined 9% to $21.7 million or 22.2% of revenue from the prior quarters $23.8 million or 26.9% of revenues.
Our 22 rig fleet operated at 73% average utilization compared with 70% in the prior quarter.
The increase in revenues was due to higher reimbursable and higher rig fleet utilization.
Reimbursable increased by approximately $7 million mostly associated with our O&amp;M contracts.
Because reimbursable revenues are a pass through of cost with little margin contribution the increased in reimbursable revenues reduced segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues by about 1 percentage point.
Excluding reimbursable revenues increased approximately 2% this was primarily the result of higher utilization as our two rigs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq began operations in the fourth quarter.
This was partially offset by lower realized day rate in our Latin America region as several rigs were on a standby rate during part of the period.
Decline in segments gross margin is primarily due to a higher operating cost in select locations including start-up of our two rigs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The construction contract segment reported $4.7 million of segment gross margin resulting from the close-out of the contingency reserve associated with an extended-reach drilling rig construction project cancelled by the customer in 2011.
We closed out the project in the 2013’s fourth quarter due to resolution of all material claims and expiration of applicable statutes of limitation.
That covers the key operating segments.
Regarding other financial items our fourth quarter G&amp;A expense of $18.7 million included $3.3 million pretax of cost associated with the integration of ITS.
We believe we’re close to done with these activities and do not expect any significant further costs for this.
Our ITS integration cost is the only item included as a non-routine expense in the fourth quarter there are several other items that led to higher G&amp;A expenses.
These included $2.5 million of severance expense related to Bobby Parker’s retirement at the end of the year and $3.1 million of expenses related to two other items.
One higher compensation and benefit costs primarily driven by the impact of the fourth quarter share price performance on our long term incented plan.
And two increased cost associated with the implementation of our new ERP system.
We went live with the finance module in October so certain implementation costs that were previously being capitalized during system development were expensed during this go-live phase.
Fourth quarter interest expense was $13.9 million an increase from $13.1 million in the third quarter.
This represents the impact of higher debt levels following our July refinancing.
For the fourth quarter we reported an income provision of $6.8 million or 40% of pretax income bringing our full year tax rate to 48.5%.
Our full year effective tax rate is primarily the result of the level and mix of earnings amongst tax jurisdictions and our ability to utilize tax offsets in the current period.
At the end of the quarter we have $654 million of debt outstanding and a cash balance of $149 million.
For a net debt position $505 million or 44% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.8 times 2013’s reported adjusted EBITDA.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $264 million including our cash balance and approximately $115 million available under our credit facility.
Our capital spending was approximately $51 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $156 million for all of 2013.
Of the full year amount approximately $78 million was for rental tools $64 million was for drilling operations and $14 million was for corporate purposes primarily our ERP system.
In summary adjusted for non-routine items pretax income for 2013 fourth quarter was $7.1 million left in the third quarter primarily due to lower results from our U.S.
rental tool business reflecting the impact of conditions in U.S.
drilling markets a business disruption in Southern Iraq and lower sales from lost-in-hole tools and increase in international drilling segments startup and operating costs primarily related to our two rigs relocated to the Kurdistan region of Iraq additional G&amp;A items I discussed and higher interest expense.
These are partially offset by the recorded income from the close-out of the contingency reserve for the canceled extended-reach drilling rig construction projects.
The impact on net income was moderated by a lower effective tax rate in the quarter.
Looking ahead I want to note a few items that will impact our 2014 results.
In the first quarter we will have debt extinguishment cost of approximately $30 million related to our January notes issuance and refinancing of 9 and 8 senior notes.
We issued $360 million of 6 and 3 quarter note due 2022 and tendered for the outstanding $425 million of 9 and 8 notes due 2018.
As a result of these transactions we reduced our outstanding debt and lowered our annual interest expense.
Total debt at January 31 was $634 million $19 million lower than December 31st 2013.
We expect our 2014 interest expense to be approximately $46 million including debt issuance costs compared with $48 million for 2013.
Our annualized interest expense will be approximately $13 million lower than it would have been prior to the January transaction.
We estimate our 2014 full year effective tax rate will be in the mid 40% range and we estimate 2014 capital spending will be approximately $190 million with approximately $110 million for rental tools $70 million for drilling and $10 million for corporate items.
That ends the operations and finance review.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
As the quarter shows we are making progress and we have opportunities to further improve.
I am encouraged by the industry forecast of expanded drilling activity in the U.S.
and the international markets.
I believe this holds potential for significant growth and then the need for our services.
However based on our recent experience and the current tone of our markets we are expecting our 2014 first quarter results to be less than our recently completed 2013 fourth quarter results.
We expect this to be followed by relatively stronger results as the year progresses.
As conditions in our U.S.
markets on land and in the Gulf of Mexico as our international drilling operations work their way through rig start-up and standby positions as our international rental tools business benefit from the inflow of new capital.
Our U.S.
Barge drilling segment winter conditions and customer delays during the start of the year have reduced the first quarter drilling opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters.
As a result first quarter average utilization is expected to be around 75% down from 89% in the fourth quarter leading to lower revenues and a segment gross margin percent in the low 40s range.
However we have seen an increase in customer commitment and expect an improve in drilling activity during the year which should lead a higher utilization.
We currently have 8 of our 11 rigs working today and have operator commitments for the remaining three.
As a result we expect this business to pick up momentum in the second quarter producing higher revenues and earnings and leading to an average annual segment gross margin for 2014 in the mid to high 40s percent range.
Contributing to this will also be the addition of rig 55B we are completing the work on this rig and expected to go work in the second quarter at a premium day rate.
We are expecting no significant changes in our U.S.
drilling segment.
Our two arctic-class rigs in Alaska and our O&amp;M contract offshore California are all operating quite efficiently and we expect that to continue.
In our international drilling segment we expect first quarter revenues segment gross margin and segment gross margin as a percent of revenue to be lower than in the 2013 fourth quarter.
Reimbursable revenue as Chris mentioned a moment ago which rose significantly in the fourth quarter from the third are expected to decline to a more normal level in the first quarter.
So this does not significantly impact earnings.
Revenues and segment gross margin will be impacted in the first quarter by expected lower realized average day rate due to the mix of rigs on standby rigs.
In addition the segment will be impacted by increases in start-up and operating cost primarily associated with Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The decline in segment revenues and segment gross margins is expected to lead to our first quarter segment gross margin percent in the high teens.
Current rig utilization is in a good level and is expected to improve further during the year.
This should lead to revenue growth and improve further as the number of days on reduced rigs will decline.
In addition we expect to continue producing solid results from our O&amp;M contracts and as a result the segment's average 2014 gross margin percent is expected to be in the low 20s percent range.
We expect our rental tools segment near term results to reflect the continued competitive conditions in the U.S.
land drilling market and cost increases in our international business as we mobilize the inflow of the new capital.
As a result we expect the segment’s gross margin to decline in the first quarter to approximately 40% on revenues similar to those we produced in the fourth quarter.
The first quarter should be the low point of the year for rental tools segment.
The U.S.
rental tools utilization has been done to pick up as we have been successful of putting more equipment into the field though pricing remains quite competitive.
With time we expect to achieve improvements in our U.S.
rental tools business growth in our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling applications and a meaningful increase in our international rental tools business as the growing inflow of new capital is deployed.
We expect these advances will lead to an annual average gross margin for this segment in the mid 40s percent range for 2014.
To summarize our first quarter outlook we expect revenues for Parker to be in the range of $215 million to $235 million leading to an EBITDA margin in the mid 20s percent.
We believe that projected increase in business activity and improving market conditions will provide a lift to revenues and earnings as the year progress.
As a result we expect Parker’s overall revenues to increase between 15% and 20% in 2014 compared to 2013.
This should lead to have average EBITDA margin in the low 30s percent range for the year higher than the average EBITDA margin for 2013.
As a company our attention remains focused on developing strong durable and competitive operations capable of providing our customers with innovative reliable and efficient business solutions that brings value to them and produce higher returns and continued growth for Parker.
That concludes my comments operator we’re ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instruction] And our first question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Gary I appreciate and still digesting that full rundown of the 2014 outlook so thanks for that.
To focus on the international side the international drilling side of the business just a couple of questions.
You mentioned some start-ups as the year progresses was curious what rigs that referring to is that the Algerian rigs or is that that’s rig renewals? Also we’re interested getting update on the position of the outlook in Mexico and wondered if we could get your initial thoughts on the experience in Kurdistan? Daniel I appreciate the questions.
The startup costs that we referred to really pertain to the rigs in Kurdistan we had mentioned that as we moved those from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan we incurred certain cost to do that those were capitalized and then were amortized over the life of the initial contract so they are going to come off in a rather accelerated fashion.
In addition to that we realized opening up in new country one of the things that we felt very important as that we make sure we deploy resources that ensure our operational success very early on.
And consequently the mix of expat resources we have involved in that project are higher than what we feel are necessary in the long run and we have a good plan to bring those expat cost down with more regional labor content and so that’s also part of that startup that we’re referring to.
With respect to Mexico there is a lot of uncertain that still surfing around what’s going to happen in Mexico.
We feel right now that we’ve got pretty comfortable that our rigs will remain utilized for 2014 and beyond that that crystal ball Mexico is pretty hard to see.
We mentioned a couple of times this mix of standby rate that we have and Mexico is an example of where we’re facing that a little bit right now.
There is a little bit of civil unrest in some of the areas where we work down there that have got some roads that access rigs that limit our ability to gain there and so we’ve got a few rigs that are sitting on standby right now because of that civil unrest not something that’s new it’s not something we feel like is going to be a problem for us in the long run so I think we’re okay there.
It was third down at there your question? Yes sir it was.
I think the other piece was you you mentioned a couple of startups in the press release on the international side and utilization has been worked around and pretty high already I was wondering what rigs you were alluding to? Okay.
Well one rig in Kurdistan early we’ve also got the one remaining rig that’s not utilized in Kazakhstan that we continue to have some very good conversations with clients both internal of Kazakhstan as well as the possibility of moving that rig out of Kazakhstan that we anticipate and have planned in our 2014 year.
We also have a rig in Mexico that has been idle for quite some time that has not been working that we have got a letter of intent signed with the customer for it to go to work as well in 2014 so those are the examples.
The two Algeria rigs you mentioned earlier we continue to work on those we do not have a specific contract but I can tell you those rigs have been put forward in tenders for nine different opportunities right now as we speak and we’re confident that one of those will prove out and be good for us.
Okay great.
And then I guess maybe to tackle another segment specifically on the Quail side your rental tool utilization it’s an imperfect but helpful metric it looks like it’s bounced up nicely over the December January period where there has been weather impacts out there in the U.S.
market so I guess nice to see that that trend underway.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what you’re seeing in the onshore U.S.
rental tools market at this point I know you mentioned being successful in terms of placing some incremental equipment out there but how do you see that market unfolding and is there an opportunity this year for pricing to come back into the onshore environment? I would like to feel that there is some pricing opportunity in 2014 but if it is it probably won’t be until later in the year.
The market remains tough we’ve all been kind of waiting for this uptick for a while and so I think people are anxious to get their equipment to work and that’s kind of putting a little bit of a lid on pricing opportunities for the moment.
Saying that we are very very pleased with the progress for making on the utilization as you referred to it we really started utilization reports last night and whether or not perfect in terms of exactly the kind of business they’re indicative that we got more equipments that’s come back to work and I’m pretty comfortable that’s going to continue to show improvement as you see next one after that.
Okay great.
And then last one just real quick for me.
I missed in the numbers what was the full year expectation for revenue growth? We said 15% to 20% off of 2013.
Okay thanks guys thanks a lot.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maybe just a follow up on Daniel’s question as you look around for Quail around the different basins in which you traffic have you noted any discernible changes in the pricing climate over say the last two-three months and I guess another way to ask it would be are there any areas where the pricing pressure was particularly key or maybe that started to abate as you got into the new year? Jeff that’s a good question.
I don’t want to get too specific in some of those regions because it probably projects a little bit some of our specific tactics and activities and some of those areas but I will just say comeback to again what I mentioned when Daniel asked the question that I think that’s going to be tough to see much real price appreciation or realization until we get to the second half of the year and that will then all may come if these activity levels that are being projected the high single maybe 10% or 11% type activity increases actually materialize.
Okay okay.
And then with regard to the Barge drilling business obviously we’ve seen a pretty significant move in gas prices don’t want to get too carried away here but in your conversations with clients do you anticipate any change in kind of the mix of targets as they get busier again in the spring and summer with the oil versus gas? We actually have seen as we gone throughout the year a little bit of increase on a gas side I don’t know that we’ve got enough I guess intel from the client side to give us a real good feel going forward.
But just knowing what our rigs are working on we’ve seen a slightly increase a slight increase in the percentage of projects for gas versus oil.
All right that’s interesting I appreciate it thanks guys.
I’m showing no further questions at this time please continue.
Great thank you operator.
This will end our call and I want to thank all of you and our audience for your time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact me by telephone or by email.
I look forward to hearing from you good bye and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today you may now disconnect.