Good day everyone and welcome to today's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you'll have the opportunity to ask a questions during the question-and-answer session.
Please note this call maybe recorded.
I'll be standing by if you should need any assistance.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Smith.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the third quarter ended June 30 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties more fully described in our latest 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Thank you Mark and welcome to all of you joining this morning's call.
Before proceeding with my comments I want to acknowledge Mark who is participating in his first earnings call as is our Chief Financial Officer after his appointment in early June.
Mark has been with Atwood since 2009 and he has demonstrated his capabilities as our former Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and previous to that as our Head of our Audit.
Mark's transition to CFO has been excellent and I'm confident he will continue to be successful in his new and expanded role.
Turning now to our fiscal third quarter results.
We delivered net income of $113 million on revenues of $331 million despite three operational incidents in the quarter which I will discuss in more detail in just a minute.
Overall the third quarter was a good one for operations and another excellent quarter for our safety performance as we continue to reduce the number of injuries that occur on Atwood rigs toward our goal of zero.
The early benefits of our energized cost control focus were apparent in the third quarter financials as our G&amp;A and offshore personnel costs came in about 5% lower collectively than our second quarter figures.
Our rig maintenance numbers would also have been lowered if not for required repairs on two of our rigs the Atwood Osprey and Atwood Mako.
We are working closely with our equipment and service suppliers to reduce our costs in response to expectations of lower day rates and lower offshore activity.
We expect further cost savings to be realized across our company as we move through this year and into next even as we maintain our top-tier safety and operational performance for our clients.
We will require new ideas as well as some sacrifices but we're committed to make this happen.
Turning now to the third quarter's operational updates the Atwood Osprey spent the entire month of April and most of May in sheltered waters off the coast of Australia effecting repairs due to the tropical cyclone that impacted the rig in early March.
These repairs centered on ensuring the integrity of the Osprey's mooring system and they allowed us to receive regulatory approval to return to work in late May and to continue to operate through this year's non-cyclone season.
The Osprey has performed extremely well since returning to service just as it had been prior to the cyclone incident.
The third quarter also saw extended downtime on the Atwood Achiever as we resolved startup issues relating to the rig's second BOP stack during its initial run to the seabed.
We have successfully deployed the second stack through the entire past month without incident and we believe these teething issues are well behind us.
The Atwood Mako incurred some minor damage to its legs after a difficult extraction from a wellsite in Malaysia.
These repairs were completed at a nearby location simultaneous with completion of our intermediate regulatory survey resulting in approximately 14 days at zero rate for the third quarter.
We were pleased to recently announce a six-month extension on the Atwood Beacon that will keep that rig busy in Italy until at least July of 2016.
This extension involves a blending down of the current rate retroactive to March and this lower revenue was also reflected in this quarter's results.
Turning now to our market outlook.
The offshore drilling market continues to be challenging and has not been helped by the recent decline in oil prices the early termination of drilling contracts nor the cancellation of previously announced drilling programs.
The false start in the oil price recovery has diminished operator hopes that we would see a $70 Brent price per barrel by late summer or early fall.
We maintain our view that the market for offshore drilling services will remain challenging for the remainder of 2015 and into next year.
Since our last earnings call the number of working floaters has declined by about 5% and the number of idle floaters has increased by 9%.
The number of rigs retired scrapped or cold stacked has also increased by 9%.
And with approximately 80 floaters rolling off contract in the next 12 months plus a current roster of 46 idle floaters we expect that a significant number of floaters may exit the supply stack over the next year.
This is looking more likely than even three months ago as the focus on cost control in our industry increases while the likelihood of near-term placement of idle rigs has decreased.
Rig supply attrition would certainly improve the assimilation of currently uncontracted newbuilds into the market many of which have already been delayed.
It would also help to counterbalance further reductions in demand that may occur through 2015 and into 2016.
The outlook for the jackup segment may be tougher than for the floater segment.
Jackup demand is off about 5% as well since our last call with most of the losses being borne by lower spec assets.
The number of idle jackups continues to grow and is approaching 100 rigs.
There is still a large number of uncontracted newbuild jackups that is slated to enter the market over the next year but we expect that similar to the floater segment many of these newbuild jackups may be delayed or even canceled outright.
In the past three months 15 jackups were scrapped cold stacked or announced for retirement which prevented marketing utilization from being even worse than it currently is.
We believe this attrition trend is likely to accelerate over the next 12 months especially regarding the permanent removal of low spec assets.
In terms of our marketing efforts even though our business will remain challenging with the lack of fixture activity over the past six months at Atwood and across our industry I am upbeat that over the next six months we will see an improvement in this area.
With lower day rates and service costs improving the economics of incremental rig time for operators I expect that we may see more blend and extend opportunities come to fruition similar to what we did recently on the Atwood Beacon as well as the new contracts for extensions tied to additional drilling programs.
We continue to market the Atwood Admiral which is expected to be fully constructed by late September or early October as a priority.
We are targeting a short list of opportunities for this newbuild drillship with 2016 or 2017 start dates.
Also I visited Western Australia earlier this month and I'm more optimistic about re-contracting opportunities for each of our three moored floaters that are operating on the Northwest Shelf.
Each of our clients there appears to have follow-on drilling work some of which will be subject to upcoming budget discussions for 2016 and/or partner approvals.
On the jackup side our near-term focus remains on marketing our three Pacific Class rigs working in Southeast Asia.
The Atwood Mako is now expected to be available in October after it completes its program in Vietnam and the Atwood Manta and Atwood Orca have availability within another six months.
All three of these rigs have performed extremely well from a safety reliability and efficiency perspective and we remain hopeful that we can re-contract all three without incurring much idle time.
This concludes my prepared comments.
So I'll pass it over to Mark who will take us through the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I'll discuss our fiscal third quarter's operating results guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter as we approach the end of our fiscal year and comment on our financial position.
Let's start with highlights for the recent quarter.
The company generated quarterly revenues of $331 million on 991 operating days versus $350 million on 889 operating days in the previous quarter.
As Rob mentioned the reduction in revenue is due to the Atwood Osprey Atwood Achiever and Atwood Mako all incurring zero rate days in the quarter together with the retroactive blended rate for the Atwood Beacon extension.
These revenue reductions were offset by excellent revenue efficiency across the balance of the fleet of 98% resulting in an overall revenue efficiency for Atwood of 90%.
Diluted earnings per share were $1.73 this quarter versus $1.89 for the prior quarter.
The company's net margin of 34% was in line with the prior quarter's adjusted net margin of 35%.
This consistent net margin during a quarter of reduced revenue was driven by our ongoing focus on cost control that Rob previously mentioned.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $134 million for the quarter compared to $131 million net of reimbursable costs for the previous quarter.
When adjusted for one-time cost of approximately $6 million incurred for the Atwood Osprey as well as cost for the Atwood Achiever and Atwood Mako operational events contract drilling costs were in line with the guidance we provided on the second quarter conference call.
General and administrative expenses totaled $10 million below prior quarter guidance due in part to share-based compensation adjustments.
Concluding this quarter's operating results our effective tax rate for the quarter was 7.8% lower than our prior guidance due to a change in the geographical mix of income during the quarter and remainder of the fiscal year.
Looking forward to the fiscal fourth quarter.
The only planned out-of-service time for the fourth quarter is five days at zero rate for the Atwood Achiever for the fine-tuning of certain equipment.
After experiencing delays the Atwood Hunter is now in transit to the scrapping location.
We expect the scrapping of the rig to be complete within the fourth quarter.
All financial impacts of the transaction have been recognized in previous quarters.
We estimate reimbursable revenues of $11 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Contract drilling costs are expected to range from $520 million to $530 million for the fiscal year and from $120 million to $130 million for the fourth quarter excluding reimbursables.
These projections are unchanged from our previous guidance.
Depreciation should remain flat at $43 million for the fourth quarter and total approximately $172 million for the year.
General and administrative expense should range from $13 million to $15 million for the fiscal fourth quarter resulting in approximately $57 million for the full fiscal year.
Interest expense should range from $13 million to $15 million net of capitalized interest for the remaining quarter.
We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to approximate 12% resulting in a projected rate of 10% for the full fiscal year.
From a balance sheet perspective capital expenditures totaled $241 million during the quarter which consisted mainly of progress payments to the DSME shipyard for the remaining two newbuild drillships.
During this quarter we negotiated the ability to keep our two remaining drillships at DSME's dock-side after construction completion until we take delivery.
This will lower cost during this holding period until such delivery.
We have agreed to an accelerated milestone payment schedule in return for these cost control efforts.
For the Atwood Admiral whose first six month the delay option has been exercised a fourth quarter milestone of $150 million was accelerated into Q3.
We expect capital expenditures to total $37 million for the fiscal fourth quarter resulting in approximately $460 million for the year in line with our guidance last quarter.
As a result of these third quarter payments net debt increased by $126 million to $1.65 billion at the end of June.
Liquidity decreased to $564 million from $684 million at the end of the quarter due to this increase in debt.
On average we project $540 million in funds undrawn on the revolving credit facility during the next two years spanning the delivery and startup of the two newbuild drillships.
We project that liquidity will increase thereafter.
That concludes our prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Tanisha for questions.
And we'll go ahead and take our first question from Waqar Syed.
Please go ahead your line is open with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you for taking the question.
On the ultra-deepwater side as you mentioned there were a couple of issues during the quarter which we see normally time-to-time.
But going forward should we assume that revenue efficiency should come up into the high 90%s or should we still stick with the 92% 94% kind of level? Yeah good morning Waqar.
I think we had some extraordinary events in the last quarter that you shouldn't expect to be repeatable going forward.
Obviously the cyclone incident on the Atwood Osprey was well discussed and we talked about the significant impact that had on revenue efficiency in the third quarter.
And clearly we don't anticipate that recurring.
With the Atwood Achiever because you have two BOP stacks and depending on your well program it may take a while after a rig's fully commissioned before you actually get to run both of those stacks in earnest for extended periods of time.
And that's really what happened in the last quarter was that the second stack had really not been deployed in earnest and until we had this opportunity in Morocco.
And when we did we experienced some latent issues which we had to correct.
So as I said in my prepared comments we think those are also behind us and I think you can conclude from these two comments that we expect revenue efficiency to improve going forward.
Yeah.
And secondly on the Admiral it's going to be a newbuild leg as you mentioned that as the rig start over there are typically some issues associated with that.
But when you are marketing that rig versus right now there are a number of high-spec rigs that are idle or could be coming to the end of their contracts at that time.
Do you think that from a competitive positioning it's in a weaker spot when it starts looking for a job given that there's a dearth of jobs anyways in the marketplace? No we think we're in a great position.
First of all the operators we talk to are increasingly demanding the greatest capability for the drilling rigs for the programs frankly because they can.
And the fact that we've got a 12 000-foot water depth capable drillship with two BOPs and tremendous drilling capability both on the main and the auxiliary rotary table gives us really a tremendous competitive advantage when it comes to looking at new opportunities.
I think the other thing that helps us is the fact that it's number three in a series and as we've admitted to some teething issues on the first rig and a little bit here on the second one all these issues are being fully resolved in the shipyard as they relate to rigs three and four if they exist at all.
So we feel that startup of rig three and rig four will be very different than certainly startup of rig one and to a lesser extent startup of rig two.
And with the capability that these rigs offer we think we're in great position to market those especially for programs that have any kind of a technically challenging component to them.
Okay.
So would you say that the best place for those rigs is Gulf of Mexico or where do you think their relatively high spec nature would be best recognized? Well the Golden Triangle is a natural space for putting these most capable rigs.
But given the fact that BOP reliability really is the biggest issue in our industry and the largest source of the downtime when we don't have that reliability I wouldn't restrict the access of those rigs to the Gulf of Mexico or even the Golden Triangle.
Wherever you're running a subsea BOP the advantage of the two BOP system is apparent and translates into reduced non-productive time and lower well cost for our clients.
So that flexibility manifests itself all around the world.
Sure.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for the answers.
You're welcome.
We'll go ahead and take our next question from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Rob you mentioned that you've seen continuing opportunities to lower your costs.
How far do you think you are in that process? If you've taken it down X percent on a sort of standardized basis from a year ago until today what's the remaining opportunity from here forward to keep lowering your average costs? Well I'm not going to be able to quantify that on this call but I would say that we're still in relatively early innings of this.
I mean keep in mind that the change in fortunes of our industry has happened over a relatively short period of time and in some cases our supply chain team is still unearthing new opportunities for us to reduce our cost and frankly we're going back a couple of times on some of these to figure out if there's more that we can get.
So I would tell you that we think we have some good run rate to continue to reduce our costs going forward especially as the likelihood of lower day rates and lower activity becomes more accepted to extend through 2016 and into 2017.
I mean we absolutely as a company and frankly as an industry have to learn to operate in the lower day rate environment and the way to do that is we have to lower our cost and that's all our cost.
That's onshore offshore and everywhere in between and that's where we're going to be focusing our efforts.
Okay.
I think you said that you are preparing to well the Admiral will be completed anyway in September and then you can keep the rig where it is at the SME and pay for that storage if you were to call it that I guess and so you're ready to deploy.
I assume you'll be capitalizing those storage costs with the SME until you are on a day rate at some point is that correct and where did those negotiated storage costs shake out if you can share that? Ian this is Mark.
As it relates to that when the rig finishes its substantial completion at the end of September that is really when the capitalization spigot turns off.
Okay.
October 1 forward we enter a holding period and we expect cost to range from $35 000 to $40 000 a day at the dockside and as I mentioned in my prepared comments we're locked into the dockside so that those costs are at a maximum amount of $35 000 to $40 000.
That range is from dockside fees to the shipyard to power supply to minimal crew for us and service providers et cetera.
Perfectly clear.
Thanks Mark.
One more if I may.
You mentioned your three Southeast Asia jackups that are going to be reprising in the next few months the day rates we've seen have been 90 days 95 days on a leading edge basis.
Do you see them holding there for the time being or are they still moving lower pretty quickly at this point? Well Ian as you can appreciate we're into some competitive discussions right now so we're not going to be able to be specific on where day rates are going.
There haven't been a lot of fixtures and we're going to just have to see where rates land.
It is very competitive as I mentioned in my prepared comments the number of idle rigs has increased and there's a lot of competition out there.
So we're going to do all we can.
First to keep our rigs busy and then secondly to try to get a decent day rate but it is a very competitive market.
Okay.
Good luck.
Thanks Rob.
Thank you Ian.
And we'll go next to Theo Meryanos with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Congratulations on the quarter and the cost controls more specifically on the G&amp;A.
I just have a couple quick modeling questions here.
Have you guys hedged the euro for the duration of the Beacon extension? Yes we've completed that euro hedge.
Can you provide a little color on what levels you're at? We are at about €1.37 fixed and if you'd like to discuss it further I'll be glad to follow up with you.
Sure thing.
Sure thing.
And then on the Mako just real quick can you be a little bit more specific when in October its contract is going to conclude.
Is it kind of mid or later when? Yes that's still in flux right now.
We think it's probably trending towards the front of the month but as you can appreciate a drilling program can elongate or compress depending on how the drilling proceeds.
So we think it's probably the first half of the month.
All right.
That works.
I appreciate it fellas.
You're welcome.
We'll go ahead and take our next question from Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking my question.
Just one out of me.
Kind of a modeling question.
Can you help us think about a starting point for 2016 CapEx? If I missed that I apologize but also maybe elaborate on the biggest variables in there.
It sounds like opportunities with the Osprey and Falcon exist.
So what sort of consideration do you think there depending on the outcome of those discussions? Matt on your first question our CapEx for next year is unchanged at this moment from what we've provided in previous presentations at approximately $650 million.
That's given the current exercise of the delay option only for the first six months of the Admiral.
That could shift depending on our exercising of the option for the final rig the Archer.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And is there anything built in there for Osprey and potentially the Falcon? I'm just trying to get a sense for how much variability may exist in the number.
For the Atwood Falcon that rig's next (25:47) is not until fiscal 2017.
So there's a bit of a time horizon there before we get to any projects on that rig.
As it relates to the Atwood Osprey it has been undergoing work as it's nearing its five years in services for riser and BOP recertification et cetera.
And all of that is included within the $650 million ballpark number.
Again we are getting ready to turn the corner into the balance of the summer to complete our budget for next fiscal year and on the November call we'll be updating these numbers for you.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys and congrats.
And we'll go ahead...
Anything else Matt? We actually have another follow-up question from Praveen Narra with Raymond James.
Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Just wanted a quick question on the cost side.
In terms of where we could get back to in the eventual cost recovery could we get back to 2010 levels in terms of cost or I guess where is the eventual baseline understanding that it depends on how long the downturn lasts? Hello? Inc.</span></strong> Hello? Hello? Mark are you able to hear? Inc.</span></strong> Hello? One moment.
They may be on mute.
One moment.
And you're being rejoined by your speaker.
Hello all.
We apologize for technical difficulties.
Honestly we have no idea what happened.
We were talking to Matt and I'm not sure if the callers were able to hear a response to his last question.
And we'll go ahead and take a follow-up question from Praveen Narra with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> If we were to index costs kind of back to a year as it stands today with how far the outlook is for the length of the downturn what kind of year can we get costs back to? Can we get costs back to the 2010 level? Can we get even further beyond I guess? How do you think about getting back costs and the extent we can go? Well Praveen we don't have any kind of a time machine here for turning cost back.
But we're going to look at every aspect of our cost structure which obviously will include compensation and manning which basically drive personnel costs.
But as I said in an earlier question we're still in some of the earlier stages of doing that.
Obviously with day rates being rolled back to levels we haven't seen in quite some time we're going to need to take a look at every and all opportunities to reduce costs.
That's why I said in my prepared comments we need to be creative but we also need to be prepared to make sacrifices.
So that's where we are on this issue and we're going to do everything we can to right-size the cost for our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
And there appear...
Yes if there are no more questions we thank everybody for joining this call and we'll talk to you on our fourth quarter call in November.
Good bye.
And that does conclude today's program.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day and you may disconnect at any time.