Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 third quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of US securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we reference in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as segment gross margin during the call.
Please refer to the table in our recent press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we make our comments today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary?   Thank you Rich.
Shortly Chris Weber will discuss the third quarter's financial results in detail.
But before he does I'd like to provide some color on the quarter.
Following Chris's comments I'll come back and share with you some of our thoughts on the fourth quarter and the future.
Our third quarter results are largely in line with our expectations while we reported a decline in revenues we also recognized increases in gross margin and gross margin as a percent of revenues.
The revenue declines were primarily the result of the forecasted reduction in reimbursable expenses and technical services project-related vendor services.
Those who follow us will recognize that the margins associated with this type of revenue are fairly low.
As a result we were able to deliver an increase in gross margin dollars and a 220 basis-point increase in gross margin as a percent of revenues.
Our international rig fleet utilization declined as we had expected to 68% in the third quarter compared with 74% in the prior quarter.
All of that decline was experienced in our Latin America region due to slow activity in Mexico and Colombia.
Mexico's ongoing energy reform and Colombia's regulatory changes are expected to have a positive long-term impact on drilling.
However in the short term this has resulted in slower drilling activity.
As a result we have only four of our nine rigs in this region on contract today.
Nevertheless based on recent business activity and current negotiations we expect to have two and possibly three additional Latin America rigs on contract by the end of this quarter and earning operational revenue in Q1 of 2015.
The exact timing of this is dependent on final contract negotiations.
We remain very positive about the long-term growth of the Latin America drilling market and are beginning to see positive movement toward growth and improved utilization.
Our recent contract activity is not limited to the Latin America region.
As many of you know we have been working for some time on repositioning our rigs in regional clusters aimed at improving our operating scale and prospects for more continual work.
One specific objective has been to redeploy two rigs from Tunisia.
Earlier this week we committed one of those rigs for work in our Caspian Middle East market where we received a letter of award for work in the Kurdistan region of Iraq that will engage one of those Tunisian rigs.
This award also includes additional work for one of our two rigs already working in the Kurdistan region of Iraq extending its time under contract.
As a result of these and other potential contracts we have been pursuing we believe we will improve our international rig fleet utilization from the 68% we recorded in the third quarter to around the 80% range by the middle of 2015.
Still on the international rig front we added a new O&amp;M contract to our portfolio.
This is a multi-year contract to provide extended reach drilling and operation and maintenance services for two rigs in the Upper Zakum field in the Arabian Gulf.
The Upper Zakum is one of the largest oil fields in the world.
It is also considered one of the world's most challenging fields due to its size and the number and proximity of wells being drilled.
We are really excited about this contract and expect to begin work later this quarter.
These new drilling and O&amp;M contracts will make good additions to the very solid book of business we have in our drilling operations.
We estimate the contracted worldwide revenue backlog of our collective drilling operations was approximately $660 million at the end of the third quarter.
About two thirds of that estimated backlog was for international operations of the approximately $660 million contracted backlog; approximately 45% of it will be realized in the next four quarters.
I also like the progress we made during the quarter in both the domestic and international rental tools businesses.
The US business delivered revenue and margin improvements while the international rental business delivered a sequential margin gain showing signs that it is headed in the right direction.
I am quite excited about a new contract we also recently secured in Latin America for this business.
It represents approximately a 10% rental revenue growth opportunity for our Latin America rental tools in 2015.
Our presence in Iraq has been on many minds lately due to the turmoil in that country.
While our operations have not been directly threatened by the unrest our third quarter business activity was impacted.
For a period of time in August and September drilling operations by our two rigs in the Kurdistan region were suspended.
Our rental tools business in the area was also impacted.
However our team did a good job of managing risks and costs.
As a result we had only a small negative impact on gross margin dollars despite the lower than expected revenues.
In summary I feel we had a good quarter in line with our expectations.
We made good progress on several key objectives that enhance our future prospects.
And we've managed through the market challenges in Latin America and Iraq by following through on our goals and objectives.
Those are the key points I want to make now.
Chris will provide additional information about the quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts regarding our future outlook.
Chris.
Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we reported revenues of $242 million; adjusted EBITDA of $71.5 million or 29.6% of revenues and net income of $12.6 million.
Included in the quarter's results as a part of general and administrative expense was the receipt of $1.25 million from an escrow account establishing connection with the ITS acquisition.
Excluding this item net income was $11.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA was $70.3 million.
Combined drilling revenues declined 8% to $154.3 million in the 2014 third quarter from $167.1 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $45.5 million from $46.3 million and drilling operations gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 29.5% from 27.7%.
The revenue declines were recorded primarily due to items we expected reduced project revenues in our technical services segment; lower reimbursables; and lower rig fleet utilization in Latin America.
Here's a review of the individual drilling operations.
US barge drilling reported third quarter revenues of $39.6 million 2% lower than the 2014 second quarter's $40.3 million.
Segment gross margin declined to $20.7 million from the prior quarter's $21.5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues decreased to 52.2% from 53.4%.
The decline in revenues and gross margin were due to lower utilization which was 75% in the third quarter down from 90% in the prior quarter.
While this drop in utilization was partly due to typical storm season slowdown we believe the recent drop in crude oil prices was also a contributing factor.
The decline in revenues was partially offset by a 7% increase in our average dayrate compared with the prior quarter.
US drilling reported third quarter revenues of $19.7 million 2% below the second quarter's $20 million.
The decline is entirely due to lower reimbursables.
Segment gross margin increased to $5.3 million from the prior quarter's $5 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 26.9% from 24.9%.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin as a percent of revenues is primarily due to continued efficiency gains in our Alaska operations.
We have achieved earnings contribution growth from these rigs as they have made progressive gains since they started operations approximately 2 years ago.
International drilling reported third quarter revenues of $88.2 million a decrease of 4% from the 2014 second quarter's $91.8 million.
Segment gross margin decreased to $18.5 million from the prior quarter's $18.8 million and gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 20.9% from 20.5%.
The decrease in revenues is primarily due to the anticipated decline in reimbursable expenses which were down by $1.9 million and the expected reduction in our Latin America rig-fleet utilization.
This is partially offset by higher realized average dayrates.
Lower operating expenses primarily in our operations in the Kurdistan region of Iraq kept gross margins relatively flat.
As Gary mentioned earlier we were able to cut back our expenses there while drilling operations were temporarily suspended.
Technical services reported third quarter revenues of $6.8 million a 55% decrease from the 2014 second quarter's $15 million.
The decline in revenues primarily reflects an anticipated reduction in vendor services associated with customer projects.
Segment gross margin was effectively flat at $1 million where vendor services revenues generally make little contribution to gross margin.
As a result gross margin as a percent of revenues rose to 15.4% from the prior quarter's 6.8%.
Now let me turn to rental tools.
Rental tools revenues increased to $87.7 million in the 2014 third quarter from $87.2 million in the second quarter.
Segment gross margin increased to $35.7 million from $33.3 million.
And segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 40.7 million I am sorry increased to 40.7% from 38.2%.
Revenues for US rental tools increased 1% to $57.4 million from $57 million.
Gross margin rose to $31.5 million from $29.8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 55% from 52.4%.
These increases are primarily due to increased activity in the deepwater US Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling market which typically generates higher gross margins.
The gains in deepwater were partially offset by lower activity in the US Gulf of Mexico shelf and inland water drilling markets primarily due to the recent decline in commodity prices.
Our rental activity and pricing on US land was generally flat between the second and third quarters.
Revenues for our international rental tools business were $30.3 million compared with $30.2 million while gross margin increased to $4.2 million from $3.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 13.8% from 11.5%.
Gross margin for the international rental tools business increased on relatively flat revenues primarily due to lower operating costs.
Regarding other financial items third quarter G&amp;A expense was $9.4 million compared with $7 million for the 2014 second quarter.
Included in both periods was the receipt of funds from an escrow account established in connection with the ITS acquisition to cover certain post-acquisition costs Excluding this G&amp;A expense was $10.6 million in the 2014 third quarter and $8.5 million in the prior quarter with the increase primarily from higher professional fees for corporate services.
We expect fourth quarter G&amp;A expense to be in the range of $11 million to $13 million.
Third quarter interest expense was $10.8 million similar to the second quarter's interest expense of $10.6 million.
For the 2014 third quarter we reported an income tax expense of $11 million or 46% of pre-tax income.
For the year we expect our effective tax rate percentage to be in the low to mid-50%s an increase from our prior guidance primarily due to a reduction in our fourth quarter business outlook and a mix of tax jurisdictions where our earnings are generated.
As a result our fourth quarter effective tax rate percentage is expected to be in the upper 60%s.
Year-to-date through September 30 we have paid down $36 million of debt leaving us with an outstanding debt balance of $618 million.
Including a cash balance of $78 million our net debt position was $539 million or 45% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.3 times the trailing four quarters adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8 times at the end of 2013.
Our total liquidity at the end of the quarter was approximately $152 million including our $78 million cash balance and approximately $74 million available under our credit facility.
Capital spending during the third quarter was $45 million which brings our year-to-date spend to $151 million.
We estimate our 2014 capital spending will be approximately $180 million.
That ends the financial reviews.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary?   Thanks Chris.
Okay for the fourth quarter we are expecting revenues to be in the range of $220 million and $235 million and EBITDA as a percent of revenues to be in the mid-20%s.
This is a reduction from our previous outlook mainly due to the expected impact of lower commodity prices on our US operations.
In recent weeks the drop in the price of crude oil has raised industry concerns about the outlook for E&amp;P spending plans and associated drilling activity.
In particular the industry's outlook for US oil and gas markets has started to shift from an expectation of growth to a possible expectation of decline.
As Chris mentioned in his comments we started seeing some commodity-related pullback in activity in our US drilling and rental tools businesses during the third quarter.
And we expect that trend to continue into the fourth quarter.
For the US drilling business we expect the utilization of our barge fleet will continue to soften and could average between 50% and 60% in the fourth quarter in conjunction with lower than average dayrates.
We do not expect any market impact to our Alaska or California O&amp;M drilling operations as they operate under longer term drilling contracts.
For the US rental tools business we expect the land and US Gulf of Mexico shelf drilling markets will be more challenging and price competitive in the fourth quarter than they were in the third quarter.
In the deeper-water US Gulf of Mexico market we expect relatively steady rental tool revenues and earnings.
But however the start of several new projects previously committed in the – for deepwater rental contracts has been delayed from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
We believe these delays are due to slower than expected progress in operator drilling programs and not the commodity price environment.
Our international businesses operate in markets where drilling activity is less volatile.
As a result our near term financial expectations for our international businesses are relatively unchanged.
For the international drilling business we expect fourth quarter revenues to be slightly lower again due to lower reimbursables but gross margin to be effectively flat in line with relatively flat rig utilization.
For the international rental tools business we expect a modest increase in revenues and gross margin on increased activity levels.
However the pace of recovery is slower than we hoped as there are still some significant operators who have not resumed operations in Iraq after suspending them in the third quarter.
Looking forward to 2015 I am quite cautious about the outlook for our US businesses.
The continuing decline in oil prices and the uncertainty about E&amp;P spending plans make it difficult to develop a clear view of the US market demand at this time.
However I am bullish on our international market prospects.
Our international markets are not as subject to commodity price volatility and our international drilling business generally operates under multi-well multi-year contracts.
We are close to finalizing several contracts who will redeploy some of our recently idle rigs and also lengthen the work period for others.
Based on contracts we are currently finalizing we have the potential to move our international rig-fleet utilization to around 80% by the middle of next year.
In addition our O&amp;M contract drilling business is growing as mentioned earlier with the recently signed two year – two-rig contract expected to begin in the latter part of the fourth quarter.
I am very pleased at our international rental tools business is also beginning to show improved operating results.
While there is still some remaining uncertainty in Iraq the changes we are making there will bear good fruit.
We are making good progress towards our target of getting gross margins for this business into the mid-20%s in the latter half of 2015.
In summary as I mentioned earlier we expect to make progress on multiple fronts in 2015 while we are managing the developing softness in the US markets.
We are raising our international rig fleet utilization.
We are expanding our O&amp;M business and we are back to growing our international rental tools business.
As current market concerns resolve themselves we expect the long-term needs of the industry will generate growth in demand for the services we provide.
We believe this will produce opportunities to further grow our business enhance our operating performance and deliver strong financial results.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from Klayton Kovac from Tudor Pickering Holt.
My first question is related to US rental tools onshore.
So given E&amp;Ps are generally the customers that rent pipe have you seen any instances of them returning pipe to your yards?   No Klayton good question.
But the US land business we really haven't seen an appreciable change at all in the level of activity at the current moment.
But I'm not sure whether that will hold for very long.
Okay.
Then relating to your international rental tools business during Q3 what drove the lower operating costs?  The business unit has been doing a good job of taking the review of their cost structure in light of you know lower growth than expected and have been able to pull some costs out of the business.
I think they also did a good job in managing the situation in Iraq on the cost side too in the quarter.
Responded nicely and with the nature of the way the contracts are with force majeure rates and everything we had relative to the expense reductions we were able to take that helped us nicely as well.
Okay.
And then just final question.
On your Kurdistan rigs realize one was re-contacted as mentioned in the press release.
But the other one that you have there when is that contract up and then what are the prospects for that rate going forward?  The prospects are really good.
We've got several tenders that are outstanding for that as well as the other rig that we still have sitting in Tunisia.
We got one more that's still down there.
So we feel really good about the market.
The specific term of that other rig Rich do you remember one year? So I think we've got a year on that one as yet Klayton.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I'll turn it back over.
And we'll now take our next question from Chris Bamman from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Chris.
Excuse me.
Just looking at the rental tools' gross profit margin it looks like you guys have done a good job of improving that margin level since the start of the year.
How much can you improve the take out in costs? Is there still room to improve the operations given sort of you know say the environment continues to stay weak particularly on the domestic side? So is there still room to extract costs and improve that margin going forward without improvement in overall operations?   Yes I think there's a little bit.
On the international rental tools side we are – we've got expectations as Gary mentioned that we're going to start to see some modest improvements on the revenue side.
But there are additional opportunities to reduce costs.
It will be kind of a function of how the business shapes up here.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
And we'll now take our next question from Walt Chancellor from Macquarie.
Good morning.
Hello Walt.
So sorry if you mentioned this already but on that rig deploying from Tunisia what is the exact timing on when you expect that rig to begin working?   It should be sometime in late Q1 early Q2.
Okay.
And then on that deployment is that rig going to get mobilization for the move? How is that going to impact costs going forward in the next few quarters?  It will receive mobilization that's going to cover a significant portion of it.
There will be a certain portion that is on us but the majority is – and that will be amortized over the contract life.
But there will be a net portion that’s still paid by us but it's a smaller piece than the whole.
Don't rethink the mobilization costs that we have from Kazakhstan to Kurdistan though because Tunisia to Kurdistan it's going to be a lot less.
Right got it.
Okay.
And then moving to the barge business.
Obviously utilization here has been strong for a good long while.
I understand with the commodity pressures you're seeing utilization potentially coming under pressure here in the fourth quarter.
Do you think that that sort of – that around 50% is what we should expect going forward? Or are there any things specific to Q4 that are weighing on that as well? Just what's the – and what are the big drivers in the Q4 utilization outlook?  I think historically Q4 has always been a quarter that if there was any softness what you get around the holiday season and things like that.
Because of the nature of the types of customers we deal with a lot of times you know they will not start a well that they could have otherwise started.
And the softer it kind of helps make that a little more conducive for them to make that decision.
But I think as you know Walt a lot of the customers we serve in this market tend to be small some of them public some of them private.
And I think they're probably some of the customers that will respond more quickly to the commodities changes that we've seen recently.
And that's why we are seeing the change in utilization.
As far as going forward I think that they also can respond to the favorable side more quickly as soon as things start changing and going back the other way.
In 2015 I don't expect utilization to be below the 50% but I equally don't know that it will be substantially you know it's not going to be back up into the 90% range that we experienced for most of the last several quarters.
Fair enough.
I understand there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll now take our next question from Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Gary you talked about two possibly three rigs going back to work in Latin America that's a positive.
Can you – obviously that I assume involves Colombia.
Is it both Colombia and Mexico where you're contemplating activating rigs I assume?   Yes Daniel.
Right now we have two idle rigs in Mexico and we have two idle rigs in Colombia.
And actually we have active discussions going on for all four of those rigs.
But I mean as things go and the way that we're trying to be more disciplined in negotiating deals we don't want to put those rigs to work if – I don't feel like I might get a good margin out of them.
So just because I got four negotiations going on I'm not so sure that all four of them will materialize at the end of the day.
But I think the two rigs in Colombia are highly likely to go back to work and one of the two rigs in Mexico.
And possibly even the second rig in Mexico.
But when I talk about two to three I'm more confident more bullish about one of them in Colombia one of them in Mexico then the next likelihood will be the second one in Colombia and then the fourth option will be the final one in Mexico.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Gary in your concluding comments when you were talking about international you mentioned the potential for mid 20% margins in the second half of I think 2015.
I apologize I wasn't clear if you were alluding to the international drilling business or to international rental tools?  Yes sorry about that.
Its international rental tools that I was referencing there.
Okay so do you think in the span of by second half of 2015 you could have that business.
What's the blueprint how do we think about how you get there over the next three or four quarters?   Well yes I do think we can get there.
As far as the blueprint is concerned it's a combination of both cost management which I'm very pleased with the team and the efforts that they put in right now.
We've seen some of that fruit with the improvement in margin that we've experienced in this quarter that we are talking about.
But it's also revenue growth and I feel like there is some good opportunities.
As I mentioned we just picked up this contract that I'm pretty excited about in Latin America as part of that segment which represents a good opportunity for growth in Latin America.
But we also see some good revenue growth over in the eastern hemisphere and most of that is for existing capital.
So you got the depreciation already on your books and so you improve your utilization and you get good leverage on the incrementals.
Okay that's helpful.
And then last one for me maybe just more practically speaking.
I think Chris mentioned a decline in pass-through or reimbursable revenues is expected in Q4.
I'm trying to triangulate around that that overall revenue range.
I would assume that the dip in pass-throughs would be in the magnitude of couple million bucks is that fair?   You're good.
That's about right.
Okay.
All right guys I appreciate the color today.
Thank you Daniel.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
And this concludes our question and answer portion.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Richard Bajenski for any closing comments.
Thank you operator and thank you all those who listened to our call.
That's ends our call for today.
We appreciate your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about the material that was covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact me by phone or send me an e-mail.
I look forward to hearing from you.
Goodbye and have a good day.
This does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.