Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Bajenski.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2014 fourth quarter conference call.
This is Richard Bajenski Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management's expectations for the company's future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as gross margin during the call.
Please refer to the table in our recent press release or on the company's website for a definition of adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
I ask you to take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we proceed today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Rich.
And thanks everyone for joining us today.
First I'll share some thoughts concerning our fourth quarter activities and our progress in 2014.
Afterwards Chris will discuss the fourth quarter's financial results in detail.
Then I'll come back and share our view on the outlook for our business.
In the 2014 fourth quarter we delivered solid results in a challenging environment.
The growing impact of declining oil prices on our business in the U.S.
was counterbalanced by revenue gains in international markets.
We made some noteworthy progress in the fourth quarter on our transformational journey.
In Rental Tools the utilization index for our U.S.
rental tools tubular goods rose to its highest level of the year in the fourth quarter.
As a result the index average for the year was 91 compared with 80 for 2013.
Fourth quarter rental tools revenues from our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater activities grew significantly from a year ago as a direct result of the substantial investment we made in 2014.
Fourth quarter revenues and gross margin for our international rental tools business were the highest for the year and benefited from strong growth in the Middle-East Europe and Latin America.
In our Drilling business the average day rate of our U.S.
barge fleet in the fourth quarter was 8% higher than in the prior year's fourth quarter despite a pull back in the third quarter's level and contributed to an overall 16% increase in our average day rate for the year compared with 2013.
Our U.S.
drilling business achieved strong financial results due to operational performance gains by our arctic class drilling rigs in Alaska.
Internationally we secured four drilling contracts in the fourth quarter; two of those put in long idle rigs to work.
All these contracts are scheduled to begin operation in the 2015 first quarter.
This contracting activity closed in the year in which we raised our average utilization for our international fleet to 70% from 60% in the prior year ending 2014 with 18 of our 22 international rigs under contract.
We secured a new two rig operations and maintenance projects in the fourth quarter.
This is additive to the one new project that got underway earlier in the year each of them drawing upon our expertise in record of performance in extended reach drilling.
Our combined drilling operations U.S.
and international including O&amp;M ended the year with an estimated revenue backlog of approximately $670 million.
And during the fourth quarter we also sold to older rigs as we continued the process of removing assets that no longer align with our strategy.
During the year we continue to strengthen our financial position reducing debt by approximately $39 million refinancing $360 million of debt at lower interest rates and extending our maturities.
In addition in January 2015 we amended our credit facility upsizing our revolver and extending its maturity providing greater liquidity and financial flexibility.
The year was not without challenges though.
Geopolitical events in Iraq limited the market growth that had been underway.
This hampered our ability to expand our rig fleet and grow our international rental tools business in the region.
Obligations to regulatory reforms slowed the development of drilling activity in Mexico and Columbia.
This delayed some of the growth in contract drilling and rental tools we had expected in those two countries.
And most recently the steep drop in world oil prices reversed the momentum in our U.S.
barge drilling business and slowed the growth of U.S.
rental tools business.
In summary in the fourth quarter and for the year overall we achieved important operational gains and strengthened our market position in key business areas.
We managed through several market challenges and we enhanced the company's financial condition.
As a result we are in a strong operating position and sound financial condition as we work through this industry cycle.
Chris will provide some additional information about the quarter and then I'll return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business and the actions we are taking in response to the declining business conditions.
Chris? Thanks Gary.
For the fourth quarter we reported revenues of $243.2 million adjusted EBITDA of $65.2 million or 26.8% of revenues and net income of $7.8 million or $0.06 per diluted share.
I will start my review with our drilling business.
Combined drilling revenues declined 2% to $150.8 million in the 2014 fourth quarter from a $154.3 million in the third quarter.
Gross margin decreased 21% to $35.9 million from $45.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 23.8% from 29.5%.
Revenue from reimbursable expenses increased $5.8 million compared with the third quarter.
Excluding reimbursable revenues combined drilling revenues declined 7% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 28.6% from 33.7% reflecting the impact of the rapid decline in oil prices on our U.S.
barge drilling business during the quarter.
Revenue gains and improved operating performance in drilling operations outside of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico offset some of that impact.
Here is a review of the individual drilling operations.
U.S.
barge drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $26.7 million 33% lower than the 2014 third quarter's $39.6 million.
Gross margin declined to $9.7 million from the prior quarter's $20.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 36.3% from 52.2%.
The decline in financial results reflects the impact of the sharp decline in oil prices.
During the quarter operators in the inland waters of the Gulf of Mexico made substantial reductions in drilling activity.
Our fleet utilization declined to 53% for the fourth quarter from 75% of the preceding quarter and our average day rate weakened 7%.
U.S.
drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $20.8 million 6% higher than the third quarter's $19.7 million.
Segment gross margin increased to $6.4 million from the prior quarter's $5.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 30.8% from 26.9%.
The increase in revenues and gross margin is primarily due to a higher realized average day-rate and lower operating cost.
International drilling reported fourth quarter revenues at $95.2 million an increase of 8% from the 2014 third quarter's $88.2 million.
Segment gross margin increased 3% to $19 million from the prior quarter's $18.5 million; and gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 19.9% compared with the prior quarter's 20.9%.
Revenues from reimbursable expense increased $5.8 million compared with the third quarter primarily due to our O&amp;M operations on Sakhalin Island Russia.
Excluding the impact of reimbursable operating revenues increased 2% and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 26.2% from 26%.
The increase in operating revenues and gross margin is primarily due to the startup of our long ideal rig 216 in Kazakhstan during the fourth quarter.
Now I'll turn to rental tools.
Rental tools reported revenues of $92.4 million in the 2014 in fourth quarter a 5% increase from $87.7 million in the third quarter.
Segment gross margin increased to $39.3 million from $35.7 million and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 42.6% from 40.7%.
These gains are primarily due to significant achievements in our international business and continued growth in our U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater activities.
Revenues for U.S.
rental tools increased 2% to $58.8 million from $57.4 million.
Gross margin rose to $31.8 million from $31.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 54.2% from 55%.
The increases in revenue and gross margin are primarily due to our growth in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater market.
Gross margins were negatively impacted by increased handing cost for inbound tools from the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico shallow and inland water drilling market and late in the quarter a slowing U.S.
land drilling market.
Revenues for our international rental tools increased 11% to $33.6 million compared with $30.3 million.
Gross margin increased to $7.5 million from $4.2 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 22.3% from 13.8%.
We achieved significant revenue gains in several key international markets while holding operating cost flat.
Fourth quarter results were the highest level achieved in 2014 by our international rental business in revenues gross margin and gross margin percent.
Regarding other financial items fourth quarter G&amp;A expense of $9.7 million included a one-time benefit of approximately $2 million due to a change in our employee benefit program.
We expect 2015 first quarter G&amp;A expense to be between $10 million and $11 million due to the incremental expenses associated with the go-live of the next stage of our new ERP system.
Following that we expect G&amp;A expense to trend toward $8 million to $9 million per quarter as we made cost reductions and expense cut backs throughout our support functions.
For the 2014 fourth quarter we reported an income tax expense of $10 million or 55.1% of pretax income lower than expected due to better operating results.
This brought our full year effective tax rate of 49.6%.
Capital spending during 2014 was $176.8 million with approximately $95 million for rental tools $68 million for drilling operation and $14 million for corporate.
During the year we reduced debt by approximately $39 million.
Total outstanding debt at year end was $615 million including a cash balance of $108.5 million our net debt position was $506.5 million or 43% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.3 times 2014 adjusted EBITDA down from 2.8 times at the end of 2013.
In January 2015 we amended and extended our credit facility upsizing our revolver from $80 million to $200 million and paying off our outstanding $30 million term loan with a draw on a new revolver.
Our proforma liquidity at the end of 2014 taking into account the new revolver with $267 million including the $108.5 million cash balance and approximately $158 million available under the new credit facility.
That ends the financial review.
I will turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook for our business.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
The steep decline in oil prices has already brought about substantial changes in the U.S.
joint activity and we are beginning to see the impacts spread in some of the international markets as well.
Given the uncertainty in market conditions at this time we are not going to provide financial conditions at this time we were not going to provide financial guidance.
However I do want to discuss conditions currently impacting our business and what we are doing to manage through this cycle.
Let's start with the outlook for our drilling business.
Our U.S.
barge drilling business was the first of our operations to feel the impact of lower oil prices leading to low rig fleet utilization beginning in the third quarter and continuing into this year.
During most days in January and February we have had three or fewer barges on contract an effective utilization rate of around 15% to 20% and day rates have also weakened.
At commodity prices we expect continued low utilization in the overall barge market and further declines in day rates.
Our international drilling operations where markets traditionally have been less volatile than the U.S.
land drilling market we expect some weakness in the utilization and day rates to develop.
But we expect the impact of that to be less immediate and significant than in the U.S.
To-date much of the impact has been in the form of delays in planned future drilling.
Some tender request and contract discussion have slowed or been discontinued reducing our expectations for near term gains in our international rig fleet utilization.
Recently we were notified one of our rigs in Mexico for which we have previously secured a four year contract extension will be released due to budget cuts.
Based on current contracts we expect our first quarter rig fleet utilization to be approximately 70%.
After that quarterly utilization could range between 50% and 70% depending on market conditions with some pressure on day rates.
We do not anticipate any significant changes to our major O&amp;M contracts nor to our Arctic-class rigs operating in Alaska.
Turning now to the expected conditions for rental tools for the U.S.
rental tools business we expect our activity in the land drilling market will be impacted by declines in the rig count and continued pressure on pricing.
However we expect to see continued growth in our activities in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater market this year primarily derived from the long term engagements on large committed multi-year programs.
Our international rental tools business was subject to the same conditions as other international drilling service providers.
However we expect our large presence in the Middle East a region which may offer the best market prospects in the current environment and the improving operating performance of our business simply the stronger performance in 2015.
Summarize the outlook we expect 2015 to be a challenging year.
We are taking actions across the company to lower our cost base sustain our utilization manage our cash and liquidity and preserve our ability to respond when conditions improve.
As mentioned earlier our U.S.
barge drilling business has been operating three or fewer rigs during much of January and February with declining day rates.
We expect these conditions to continue and have made significant adjustments in our business.
We have reduced our field work force from the peak by approximately 70%.
We retained a skeleton crew experienced hands in addition to two complete crews currently working on customer projects the experienced hands will be instrumental when activating rigs and will be cycling through each of our idle rigs to ensure they remain in good condition.
The monthly cash cost to maintain each idle rig will be in the $90 000 to $120 000 range per month.
Our U.S.
rental tools business has also experienced slowing demand in land and shelf and shallow water markets.
With the relatively low cost structure our primary focus for this business is on managing the handling cost for inbound tools coming from completed jobs and on reducing overhead expense.
We will be price competitive and continue to leverage our strengths service levels product quality and customer efficiency in order to maintain our business.
In addition as the equipment becomes available in the U.S.
inventory we will use it to meet some of the capital needs over international rental tools and drilling operations and reduce Parker's overall capital spend in 2015.
We also are preparing for slower international drilling activity focusing on sustained utilization as we continue to reduce our operating overhead costs.
We have resizing our operations to expected market levels and reducing overhead structure.
Since the onset of the downturn in our U.S.
barge drilling business we've reduced companywide headcount by 8%.
Including plans we have in place we expect our total headcount reduction will be close to 10% by midyear.
We are closely managing our cash flow and are sharply focused on producing another year of positive free cash flow after capital spending.
We estimate our 2015 capital spending will be approximately $110 million down approximately 40% from 2014 levels.
Our 2015 capital spending plan is focused on supporting rental tools growth opportunities in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater markets with equipments were already contracted -- or committed jobs and supporting growth for our international rental tools in select markets and maintaining our rig fleet for efficient and safe operation.
Overall approximately 65% of our planned capital spend is for rental tools 30% is for drilling operations and 5% will be for corporate needs.
Our management team has deep experience in managing through the industry cycles.
We believe customers value our focus on operational execution and on providing innovative reliable and efficient solutions that help them manage their costs and mitigate their risks.
We will continue to employ our experience and our expertise to help customers navigate these challenging times while we also focus on actions to lower our cost base sustain our utilization manage our cash and liquidity and preserve our ability to respond when conditions improve.
I think it is important to keep in mind that Parker Drilling has operated in challenging environments for over 80 years.
We have succeeded because good smart and dedicated people put a lot of effort into the work they do on behalf of the company.
I just talked about changes we are making to manage through the cycle including resizing consolidating rolls and reducing overhead support.
While these are actions we must take in order to sustain our business it doesn’t soften the blow for those of our team members who will be impacted.
This is a leader's most difficult duty: letting good people go.
I want all Parker employees to know how important they are to the success of this company how much the company our shareholders appreciate their hard work and dedication and thank them for their support and ask for their understanding as we take these necessary operational and cost management actions to address these challenging times.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we're ready to take some questions from the audience.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll take our first question from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Gary I'm trying to avoid temptation as looking back to the '09 down cycle to try to take through how your rental tools business might stay here in 2015 given that I know there are changes in the mix.
And so maybe as a starting point could you just help frame for us for your U.S.
rental business the rough percentages of revenues from U.S.
land versus Gulf of Mexico? And then second part of that question is just I try to think of it as being a fairly high fixed cost business and so part of what I'm trying to think is how to think about decremental margin associated with top line growth? So I was hoping you could help frame that for us.
Yes well from a split of land versus offshore we've typically been running in the mid 20% of the percentage of the revenue as being offshore derived Byron and I think that obviously we expect land to be going down.
So you can anticipate that that percentage is our overall total will be increased as we go forward.
The second part of the question was? Just I tend to think of it as being a fairly high fixed cost business and so with pricing also moving against you just trying to think -- make sure I'm thinking about decremental margin the right way because it would seem the needs of decremental margins associated with declining revenues would be fairly high is that fair way to think about it? Yes we've been looking quite a bit at the decremental margins and I think that the challenge we're going to happen that because it is somewhat high fixed cost it's probably -- they're probably going to be in the 60% type range possibly for that rental business in the lower 48.
Okay.
And it really just depends on what the level of activity is to how far they go.
I mean I realized the we're trying to resist the temptation to go back and look at 2009 but if you look at the low point we had from a margin percentage in 2009 we got down to a gross margin level Richard I think in 48% was the lowest quarter we had? Yes we just reported about $0.54 now for this quarter.
So I think that that 2009 probably is indicative of the type of the margin that we might see as we walk forward through this year.
Okay.
And then last question for me is you realize it will be a challenging environment even on the international side even though not the same amount of magnitude as we had but international rental tools business I think if you all had previously talked about thinking about mid 20s gross margin has being the target over time.
Anything changed how you think about that margin target for the business as we get out into maybe 2016 and the recovery scenario? We still Byron feel that the mid 20s is a realistic target as we go through this year and 2015 we don’t feel like there is anything that’s given us thoughts for remaining committed to delivering those types of margins as we go through this year.
And as we said before I mean once we get there then obviously our intention is to take them higher into 2016 and beyond.
I still feel pretty good about that business.
Great thanks guys I appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will take our next question from Walt Chancellor with Macquarie.
So on the barge business I'm not going to resist the temptation of going back to 2009.
In that instance if my numbers are correct our day rates were ultimately half and utilization I want to say with a little bit of even stronger than what you're seeing now.
So apology if you mentioned it and I missed it but what are you seeing on the day rate front thus far to start the year and how do you see that planning out over the course of the year? Well today is an indication of how this quarter will play out; you are talking just from Q4 to Q1 I'll walked and probably about 15% decline in price somewhere in that range.
I think though as we look at it it's almost and I'm trying to we’re trying to talk the models together and budgets smaller kind of thing for 2015 in the barge business.
I don’t know whether it say impacted by prizes as it is the utilization factor because of the fixed cost you have associated with that business and if we're down in that 15% to 20% utilization range we can take a pretty significant heat on that business on the decremental so.
Okay understood appreciate that.
And I guess talking if you want to think more broadly about the cycle and how you are positioned you have made it some of this improve liquidity ahead of the downturn here.
Just want to get a sense of that's how you are thinking about cash how you use cash is it are you going to be looking for growth opportunities consolidation opportunities reducing leverage keeping liquidity just any color there would be helpful? This is Chris.
Our first and foremost priority is liquidity and ensuring we got the proper liquidity.
We will looking at opportunities as they may arrive be a debt reduction or otherwise but gives me contact to make sure we’re comfortable for liquidity level that we have for the business.
Okay.
And then Chris what have you what are your expectations for potential withdrawal working capital this year do you have any ballpark estimates for how that can be reduced? If with revenue coming down if our DSOs don’t change materially that will be a source of cash for the business if did DSO start to stretch out little bit that's going to be into that.
So it's we are obviously we’re staying very focused on both our receivables and our payables to try and maximize the working capital benefit that comes from our revenue decline.
Okay great.
And then just one housekeeping question just want to make sure I had this right.
On Alaska I believe there is originally a five year term contract so we’re talking a Q4 start-up that takes you all the way through '17.
Is that correct still? Yes.
Okay.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
And Walt there's also a five year extension option as well on those rigs.
Got it.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we are going to go ahead and turn the call back over to Mr.
Richard Bajenski for any additional or closing remarks.
Great thank you operator and thank you all for joining us today for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have questions about material covered in our announcement and in this conference call please contact everybody by phone or by email while look forward to hearing for me.
Good bye and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.