Good day everyone and welcome to the Parker Drilling’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jason Geach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining the Parker Drilling 2015 second quarter conference call.
This is Jason Geach Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO; and Chris Weber Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In the course of our comments today we may make statements regarding management’s expectations for the company’s future performance we believe will be informative to our shareholders.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S.
securities laws.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this call and actual results may differ materially due to various factors we referenced in our public filings and other factors addressed during this call including changes in market conditions affecting our industry.
We will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted loss per share non-routine items and operating gross margin excluding depreciation and amortization expense which we will refer to as gross margin during this call.
Please refer to the tables in our recent press release or on the company’s website for definitions of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted loss per share and a reconciliation of each measure to the comparable GAAP measure and for further information regarding non-routine items.
Please take note of this caution about forward-looking statements as we proceed today.
Our next comments are from Gary Rich.
Gary? Thank you Jason.
And thanks everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I’ll start with the review of recent activities; Chris will then discuss the second quarter’s financial results in detail.
After that I’ll come back and share our outlook for our business.
As expected results in the second quarter were lower than the first quarter.
Demand for drilling services and rental tool services were impacted in the U.S.
market as a result of the steep decline in the rig counts.
While our international businesses were lower sequentially and remain less impacted relative to our U.S.
businesses.
Overall we remain focused on strong cost management and maintaining positive free cash flow while continuing to seek long-term growth opportunities that may arise in this environment.
We continue to reduce operational and capital cost without sacrificing operational and asset quality safety and efficiency.
We reduced our consolidated employee headcount by 15% from the end of 2014 up from 10% at the end of the first quarter.
We believe these measures will help us achieve positive free cash flow and provide greater financial flexibility.
We were free cash flow positive in the second quarter and the first half of 2015.
During the second quarter we acquired two 2M-TEK a manufacturer of equivalent for tubular running and related well services.
This fits very well with our tubular running services or TRS offering.
We were already a significant customer of this business and our acquisition secured access to a proprietary [indiscernible] running tool while minimizing the total capital cost of TRS equivalent going forward.
Regarding the overall market our visibility is no better or different than what you’ve already have heard this earning season.
I think those continue to be mix from the market with respect to when rig counts and commodity prices will reach the bottom.
As a result we are reluctant to describe the market as reaching the absolute bottom of the cycle just yet.
We continue to manage our business as if the existing conditions will persist.
We are prepared to make further changes to address market conditions and to take advantage of opportunities as they occur.
Liquidity and flexibility are keys to navigating the current environment and I believe we have both.
Now I would like to discuss our business segment performance.
In our drilling services business declines in market activity impacted both domestic and international results.
In the U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment a significant reduction in demand for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico inland waters as resulted in lower utilization for our drilling barges.
While operators have indicated they have plans to drill current low commodity prices and the uncertainty about future prices have delayed their activity.
We are reducing cost and lowering operating and overhead expenses in our U.S.
barge business.
We continue to lower the maintenance cost of our idle barge rigs which were approximately $67 500 per rig in the second quarter as compared with $80 000 in the first quarter and down from approximately $100 000 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment second quarter results were lower the Q1 due impart to lower international rig utilization.
We have five rigs roll off contracts late in the first quarter and early in the second quarter.
Partially offset by three rigs that went back to work for new customers late in the second quarter.
In addition first quarter results were higher due to fees associated with early terminations that did not repeat this quarter and higher demobilization fees in the first versus second quarter.
Our O&amp;M business in Alaska rigs continue to deliver stable results.
Our drilling services business ended the quarter with a $438 million revenue backlog.
In our rental tool segment a continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling led to reduced rental tools demand and continued price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
rental tools tubular goods fell to 51.7% for the 2015 second quarter from 75% for the prior quarter.
Despite a 35% decline in the U.S.
rig counts our U.S.
rental tools revenue was only 23% lower sequentially a sign that we continue to maintain market share in this difficult environment.
We were able to partially offset steep declines in the U.S.
land market with additional rentals in the deep water Gulf of Mexico.
We experience some weakness in overall revenues in our international rental tools business primarily due to reduced customer activity and pricing in certain markets.
However we continue to see opportunities to grow the business and return greater gross margin year-on-year.
Addressing the state-of-art international rental tools business we’ve made great strides in improving the operating results as compared to last year in the phase of challenging market backdrop.
In the first half of 2015 our gross margin percentages improved to 24% from 12% in the first half of 2014 with slightly lower revenue.
In addition the product technology acquisition I discussed earlier helps fill out our plans in an existing product line.
With international spending on oil field services expected to be down 15% this year and our exposure to difficult markets like Mexico and Kurdistan I think our performance and improvements are actually quite solid.
Overall the business conditions we experienced during the second quarter were in line with what we have prepared for.
I would like to acknowledge the efforts of our entire team as they continue to execute on our strategic initiatives in the phase of this difficult market.
In the U.S.
our rental tools business continue to maintain market share.
While the barge rig business we are minimizing cost and focused on increasing utilization.
Internationally rigs in Guatemala Colombia and Kurdistan started earning day rates during the period.
Across the organization our teams are focused on controlling cost pursuing market opportunities and negotiating contract extensions.
Overall I’m extremely proud of their efforts and their continued commitment towards innovative reliable and efficient organization.
Chris will now provide additional information about the quarter and then I’ll return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business and further actions we are taking in response to the declining business conditions.
Thanks Gary.
For the second quarter we reported revenues of $185.9 million adjusted EBITDA of $32.8 million or 17.6% of revenues and a net loss of $14 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
The results include a $2.3 million pre-tax provision for the reduction in carrying value of certain assets related to our international rental tools and drilling rigs.
Excluding this charge the adjusted loss per share was $0.10.
I will start my review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 4.8% to $121.8 million in the 2015 second quarter from $128 million in the 2015 first quarter.
Gross margin decreased 41.8% to $20.7 million from $35.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 17% from 27.7%.
Revenues for reimbursable expenses increased $8.1million compared with the 2015 first quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 22% from 32.8%.
Regarding our drilling services business segments U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling reported second quarter revenues of $6.8 million 51.4% lower than 2015 first quarter revenues of $14.1 million.
Gross margin declined to a loss of $2 million from the prior quarter’s $100 000 of income.
Our average fleet utilization remains at low level due to the lower demand for inland water drilling in the current commodity price environment.
Utilization declined to 14.2% in the second quarter from 21% for the preceding quarter and day rates moved lower.
We were able to partially offset the lower activity levels with ongoing cost reductions including the reduction in our idle rig cash cost that Gary discussed.
International and Alaska drilling reported second quarter revenues of $115 million an increase of 1% from the 2015’s first quarter $113.9 million.
Gross margin decreased to 36% to $22.6 million from the prior quarter’s $35.4 million and gross margin as the percentage of revenues decreased to 19.7% compared with the prior quarter’s 31.1%.
The increase in revenue is attributable to a $8.7 million increase in reimbursable expenses.
Partially offset by decrease in utilization.
The change in growth margin as a percentage of revenue is due impart to lower utilization and higher revenue from reimbursable expenses.
Utilization decreased to 61% from 70% primarily in the Eastern Hemisphere region.
In addition first quarter revenues and gross margin benefited from early contract termination fees that did not repeat and higher demobilization fees in the first versus second quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as the percentage or revenues decreased to 25.9% from 37.2%.
Now I’ll turn to our rental tools business.
Rental tools reported revenues of $64.1 million in the 2015 second quarter a 15.7% decrease from $76.1 million in the first quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $21.7 million from $29.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 33.9% from 38.5%.
Revenues for U.S.
rental tools decreased 22.8% to $35.4 million from $45.9 million.
Gross margin decline to $15.5 million from $21.3 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased to 43.9% from 46.4%.
The decline in revenue and gross margin percentage is primarily due to lower drilling activity in the U.S.
slated markets partially offset by an increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue and lower operating cost.
Revenues for international rental tools decreased 4.8% to $28.7 million compared with $30.2 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $6.2 million from $8 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues decline to 21.5% from 26.6%.
The primary drivers of the decline in international rental tools revenue were reduce customer activity and price erosion in select markets.
Regarding other financial items second quarter G&amp;A expense was $9.5 million.
We expect G&amp;A expense in the third quarter to be between $9 million and $10 million and to range between $38 and $40 million for the full year.
For the 2015 second quarter we reported an income tax benefit of $6.9 million or 33.2% of our pre-tax loss.
We expect our effective tax rate to be about 30% for the second half of the year.
Capital spending in the second quarter was $21.1 million.
Our 2015 capital spending plan should be in the range of $100 million to $110 million.
In addition we paid $10.4 million in cash during the quarter for the 2M-TEK acquisition Gary discussed earlier.
We are closely managing our cash flow and expected another year of positive free cash flow after capital spending.
Total debt outstanding at quarter end was $585 million.
Including a cash balance of $116.9 million our net debt position was $468.1 million or 41.6% of net capitalization measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 2.6 times the prior four’s quarter adjusted EBITDA up from 2.3 times at the end of the first quarter.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $304 million including the $116 million cash balance and approximately $187 million available under our revolver.
The revolver remained unused aside from letter of credit.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
From an outlook standpoint I will give you my thoughts across our three segments.
Let’s start with the outlook for our drilling services business.
For our U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling segment in the current commodity price environment we do not anticipate any material changes to activity levels.
As a result I anticipate gross margin for this segment will most likely show a loss of between $2 million and $4 million in the third quarter.
In our international and Alaska drilling segment we would expect rig utilization to range between 55% and 60% during the third quarter.
We anticipate lower utilization in Eastern Hemisphere as our rig in the Caspian Sea is expected to come off contract during the quarter.
We expect activity associated with our arctic-class operating in Alaska and our O&amp;M work to remain stable.
Turning now to expected conditions for rental tools.
For the U.S.
rental tools operations activity will move directionally with the rig count.
Our U.S.
rental tools utilization index is slightly higher in July at 54.1% as compared with 51.7% for the second quarter as certain basins have shown some increases in demand in the recent weeks.
The index is close to the April level and increase for the first time in eight months.
However we continue to view the market is still finding the bottom and the environment for pricing remained very difficult.
For our international rental tools business we continue to expect margin will be better than last year despite increasing market headwinds.
We’ll remain proactive in managing cost and being efficient in this uncertain market.
In addition managing for the short-term we are focused on long-term growth and acceptable returns and continue to see ways to grow.
In our drilling business we seek to be innovative as we discussed with customers some of their long-term opportunities for deploying our rigs or operating rigs on their behalf in various markets.
In rental tools the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and international expansion are moving forward.
Internationally we are in the early stages of testing new markets in our core regions and looking to leverage our experience and reputation on the drilling side of the business to open new opportunities for our rental tools and services.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Kevin Stone [ph] of Sea Port Global.
Hi it’s Ken Stone [ph].
Good morning guy.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit on the Caspian rig is that just a seasonal roll off for the contract or is that one-off contract now.
It’s still on contract today Ken.
But at this point the visibility is through the end of August as possible as it could continue for short-term past that.
That rig has been almost referred to as a standby contract for quite some time now and as a contingency in case there were problems with the rig it was actually drilling a well for them from a land based operation.
And that projects coming to an end.
Okay.
So that one is just going to for modeling purpose that one just going idle? It is we have taken steps.
We take steps to move in so that we significantly reduce the amount of cost associated with keeping that rig ready to go.
And what are the prospects over the next year or so for putting that one back to work? We do have some prospects for putting them back to work but I wouldn’t say that it’s a short-term as activity in that market is one that takes a while to develop but we do have some customers we’re talking to.
And then could you comment just kind of in general what you are seeing internationally particularly in Eastern Hemisphere on pricing and demand for rigs? And I’ll let somebody else go.
In many of the markets demand seems to be rather stable the pricing and those customers that are coming to us on a regular basis wanting to renegotiate pricing.
So there is some pressure there they are taking the advantage of the opportunities despite the fact that activity might be stable to push on price.
But there is probably more weakness in some of the Asia markets than there are in the Middle East market.
That’s what we see at this point.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We will now go to Walt Chancellor with Macquarie Capital.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Walt.
Gary on international margin expectations.
Just for a little clarity there when you're looking at an improvement year-over-year are you talking on the full year margin or the second half year-on-year just a little clarity there would be helpful? Yeah so when we think about it I mean as Gary mentioned in his comments if you look at H1 ‘15 versus H1 ‘14 we saw seeing year-on-year margin improvement and we expect on a full year basis to see that as well to0.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then Chris well I got you on cash flow you had about $7 million tax benefit you recognized here.
How are cash taxes going to play out if we stay in this range? Is that a benefit that will be flowing through to cash flow or you all going to still be paying cash taxes? Just trying to calibrate that as we move forward and you look to remain free cash flow positive.
Yeah we still pay cash taxes in some of our international jurisdictions that we operate in.
So we’ll - cash taxes particularly run around $15 million a year or so.
Okay.
So that would be the expectation more or less I guess? Generally in the range yeah.
Okay.
And then Gary you talk about long-term growth opportunities there has been some recent movement in the space with JVs private equity opportunities emerging.
If - as you look at opportunities certainly one of the scale of $10 million that you did in this quarter you probably not going to need too much outside help.
But what sort of structures or options are you open to as you look forward to grow in this environment if any? Well I wish I could predict the environment what it was going to look like Walt there is a lot of uncertainty out there.
But I guess what I would say is that we’re certainly open to a variety of different structures and approaches to getting the whole industry calibrated for the environmental we’re probably going to see for quite some time in the future.
I have long been a proponent of that I think there needs to be some further consolidation within the industry and that’s where we are going not saying we have anything going on but just from the scenario perspective I think you are asking about.
And then I think that if there were some particular opportunities that Parker could facilitate that I certainly be willing to talk to anybody who will work with someone on that.
Okay appreciate the color.
I’ll turn it back thank you.
Currently there are no other questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mrs.
Jason Geach for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
That ends our call I’d like to thank everybody for their time today and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact us by telephone or email.
Appreciate it thanks and goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.