Good day and welcome to the Parker Drilling Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jason Geach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining today’s conference call.
Joining me today are Gary Rich Chairman President and CEO of Parker Drilling; and Chief Financial Officer Chris Weber.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
These statements are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of United States Securities Laws and speaks only as of the date of this call.
The Company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures and in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures in its earnings release.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gary Rich.
Thank you Jason.
And thanks everyone for joining us today for this update on Parker Drilling.
I’ll start with the review of recent activities; Chris will then discuss the third quarter’s financial results in detail.
After that I’ll come back and share our outlook for our businesses.
Our third quarter operating results were slightly better than the second quarter despite a 7% decline in revenues.
Our International and Alaska drilling segment drove the improvements as a result of higher utilization in Latin America lower operating expenses and increased revenues from project service activities.
This offset lower Rental Tools margins.
During the quarter we took additional steps to manage costs through this downturn primarily through additional headcount reductions.
Year-to-date our headcount is about 20% lower up from 15% at the end of the second quarter and includes an additional 16% reduction in our corporate workforce taken in the third quarter.
This reflects reductions in businesses most impacted by the downturn as well as significant cuts in our corporate office.
Parting ways with talented employees is not a pleasant aspect of my job but it is imperative we align our resources with the market environment.
Now I would like to discuss our business segment performance.
In our drilling services business we experienced solid improvements in our gross margins relative to the second quarter.
In the U.S.
lower 48 drilling segment our results were in line with our guidance as we experienced a small uptick in the Gulf of Mexico barge utilization.
This was offset by lower revenues from our O&amp;M business in California.
In our International and Alaska drilling segment our gross margin increased despite lower revenues.
The higher utilization in Latin America was offset by lower utilization in the Eastern Hemisphere due it to I full quarter of idle time for certain rigs that went off contract in Kurdistan and Papua New Guinea.
Also a rig in Kazakhstan was on standby before being released at the end of August.
The O&amp;M business in Alaska rigs continued to deliver stable results.
Our drilling services business ended of the quarter with a $378 million revenue backlog.
In our Rental Tool segment the continuing decline in U.S.
land drilling led to reduced Rental Tools demand and further price compression.
The utilization index for our U.S.
Rental Tools tubular goods fell to 48.1% for the 2015 third quarter down from 51.7% from the prior quarter.
We were able to partially offset steep declines in the U.S.
land market with additional rentals in the deep water Gulf of Mexico.
International Rental Tools revenues were lower primarily due to business mix lower pricing and project delays in certain market areas.
In addition two deep water drill ships utilize willing our premium tubulars in international markets were repositioned to the Gulf of Mexico.
We maintained the rentals on those drill ships and the associated revenue shifted to our US Rental Tools business.
Overall the business conditions we experienced during the third quarter were in line with what we had prepared for.
During the course of the year and continuing through the third quarter we have been proactive in taking steps to preserve cash to preserve cash and generate free cash flow without compromising our focus on efficient and safe operations.
I think our product and geographic profile which is a bit different than many of the small cap oil field services names has served us well.
We have a backlog associated with our drilling service business our Rental Tools business continues to generate relatively high margins company-wide more than half of our revenue comes from international markets and as Chris will discuss shortly our balance sheet is solid.
Although we are not able to predict the duration of this downturn we believe we are well-positioned to navigate through it successfully.
One of our key management objectives for 2015 and 2016 is to remain free cash flow positive and at this point in time I'm still confident we will achieve that goal.
Chris will now provide additional information about the quarter and then I will return to offer some thoughts on the outlook for our business.
Thanks Gary.
For the third quarter we reported revenues of $173.4 million adjusted EBITDA of $35.4 million or 20.4% of revenues and a net loss of $48.6 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
Of this amount $36.6 million or $0.30 per diluted share is income tax expense we recognize as a results of recording a valuation allowance primarily on U.S.
foreign tax credits and certain foreign net operating losses.
Excluding this charge the adjusted loss per share was $0.10 We established the valuation allowance based on among other things results of recent and current operation and our estimates of future taxable income or losses by jurisdiction.
While the carry-forwards have been reserved on the company's financial statements they have not expired and remain available to offset future cash taxes.
I will start my review with our drilling services business where revenues declined 4.3% to a $116.6 million in the 2015 third quarter from a $121.8 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin increased 31.4% to $27.2 million from $20.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 23.3% from 17%.
Revenues for reimbursable expenses decreased $7 million compared with the second quarter.
Excluding revenues for reimbursable expenses gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 28.4% from 22%.
Regarding our drilling services business segments U.S.
Lower 48 Drilling reported third quarter revenues of $6 million 11.8% lower than second quarter revenues of $6.8 million.
Gross margin improved slightly to loss of $1.9 million from the prior quarters $2 million loss driven by higher utilization and lower operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico drilling barge business.
Our average fleet utilization increased slightly to 16% in the third quarter from 14% in the preceding quarter.
International and Alaska drilling reported third quarter revenues of $110.7 million a decrease of 3.7% from the second quarter’s $115 million.
Gross margin increased 28.8% to $29.1 million from the prior quarters $22.6 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 26.3% compared with the prior quarters 19.7%.
The margin increase is partially attributable to a $7.1 million decrease and low margin revenues for reimbursable expenses.
Excluding reimbursable revenues gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 32.3% from 25.9%.
Other drivers of the improved margin performance include higher utilization at Latin America lower operating expenses and increased project services activity.
Utilization declined to 57% from 61% with the increase in Latin America utilization partially offsetting a decrease in Eastern Hemisphere activity.
Arctic utilization remained at a 100%.
Now I’ll turn to our Rental Tools business.
Rental Tools reported revenues of $56.8 million in the third quarter and 11.4% decrease from $64.1 million in the second quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $17.2 million from $21.7 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 30.3% from 33.9%.
Revenues for U.S.
Rental Tools decreased 9.9% to $31.9 million from $35.4 million.
Gross margin declined at $14.9 million from $15.5 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues increased to 46.7% from 43.8%.
A decline in revenue is primarily due to lower drilling activity and pricing in the U.S.
land markets.
The margin percentage increase was due to lower operating costs and an increase in deep water Gulf of Mexico rentals which tend to carry higher margins.
Revenues for our international Rental Tools decreased 13.2% % to $24.9 million compared with $28.7 million in the prior quarter.
Gross margin decreased to $2.3 million from $6.2 million and gross margin as a percentage of revenues declined to 9.2% from 21.6%.
International revenues and margins were lower due to lower pricing and activity in select markets and a shift in business mix as we rented less higher margin pressure control equipment.
We also had a shift in geographic mix as certain equipment moved from international markets to our U.S.
operations and Gary mentioned earlier.
Regarding other financial items third quarter G&amp;A expense was $8.9 million.
We expect G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter to be between $8 million and $9 million.
We reported an income tax expense of $31.9 million as a result of the valuation allowance I discussed earlier.
We expect our effective tax rate to be about 20% in the fourth quarter.
This is lower than our prior guidance because it includes the expected impact of reserves on U.S.
foreign tax credits and certain foreign net operating losses.
Going forward we anticipate our effective tax rate will reflect reserves for these items as long as we maintain the valuation allowance.
Capital spending in the third quarter was $17.9 million.
Our 2015 capital spending should be in the range of $90 million to $100 million.
This is lower than our prior guidance as we continue to align our spending plan with market conditions in an effort to preserve cash.
Total debt outstanding at quarter end was $585 million including a cash balance of $104.7 million our net debt position was $480.3 million or 44% of net capitalization.
Measured as a multiple of EBITDA total debt was 3.1 times the prior four quarters adjusted EBITDA up from 2.6 times at the end of the second quarter.
We remain well below our current maximum leverage ratio of four times.
Our liquidity at the end of the quarter was $291 million including the $104.7 million cash balance and approximately $186 million available under our revolver.
The revolver remains unused aside from letters of credit.
As we previously disclosed on September 29 we amended our credit agreement which among other things gradually increases our consolidated leverage ratio from a maximum of 4 times to 5.75 times of our last three quarters of 2015 before returning to 4 times for the fourth quarter of 2017.
The amendment also reduces consolidated interest coverage ratio from 2.5times to 2.25 times for each quarter of 2016.
We were able to secure this amendment without decreasing the size of our $200 million revolver.
We believe these changes couples with our cost control efforts provide us financial flexibility through this downturn.
That ends the financial review.
I’ll turn this back to Gary for comments on the outlook.
Gary? Thanks Chris.
In closing I would like to give you our thoughts regarding the outlook for each of our three segments.
For our US Lower 48 Drilling segment we do not anticipate any material changes to activity levels.
Barge utilization levels and day rates should remain low.
As a result I anticipate gross margin for this segment will most likely show a loss of between $2 million and $4 million in the fourth quarter.
In our international and Alaska drilling segment we expect fourth quarter regularization to be about 50% down from 57% in the third quarter.
We anticipate lower utilization in both Latin America and the Eastern Hemisphere.
We expect activity associated with our arctic class rigs operating in Alaska and our O&amp;M work to remain stable.
We do not anticipate project services activity to repeat at the same levels experienced in the third quarter due to the timing of certain project milestones.
As a result we expect revenues for this segment will most likely be between $85 million and $90 million with EBITDA margins near 20%.
In the Rental Tools segment our U.S.
Rental Tools business will likely be adversely impacted by a lower rig count as operators continue to curtail their drilling activity.
Our U.S.
Rental Tools utilization index for October is at 40 which is the lowest level we have experienced during this downturn.
In addition pricing in this environment remains very difficult.
For our international Rental Tools business certain markets abroad are not immune to this downturn but we could see some additional softening during the quarter.
Overall we believe the next couple of quarters will see lower activity levels and results relative to the third quarter.
Customers in the U.S.
are cutting back significantly toward the tail end of the year and it's difficult for us to envision many of them restarting activity on the first day of January in 2016.
We feel like we have taken the appropriate measures to manage this downturn.
In addition to the portfolio characteristics I discussed earlier we have worked hard to keep our cost base down and to protect our cash in this decelerating environment.
On our next earnings call we will discuss our 2016 capital expenditures plan which will be lower than this year's and we will be primarily focused on maintenance capital items.
As a result even as we enter what appears to be the deepest challenges of this cycle we feel good about the mix of businesses we have both from a product line standpoint and a geographic perspective and we remain focused on capital discipline and cash management.
That concludes my comments.
Operator we are ready to take questions from the audience.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Byron Pope with Tudo Pickering Holt.
Morning guys.
Good morning.
Gary I was wondering if you could touch on your Gulf of Mexico Rentals business.
It's been a targeted growth market for you guys and clearly given what's going on with deepwater rig count yet you guys have improved margin and it sounds like topline a little bit.
It feels like you guys have taken a little bit of market share there.
So just wondering if you could give your thoughts on the Gulf of Mexico outlook as it relates to your Rentals business an maybe frame the U.S.
Rentals mix land versus Gulf of Mexico if you could? Well Byron we really are proud of what our Rental Tools team is done in the Gulf of Mexico and developing that business as a good revenue stream and margin generators will force.
As far as the go forward basis I think that we need to be cautious about or looking at that growth as being too substantial just because I think that there's more stability in that market than there is growth because there have been some absolute increases in activity in addition to some market share that we think we picked up in that segment in the past.
I'm not saying that I think it's necessarily going to go the other direction but I wouldn't anticipate the same levels of growth that we have been able to enjoy up to this point.
As far as the land piece is concerned you know that's pretty much anybody's get now that's looking pretty challenging and customers are not very clear on what they're going to be doing at this point but all in all I feel really proud of what the overall U.S.
Rental Tools team is done and maintaining the margins they have been able to maintain despite the level of activity declines and stuff that have occurred in the market.
Okay.
And then just with regard to the U.S.
Land Rentals business just given that you guys have a number of locations around the country I would envision that you want to be there for the next up cycle.
So I would think of that as being a labor intensive business and so is it fair to think that you return to the extent that you can but wouldn't expect any dramatic changes in terms of your Rental Tools infrastructure in U.S.
land? No there's not going to be a lot of significant change but the team has worked hard to look at what infrastructure costs they do have and maintaining some of these locations and we have done some scaling back a little bit not necessarily closing facilities per se but changing the way we he operate so that we can be a little more cost efficient.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And we will take our next question from James West with Evercore.
Hey good morning everyone.
This is Alex on for James.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the international and Alaska drilling what was effect of the project services revenues is this quarter? Yes.
We don't normally split that out separately but it was you know relatively meaningful component of the change and we on that business it’s very much driven by the project plan of the customer and certain quarters will have more project milestones achieved than not and so it was a good quarter just from the level of activity on the project the key project that we're working on right now.
Okay.
And then on U.S.
rentals is there a theoretical bottom in margins just from like the attrition with the drill pipe and I guess the cannibalization or I guess at least price point you guys would be unwilling to go below? Well I would like to say that that bottom occurred a long time ago but there continues to be some pressure out there in the market.
Look we’re trying really hard to keep prices from going any further down from where they’re at right now and it’s difficult for me to project.
But I feel pretty good about the position we have as we’ve said before our emphasis is on the quality of the product that we offer the service that we provide the client the mix of inventory that we have and ultimately translating into reduced risk for the customer when they execute their projects an I think when you have that kind of the model it allows you to push back a little bit on some of the price initiatives.
Doesn't eliminate them and I would hope we don't see a whole lot of slippage from where we're at right now.
Have you seen a shift in the mix of your customer base to the upside or downside on the U.S.
side? I don't know that we have really seen that much of a shift.
We’ve clearly picked up some customers as an activity in some areas that we didn't necessarily have it before.
We’re also challenged with you know competitors are trying to take away some of the customers that have.
But thanks to the resilience of the relationships we build over a long period of time and executing that business model that I talked about a second ago.
I think we’ve done pretty good holding on.
If you look at our overall U.S.
Rental Tools business I think you'll find that our revenue is down less than the average rig count is down and therefore you could probably infer that we picked up market share in this environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's it for me.
Sorry about the Cougars.
And we’ll take our next question from Walt Chancellor with Macquarie.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Walt.
So I guess I want to start on the International Drilling side and in Kazakhstan.
I guess first where are your rigs working right now in-country? Are any of them in the Tengiz Field? Have you all worked there previously and with the potential for the expansion of that field going through do you see any opportunity there maybe you know even with some model rigs elsewhere in that region? We worked in Tengiz in the past I think that Kazakhstan in general let me just say that we feel pretty positive about the circumstances that are there the environment that's there Walt and with the exception of one rig that’s just recently been laid down we think that we’re probably going to stay pretty active there.
Just generating a lot of good cash for us right now and we have real good relationships with the clients that we are working for.
Just following up could you see the potential to move some of your idled Kurdistan rigs back there but I guess what's the outlook for those rigs in Kurdistan if they're not moving? Yes.
I don't really anticipate us moving rigs from Kurdistan back into Kazakhstan at this point.
We remain optimistic about Kurdistan.
That doesn’t mean we’re not looking for other opportunities outside of Kurdistan to potentially deploy those rigs as they go through a little bit of turmoil internal to the country beyond the economic environment we’re in.
We’re still we have one of those rigs it’s still working today and we’re pretty optimistic about that.
And we got some good conversations with customers going forward.
But they are not certain so we are looking elsewhere see what we can do but I do not anticipate those going back to Kazakhstan.
Okay.
Appreciate that color.
And then I guess for Chris just trying to really tighten up on cash flow here as we look into 2016.
I guess simplistically as long as you all are in a sort of pre-tax income loss position is the way we should think about your cash flow from operations essentially EBITDA less your interest and you know the about $15 million $16 million of cash taxes you have referenced in the past? Yes.
I think that's fair.
I mean may be a little less than that just based on activity levels in certain international jurisdictions but yes sort of that $10 million to $15 million in cash taxes is fair.
Okay.
And then I guess working capital you expect that to be pretty neutral from here on out or have any scenarios where you see I guess with the lay of the happened as you see it today.
We might see a little benefit in the fourth quarter but not I don't think a lot and we may get a little bit of benefit next year.
Just depends on how the market evolves but from a planning perspective we're not looking to that as a lever.
So when we think about achieving our goal of being free cash flow positive it's about what do we do on the CapEx side.
We're not looking to working capital to be a benefit.
Got it.
Great.
It was but we're not planning for it be.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess just finally on the revolver side there you're undrawn currently but as you move forward you know if things were to deteriorate further do you think you would have the flexibility for potentially a little bit looser on the covenant side there? I think so.
In terms of actually going back an getting it more release you're saying.
Yes.
Yes.
I mean a key objective of ours was open keeping the full $200 million in place and hopefully putting something in place that didn't require that and that's why we back into those the 5.75 times and just given the uncertainties of how 2016 is going to unfold and so but I think having that full $200 million of capacity gives us flexibility you know both from a backstop perspective and just to be opportunistic if we can but it also you know if the banks are looking for a trade if you will for additional covenant relief we have got capacity to trade if you will.
Okay.
Great.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll take our next question from Ken Sill with Seaport Global Securities.
Hi.
Morning guys.
First just kind of a housekeeping question.
I haven't seen you know an operating statistics update since August.
Are you guys still going to be providing those or are you like the rest of the world that's coming to an end? Yes.
That will be issued today.
Oh today.
Okay.
Great.
And that will give us a little bit more insight into rates and utilization on the rigs.
That's good.
So you guys are doing a pretty good job of staying cash break even and it's a pretty crummy market out there but you're saving your liquidity.
So what kind of help us figure out what kind of opportunity do you see in general come willing available? International is slowing down; U.S.
is pretty bad and going to get worse in the fourth quarter.
I mean what would be a catalyst for some opportunity coming up for you guys? Well Ken I appreciate the question.
I'm going to have a difficult time giving you much specificity in answering it other than to just say look we think it is prudent for us to maintain the option if something were it materialize and we're keeping our eyes open and being prepared for it whether it be organic or inorganic opportunities going forward and we just feel that we got ourselves in a pretty good position to be able to make those types of choices.
And then just kind of a little bit off topic there but Schlumberger saying that they're going to get into the rig building business and kind of going back to their 1970's model of owning hard assets.
Have you seen that impact or do you guys see yourself working with them on rigs or is that just at this stage you're not quite sure how that's going to play out? Well Schlumberger's you got a bunch of smart individuals over there and I am sure that they have thought through long and hard jumping in to the hard asset ownership side of the equation.
Schlumberger is already a big customer of ours and we work very closely with them and we will continue to work very closely.
I don't see this as a threat to our business in any way.
Alright.
That's all I had thank you.
And we will take our next question from Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi Matt.
You all talk about being focused on managing the business for this operating environment to extend through 2016 focus on cash flow breakeven.
I wanted to dig into the rentals inventory balance a little bit more the number that's reported on the operational update.
You guys are coming offer a period where you recapped the International Rentals businesses invested more into diversifying offshore but what can we expect those balances will look like going forward as you match kind of CapEx to cash flows an are there any write-down risks associated with that inventory balance? Well great question.
I don't at this point time see that we'll be taking any I would expect write-downs to come from that business.
We look at that on a regular basis an we will continue to look at that and if it's necessary in the future obviously we will make some adjustment but I think that overall from the balance point of view.
As Chris mentioned that we intend to remain cash flow positive in 2016 and the biggest lever we're going to pull on that is on the CapEx side and so theoretically if the market were not to increase from where it's at right no we probably have more inventory than we need for that size of market and consequently we won't be spending the CapEx that would sustain the levels of inventory that you see in our reports.
However what we do think that we will still have even in a reduced CapEx environment is money to make investments in organic growth opportunity that may come either on the deepwater side as we continue to focus on that as well as in the some of the international markets where there might be some opportunities for growth.
That's helpful.
I'm just trying to get a sense for if we can see the utilization or start working the right way as the balance comes down which obviously could lead so some favorable pricing dynamics but maybe I'm a little too far often that thought process.
Well I think that is the dynamic that you will see at the right time and I would love to see that happen tomorrow but if you can tell me what rig count going be I could probably give you a little better indication of what is our utilization was going to be but at this point what we're doing is trying to be conservative and if we got stuff in inventory we're obviously not spending new CapEx for it and as that gets consumed our total inventory will come down.
Therefore in a flat rig environment relative today you will start seeing utilization improve.
I appreciate the color and congrats on a good quarter here.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Mike Profiley with Nomura Asset Management.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
First I'm just curious if I look at 3Q consolidated revenue can you ballpark the exposure oil versus gas? We really don’t sit down and spend much time Mike looking at oil versus gas for us our products and services are equally applicable to one versus the other and it really varies from one region you know one basin to another in the U.S.
or even one country to another outside the U.S.
So I really don't have that information for you.
Okay.
And then my second question is regarding the August operational update on the joint services side in the international market.
Just curious I'm looking forward to seeing the ones you post today but from 4Q 2015 to 1Q 2016 I think two commitments go away in the Eastern Hemisphere segment and then it drops from four to one in Latin America.
Could just talk about that a little bit? Do you expect any of those commitments that are dropping off to be renewed? Has that changed at all on your latest operational status report that you're going to post today? Well I mean if customers are very astute in this environment and when they see that there are rigs that are nearing the end of their contracts they're going to push to the very end in terms of the way that they negotiate or re-negotiate any renewals of those contracts what not to try and extract the price declines and stuff that they feel like that are out there available to them.
So it's not a surprise to me in this current environment that you're seeing things where we might normally have re-contracted and extended terms and that sort of thing not yet re-contracted.
Therefore it's also difficult for me to forecast exactly how it's going to play out in Q4 and Q1 and Q2 of next year in terms of how these things are done.
Generally I remain fairly optimistic about the international market being a lot more resilient than the market here in the U.S.
There's other catalysts for that for most of the operators to continue to work on the international side that aren't necessarily present in a lot of U.S.
operators and therefore I think it will be in pretty good shape with a lot of those rigs as we go forward.
We did suggest that our forecast for international and Alaska rig activity in Q4 utilization will be somewhere in the around 50% and which is a slight from the 57% we reported for the third quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
So it's fair to assume that the rigs that aren't contracted through or contracts come to end in 4Q it's going to come down to the wire as it about gets closer to the term to see if they are renewing and under what kind of terms they are renewed at? Yes.
I think that's just typically of the environment we are in.
You're going to see it pushed to the very end of course we're pushing it too I mean we're not exactly excited about giving any huge concession for extension either so.
Sure.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions today.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our next question from Chris Bamman with Sidoti Incorporated.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Chris.
More of like a bigger picture here.
Through your experience through the ups and downs of this business how would you when we do gets an upturn how would you expect the business to perform like which one is going to be like the early indicator that things have started to turn and how it would flow from there? Great question.
You know I was visiting with a fairly large customer not too log ago that was talking to us about a potential project on our project services side and they were thinking about when they ought to initiate this project so that the costs of their project could be minimized and we were telling them that we thought they ought not wait very long because what happens is as soon as people see some stability the psyche will change significantly on the service side and people will become much much less willing to give discounts in that and even start getting some confident so we can raise prices and go back to the other direction.
I don’t think it necessarily requires a huge change in commodity prices and that sort of thing for that psyche to change.
As to when it's going to happen and how significant I don't know but we cautioned the customer in that discussion they better not wait too long because I think that you are start seeing some significant declines and production in the U.S.
and even outside the U.S.
but I think that cycle will change pretty quickly.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Ian Gazard with BlueMountain Capital.
Yes.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ian.
So if I annualize your third quarter CapEx I'm at about $70 million $72 million for next year.
Is that a reasonable estimation of where you might be? Yes we hadn’t given any guidance yet we know we’re going to be lower than this year.
What we do say is that our maintenance CapEx we guide sort of to be between $70 million to $90 million in a kind of relatively normal environment so we’d definitely be at the low end at that range and hopefully a little lower.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And on the international and Alaska drilling side I think I heard you say that you expect revenues in the fourth quarter of $85 million to $90 million in international and Alaska.
Was that correct? Yes.
Okay.
So your you're coming down were $110.6 million down to $85 million $90 million in the fourth quarter because of the lower utilization? Yes Ian.
There will be less project services activity in the fourth quarter as well too just based on kind of the cadence of project milestones.
Rights.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
That's helpful.
End of Q&amp;A And we have no further questions and I would now like to turn the conference back over to Jason Geach for any additional or closing remarks.
Appreciate the questions.
That ends our call today.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Parker Drilling.
If you have any questions about material covered in our announcement and this conference call please contact us by telephone or email.
Goodbye and have a great day.
And this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.