Good day everyone and welcome to today's program.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during our Q&amp;A session.
Please note today's call is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to Atwood Oceanics' conference call and webcast to review the company's operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended September 30 2015.
The speakers today will be Rob Saltiel President and CEO; and me Mark Smith Senior Vice President and CFO.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that during the course of this conference call we may make forward-looking statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties more fully described in our latest 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.
Actual results may differ materially.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements which are applicable only as of the date hereof.
Now let me turn the call over to Rob for opening remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mark and good day to all of you joining this morning's call.
In the fourth quarter we established new quarterly records for revenue and earnings due to excellent operations performance and good cost control.
In addition our fiscal year 2015 revenue and earnings also set new company records.
Our execution during this downturn continues to be outstanding.
The Atwood rig fleet operated at a combined 97% revenue efficiency in the fourth quarter.
Our operations and technical teams are performing at a very high level.
And one area of significant improvement this year has been our BOP maintenance and reliability results.
In fact in the Gulf of Mexico we've been able to move between wells on the Atwood Condor and Atwood Advantage a total of six times without requiring the BOP to be brought to the surface.
Achieving this so-called wet certification of the BOP is a good example of how Atwood's rig teams are delivering more cost-effective wells and saving time and money for our clients.
Fortunately our excellent operating performance has continued into the current quarter.
For the month of October we operated at a fleet-wide 99% revenue efficiency and incurred no BOP-related downtime on any of our rigs across the fleet.
We will look to maintain this strong momentum through the rest of this quarter.
I also want to say a few words about our safety and environmental results in fiscal year 2015.
Safety and environmental stewardship is our most important company value.
And 2015 represents the best year for HSE performance in our 47 year history.
In 2015 we lowered last year's previous record low Total Recordable Incident Rate by nearly 40%.
In doing so we also eliminated the occurrence of any lost time incidents across the company for the first time in more than a decade despite working a record 5 million man-hours.
Our environmental results were equally impressive as we registered no spills anywhere in our fleet of a reportable volume.
Our excellent HSE results have been largely achieved through the rigorous use of our safety tools by our offshore employees.
However we will remain vigilant as we know that safety is a daily challenge for all of us in the offshore drilling industry.
We do plan to advance a limited number of new HSE initiatives this fiscal year including an increasing emphasis on process safety in order to advance closer to our ultimate goal of zero incidents across the entire Atwood organization.
Our fourth quarter financial results also demonstrate the benefits of our company-wide cost reduction efforts.
Over the past year cost reduction has been firmly ingrained in our corporate culture after years of focus on our growth initiatives.
Our shore-based and offshore employees have embraced the need to run our rigs more efficiently in the face of lower day rates and lower oil prices.
We are in the process of implementing or have already implemented rig-related cost savings in the areas of offshore labor and onshore rig support costs inspection services repair and maintenance insurance communications benefits catering.
We continue to find new ways to save money in running our rigs.
We've also worked to align our G&amp;A costs with the recent decline in our fleet activity.
In addition we've beefed up our supply chain organization to work more closely with our key suppliers to ensure that their pricing and service levels are improved during this downturn.
While I'm commenting on our cost focus I also want to mention our company's liquidity position and outlook as this has become an important topic for all offshore drillers.
Atwood benefits from our debt maturities not coming due until May 2019 in the case of our revolving credit facility and February 2020 in the case of our publicly-traded bonds.
However given that the timing for the recovery for our business remains uncertain we have recently amended our credit facility agreement as a prelude to enhancing our liquidity and providing greater financial flexibility.
Mark will provide more color on this subject in his prepared comments.
I also want to comment on our quarterly dividends since Mark and I field quite a few questions on this topic as well.
When we initiated the dividend last September our industry outlook and the Atwood share price were both in very different places from where they are today.
Decisions related to dividend policy are made by our Board of Directors so we won't be making any announcements on this call; however we do recognize that the opportunity cost of paying a dividend has risen given potential alternative uses of this cash in today's uncertain market.
Shifting now to the marketing front our team was successful in concluding some welcome contract extensions since our last earnings call.
Kosmos Energy our client for the Atwood Achiever added a year of term to our existing contract as part of a blend and extend agreement that will keep the rig contracted until November 2018.
The Achiever continues to perform extremely well and will be a drilling a promising exploration program over the next year in Mauritania and Senegal.
We also inked a nine month extension on the Atwood Orca in Thailand.
It was part of a blend and extend deal with our client Mubadala Petroleum.
While the implied extension rate was not spectacular we are pleased to see this rig stay busy.
And just this morning we announced that the Atwood Advantage has been awarded approximately four months of plug and abandonment work for our client Noble Energy here in the Gulf of Mexico.
This work is likely to begin in late summer 2016.
And when it does we will suspend our current operating rate in favor of a lower operating rate during the P&amp;A work.
We will then revert to the previous higher rate once the P&amp;A work is complete.
With this additional term the Advantage will be under contract until approximately August 2017.
I also want to acknowledge the separate announcement from this morning regarding our progress in signing up one of our two uncontracted drillships for a drilling program in Brazil.
While we do not normally publicize progress on drilling contracts that are still under development we agree with our client that due to other publicity that was being generated we would make an announcement.
While we are encouraged by our progress we still need to agree a definitive contract and final approvals may not occur until early 2016.
The most challenging development for Atwood in the past quarter was the idling of the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta which occurred for both rigs about the end of September.
These rigs have been consistent high performers but the lack of available jackup programs in Southeast Asian coupled with intense competition for the few active tenders that were out there led to both rigs facing a substantial period without work.
The Mako and Manta has been mobilized to the Philippines where they will be collocated in a shipyard with good facilities and low-cost utilities.
We will continue to bid these rigs on suitable drilling programs while they are idle.
In our recent Fleet Status Report we indicated that we were currently upgrading the mooring system on the Atwood Osprey.
This is being done to ensure that the rig is well-equipped to withstand potential storm activity during Australia's upcoming cyclone season.
The upgrade work is proceeding toward a mid-November completion so our estimate of three weeks out of service at zero rate still looks good.
At the same time in Australia the Atwood Eagle is completing its special periodic survey and undergoing maintenance on its mooring system.
The Eagle's work is also expected to be completed later this month and we are still targeting our three week out of service estimate.
The only other planned out of service time in fiscal 2016 is approximately seven days for the Atwood Orca in the second fiscal quarter for an intermediate survey.
Turning to the newbuild drillships the Atwood Admiral has recently completed its major work scope and will be stationed at a dockside location in the DSME shipyard starting this week.
The Atwood Archer continues its construction progress and is roughly eight months behind the Admiral.
Our position regarding delivery of these ships is unchanged.
If we do not line up work that dovetails with our scheduled delivery we expect to delay delivery further per the options that we have with the shipyard.
Turning now to our market outlook there's been little change in our general point of view since the last earnings call.
Demand for working floaters has declined by a further 10% with most of the declines in the midwater and deepwater segments.
The number of idle floaters has increased by 16 while the number of floaters that have been retired scrapped or cold-stacked has only increased by nine.
It is fair to say that rig supply attrition has occurred at a slower pace than we would have expected.
However with 75 floaters rolling off their contracts in the next 12 months we remain convinced that this attrition will accelerate as we move into and through calendar year 2016.
The story for the Jackup segment since our last call is similar to that of floaters: falling demand an increasing number of idle rigs and a relatively small number of rigs exiting the supply stack.
Again permanent requirement (10:13) of jackup capacity looks inevitable with high numbers of contract rollovers and weak demand.
In terms of our marketing efforts our top priorities are securing contracts for the Admiral and Archer and maintaining continuous work for our active rigs that have near-term contract rollovers.
Fortunately we do see incremental work prospects for each of our active rigs.
Our marketing team is tasked with adding backlog to bridge to a potential recovery period for our industry.
And with that I conclude my prepared comments.
And I'll pass it over to Mark who will take us through the numbers.
Mark? Thanks Rob.
Today I will discuss our fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter and full year 2016 and comment on our financial position.
Let start with highlights for the recent quarter and fiscal year ended September 2015.
The company generated record revenues of $363 million versus $331 million for the previous quarter totaling $1.4 billion for the fiscal year.
Revenue increased as the Atwood Achiever and Atwood Osprey had higher revenue efficiency than the previous quarter.
Revenue efficiency for the fourth quarter was 97% compared with 90% in Q3.
The fleet operated 1 012 days versus 991 in the previous quarter totaling 4 015 days for the fiscal year 2015 compared to 3 839 for fiscal 2014.
The company generated diluted earnings per share of $2.32 in the fourth quarter versus $1.73 in the third quarter totaling $6.65 for the full fiscal year.
Net margin was 41% versus 34% for the previous quarter resulting in a net margin of 31% for the entire fiscal 2015.
Contract drilling costs excluding reimbursable cost of $9 million totaled $119 million for the quarter compared to $134 million net of reimbursable costs for the previous quarter.
Contract drilling costs totaled $520 million for the full fiscal year.
The decreased costs in the fourth quarter are due in part to the Atwood Osprey's cyclone-related repairs which were incurred in Q3.
Further contract drilling costs were lower than the guidance we provided on the last call due to our ongoing focus on cost control and due to the timing of maintenance projects.
General and administrative expenses totaled $15 million for the fourth quarter which is in line with our prior guidance versus $10 million in the previous quarter.
The increase in the fourth quarter is due to the incurrence of fees related to our credit facility amendment and a one-time benefit of a share-based compensation adjustment which occurred in the third quarter.
Including these one-time items general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year totaled $57 million compared to $61 million in fiscal 2014.
Concluding this quarter's financial results our effective tax rate for the quarter was 9% in line with the previous quarter.
The full fiscal year effective tax rate was 10%.
Moving to the balance sheet capitalized expenditures totaled $28 million for the fourth quarter versus $242 million for the (13:40) which included shipyard milestone payments.
Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2015 totaled $448 million.
Total debt remained flat at approximately $1.7 billion quarter-on-quarter.
Cash on hand at September 30 increased to a total of $114 million.
Note our accounts receivable increased from the prior quarter due primarily to a procedural delay in the collection from a client.
There are no disputes with this client and we expect full collection of these funds within the current first quarter 2016.
Looking forward now to the fiscal first quarter and full year 2016 we estimate reimbursable revenues to range from $32 million to $36 million of which $8 million to $10 million is expected in the first quarter.
As Rob mentioned we have planned out-of-service time for the Atwood Osprey and the Atwood Eagle in the first quarter.
The Osprey will incur approximately 21 days of zero rate for mooring system upgrades to prepare for the cyclone season at an estimated cost of $28 million of which $26 million is capital expenditure.
The Eagle will incur approximately 21 days as well at zero rate for its special periodic survey as well as mooring system maintenance at an estimated cost of $19 million of which $17 million is expense.
For the remainder of fiscal 2016 our only additional planned out-of-service time is seven days for the Atwood Orca in the second quarter to complete its intermediate survey.
Contract drilling costs are expected to range from $455 million to $485 million for the fiscal year 2016 and $140 million to $160 million for the first quarter excluding reimbursables.
We are budgeting holding costs for the Atwood Admiral and Atwood Archer commencing November 2015 and July 2016 respectively.
These holding costs are approximately $35 000 per day per rig excluding DSME financing charges of approximately $15 000 per day per rig.
We will look to reduce these costs over time.
Additionally due to the idling of the Atwood Mako and Atwood Manta we will incur one-time costs for mobilization of these rigs employee severance and maintenance for a total of approximately $6.5 million for both rigs including an intermediate survey for the Manta which has been completed.
Upon completion of the idling we estimate cost at $9 000 per day per rig during the idling period.
The estimates for both the drillship holding costs and the idle jackup costs are included in our contract drilling cost guidance.
Depreciation is expected to remain at $43 million per quarter and total $175 million for the year assuming postponement of delivery of the Admiral and Archer as previously mentioned by Rob.
General and administrative expenses are expected to range from $17 million to $19 million for the fiscal first quarter.
Consistent with prior years our first quarter G&amp;A expenses skew higher than other quarters.
Full year G&amp;A expense will approximate $55 million to $57 million.
Interest expense should be approximately $18 million to $20 million per quarter net of capitalized interest.
We expect to pay cash interest of $80 million for the year.
We project our effective tax rate to be in the mid-teens for the full fiscal 2016.
However first quarter is expected to be higher due to our aforementioned planned out of service time.
From a balance sheet perspective capital expenditures are expected to total $71 million during the first quarter; however assuming our exercise of the Atwood Archer's first six month delay option by the end of calendar 2015 first quarter capital expenditures would be $221 million.
If exercised the rig's anticipated delivery date would change from June 30 2016 to December 31 2016.
As with the Admiral we would be allowed to hold the Archer at DSME's dockside until we take delivery.
Note that we retain further options to delay each rig by six months moving the Admiral to September 30 2016 and the Archer to June 30 2017.
For the full fiscal year capital expenditures including maintenance CapEx additions to our capital spares inventory and capitalized interest are expected to total $670 million with the current delivery date of the drillships under construction.
If we exercise the aforementioned Archer delay capital expenditures in fiscal 2016 will be reduced by $205 million to $465 million as certain milestone payments will move into the next fiscal year.
We will continue to use a mix of cash cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund these capital expenditures.
Our contract backlog was $1.6 billion as of September 30 with 66% of our available days contracted for fiscal 2016.
We estimate debt to remain at $1.7 billion during the fiscal year due again to the aforementioned anticipated exercise of the option to delay the Archer.
On average we project $480 million in funds undrawn on the revolving credit facility during the next two years spending the delivery and startup of both newbuild drillships.
We are increasing our cash on hand target to $125 million providing for an overall liquidity of $605 million.
In this dynamic market with uncertain timing from recovery we are looking at prudent ways to strengthen our balance sheet that are not too onerous for this company.
The revolving credit facility amendment we entered into in July provides increased flexibility upon raising unsecured capital and using such proceeds to pay down the credit facility.
Such a transaction would change our maximum leverage ratio and our minimum interest expense coverage ratio while reducing commitments under the credit facility by 70% of the amount paid down.
As this amendment has no expiration date we will monitor the markets for an opportunity to raise unsecured capital.
That concludes our prepared comments.
I will now turn the call over to Lindy for questions.
And we'll go first to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the good results and the backlog progress here.
Mark I presume that the consummating the Brazil contract would probably be the catalyst for hitting that high yield window assuming it's open.
Is that your line of thinking right now? Well assuming it's open is the key point there.
We certainly would like to get the transaction completed at some stage that transaction being an unsecured capital raise related to my prepared comments but that's purely dependant on the market opportunity being available to us.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But Ian your point's right.
I mean with greater confidence in the future cash flows of the company and our overall financial position no question we would have a bit of wind at our back when we went to capital markets.
And look we're not done adding to our backlog.
I know there has been a lot of talk about our industry and specifically about Atwood not having enough backlog in 2017.
I can assure you our entire team is working on this 24/7 spending a lot of time on the road.
So to the extent that we get additional backlog whether it's to the newbuild drillships or extensions on our active rigs clearly that strengthens our hand when we go to the public debt markets.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
Just a follow-up question on the jackups I mean there's obviously a lot of opacity there in terms of the contracting outlook for the year.
Can you put some context around your operating cost guidance and as it relates to keeping all five jackups in some state of readiness or are you looking at scenarios that involve cold-stacking jackups or no? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Our guidance that we gave in terms of costs for 2016 assume that the three active jackups that we've got working right now the Atwood Aurora Atwood Beacon and Atwood Orca would continue to work throughout the entire fiscal year.
Because it's prospective at this point to put the Mako and Manta back to work we only included the idling costs for those two rigs in our cost guidance.
Obviously there is upside for us to the extent that we get an earlier fixture and can to put those rigs back to work in the fiscal year but until we're able to ink and announce a contract we've assumed them idle in the cost guidance.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks Rob.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll go next to Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
So again same from me congratulations on what looks to be a prospectively at least nice contract.
I know you don't have all the details and aren't able to share that at this point but what I guess do you feel was the differentiating factor? Was that's purely a pricing situation availability timing asset quality all the above in terms of why you think you're able to prospectively win this contract? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as you can imagine in this market you pretty much have to hit on all cylinders to win the scarce amount of work that's out there.
And again I want to caution we're not done on this yet but we have come a long way in our discussions.
I do think as we've said on previous earnings calls that we offer the most technically-capable ultra-deepwater drillships that are on the market.
And I think that absolutely played a distinctive factor in the evaluation of the alternatives.
And you can imagine that there were plenty of alternatives that were offered to the client in this market.
We feel extremely good about our technical offering.
And obviously the performance of our two drillships the Atwood Advantage and the Atwood Achiever we were able to point to with confidence and say this is what you're going to get in terms of operating reliability and efficiency as well as safety performance when you contract an Atwood drillship.
So we think we really had an outstanding combination of all the commercial terms and availability as well as the most technically-capable offering.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That was all I had.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
And our next question comes from Dan Boyd with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just wanted to get a little more color on you from where you've seen cost savings come from.
Just to back into the guidance you provided really beyond the next quarter where you have more one-time costs it looks like you've been able to bring down rig level costs by a magnitude of about 15%.
So maybe you can just give us an update on where you are on the cost-cutting side.
And to any degree where you can give even more details in terms of rig level cost by region that'd be very helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Dan I mean I mentioned in my prepared comments that we really span the spectrum in terms of where we've gone after cost reductions.
And look we're not done yet.
As I mentioned some of these things are still in the process of being fully implemented.
So they are reflected in our guidance but they're not reflected in our actual financials that we've been able to release.
But look we've taken a good look at some of the big levers which include offshore labor and onshore rig support costs.
And those are costs that are really within Atwood's control because they're Atwood folks but a lot of what we get from the outside whether it's inspection services or maintenance services or any kind of other services that we purchase to support our rig operations our supply chain team has done a great job of meeting with these folks and really working out what is a fair deal in this difficult market.
So we're really looking across the board and we're not done yet.
We actually hope that we can even outperform the guidance.
We think we have an opportunity to do that.
But we're keenly focused on cost control and there isn't anything that isn't under scrutiny for us to run our business more efficiently for our clients.
Is it fair to say that the onshore costs are about as low as they can go and the additional savings or least the majority of the savings come from rig-level cost or is it still more to go all around? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you can never say that you're done.
I do think that the rig-level costs are clearly the big driver for the cost structure in this organization and frankly this industry.
And we're going to continue to look at ways that we can save money.
And look there are things that you can do just by being smarter in terms of how you schedule your maintenance and whether you insource some things versus outsource some things.
I mean those things don't involve job elimination or anybody taking a haircut on cost.
It's just doing things a little more smartly and maybe being a little more multifaceted in terms of what we ask our people to do.
And like I said I mean everybody in this organization is aligned with the need to operate more efficiently.
We've had tremendous support from our offshore personnel for these cost savings initiatives because they know that in order to be sustainable in this business and for our rigs to keep running we've got to be more competitive.
So it's been a really really positive team effort here at Atwood to actually run our business more efficiently and to try to keep all of our rigs working.
Okay.
And just last one just on the working capital it looks like receivables have grown here over the past couple quarters.
It's small but just want to understand what's going on there.
As I mentioned previously the primary increase quarter-to-quarter over $40 million is related to one receivable with one client and we simply have had a procedural delay in collecting those funds and expect to conclude that very shortly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we'll go next to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
And congratulations on some contract wins and progress on the under-construction rig.
My question is on the Mako Manta if we fast forward if the rig is down for let's say about a year or so both of those rigs would there be any reactivation cost involved? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think to get these rigs back to work Waqar we're thinking it's going to be about $1.5 million or so plus bringing some people on board and doing a mobilization.
So in the big scheme of things it's not a huge number especially given the low cost of keeping them idle but there will be some reactivation costs yes.
Okay.
And then on the Admiral or the Archer is there a reactivation cost as well at the end if the rigs stay built in the yard for about a year or so? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I mean that's what we're paying for to keep them dockside and make sure that all the equipment's ready to go on very short notice so no reactivation costs.
We've given some guidance of the $35 000 a day for basically keeping the rigs dockside making sure all the equipment is looked after et cetera but that is what gives us that capability to put these rigs out in the market on effectively a moment's notice and not have any additional costs.
Okay.
Now this negotiation for the newbuilds is in Brazil for contracts starting in third quarter 2017.
Should we assume that that's the earliest that one of the two rigs could start work or there is some expectations of earlier work as well for the other rig? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Waqar actually this is really good news for us because what we need is we need to get an anchor program so that we can deliver our rigs into the shipyard.
There is a lot of short-term jobs out there maybe a one well here or there that frankly we're not interested in crewing up and delivering a rig to go prosecute a single well program and then potentially have trouble following follow-on work.
So what we really need for our rigs is an anchor program.
I would argue to the extent that we're successful in concluding this contract and it starts in the third quarter 2017 we've got ample opportunity to put additional program in front of that.
So in some ways I think it's the latest possible date for whichever rig we put against this program rather than the earliest date because we will certainly look to get those rigs out of the shipyard as early as possible.
And with the benefit of an anchor program it opens up a lot of opportunities to take a well here or there on our way to that program.
Okay.
And you may have mentioned this and I may have missed.
When do you expect this negotiation to be resolved and a firm contract signed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mentioned in my comments that the final approvals may not occur till early calendar 2016 given the holiday season and just the month and a half before the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much appreciate that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks for the follow up just another fine-tuning question on the cost guidance the project costs for Osprey and Eagle that you detailed are those incremental to normal operating costs or did those encapsulate the total costs that will be capitalized and expensed for the quarter for those? They encapsulate Ian.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
I just had a follow up on the two newbuilds and their delivery schedules.
I know at some point I believe the cost to delay the rigs if you would exercise the final six months would go up to $50 000 a day in the shipyard.
And if that's correct then wouldn't it make more sense I mean couldn't you take delivery of the rig and actually if you needed to stack the rig for lower cost than that? And if that's the case would you be willing to do that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Look we've looked at all the alternatives for where you would put a completed rig and I should caution these rigs aren't fully completed yet because we still have some class work to do and some final integration testing that we want to stage closer to actual delivery.
But if you completed all of that and took delivery of the rig you can't do better than having it dockside taking advantage of shoreside power not having to put a marine crew on there et cetera.
So we've looked at the alternatives and this is absolutely the best from a cost perspective.
Okay thanks.
Just to add to that J.B.
we have the $50 000 and $15 000 of that is essentially a financing charge and the $35 000 is to keep the rig in ready-to-drill condition.
If it any stage we reach the conclusion of these option periods and actually take title to the rigs part of that cost would be reduced from the total of $50 000 obviously.
Oh okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
Just one question for me and realize Rob you guys have plenty of time to ramp up for this but given that the Admiral or Archer whichever one goes to Brazil will be a new geographic theater for Atwood&gt; So could you just speak to some of the ways that you might have to operate differently whether it be shore-based support or rig crewing? Just curious as to how you'll need to operate a little bit differently perhaps as you enter the Brazil market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well look that's a fair point.
I mean Atwood hasn't operated in Brazil before but I certainly have.
I managed a North and a South American business in a previous life with another driller.
And we have a lot of people within this company who have worked and managed in Brazil.
So we understand a lot of the particulars of operating in Brazil.
We know about the local content requirements.
We know that we're going to need an ample shore base et cetera.
And we'd taken a good look at what's required to get in that market when we provided our proposals to our client.
So we're not going into this without experience or without knowledge of what's required.
And we're fully equipped to operate in that market.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Rob.
That's it for me.
And it appears we have no questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
If there are no further questions we'd like to thank everybody for your time today and your interest in Atwood Oceanics.
And that does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.