Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lacy and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question and answer session towards the end of the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Andres Viroslav Vice President.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lacy and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's second quarter 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 84101872 Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s Press Release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Participants may discuss an offering of common stock by Independent Royalty Trust Inc.
a RAIT sponsored and managed multi-family equity REIT.
An amendment to the registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective.
These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the amendment becomes effective.
A copy of the amendment may be obtained by contacting Investor Relations at the contact information in the press release and is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
I am pleased to report another solid quarter for RAIT.
The results this quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2012 highlight our continuing progress.
AFFO increased 78% to $22.1 million.
Total revenues increased 22% to $58.6 million.
Operating income increased 126% to $14.7 million and net operating income from our portfolio of owned properties increased to $12.9 million or 7.4%.
We continue experiencing growth in all aspects of our business loan originations conduit loan sales and owned property occupancy and net operating income.
This growth plus stable credit performance within our loan portfolio remain the key drivers of our performance.
Loan production continues to increase.
During the quarter we originated $171 million of loans including $139 million of conduit loans $19 million of bridge loans and $13 million of mezzanine loans for the balance sheet.
Repayments in our commercial real estate loan book continue at a slow pace with only $3.7 million repaying during the quarter.
Our conduit business continues to grow even with the recent volatility and rates.
The sharp increase in the 10 year treasury rate in June along with the widening of spreads temporarily slowed the market and ultimately delayed the closing of the number of our loans.
Even in these conditions we closed over $139 million of conduit loans and sold almost $80 million of loans during the second quarter versus selling $41 million of loans during the first quarter 2013.
Currently the market seems to be stable and spreads are tightening.
Going forward we expect both loan closing and sales to continue increasing.
Our floating rate bridge lending business is also growing.
I am extremely pleased to highlight as announced yesterday we recently closed on our first floating rate securitization.
Once fully ramped the securitization will have $135 million of floating bridge loans collateralizing $101 million of non-recourse match funded bonds and 34 million of RAIT's equity.
These assets and liabilities and liabilities will remain consolidated during RAIT's balance sheet and our equity will array high teens return.
As we continue to grow our bridge lending pipeline we expect to be a repeat issuer of these floating rate securitizations.
As a result of the performance across our core businesses representing a 63% increase from the second quarter of 2012 dividend of $0.08.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
During the second quarter AFFO per share increased 28% to $0.32 up from $0.25 in the second quarter of 2012.
Compared to Q2 2012 investment interest income was up $2.5 million due to increased loan production while investment interest expense was down $1.2 million as our interest rate hedges continue to advertise according their term.
As a result net interest margin increased $3.7 million an 18% increase.
As we have highlighted on previous earnings calls for the remainder of 2013 we are expecting additional savings when compared to 2012 in our interest rate hedge costs associated with our CRE CDOs of approximately $1.5 million as $28 million of hedges will continue to amortize.
For the three-months period ended June 30th 2013 our loan production was $171 million with $139 million associated with our conduit business.
The new loans we are closing have underwritten debt yields ranging from 8% to 16%.
For mid portfolio perspective our credit statistics are stable with our non-accrual loans decreasing to $66 million or 5.7% of our loan portfolio.
We continue to maintain loan loss reserves at approximately 37% of our non-accrual loans and believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 9% or $2.4 million in Q2 2013 as compared to Q2 2012 due primarily to continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across our real estate portfolio.
The two properties that we acquired late in the second quarter of 2012 and the one property we acquired in October 2012 made up $900 000 of this increase quarter-over-quarter.
At the end of the second quarter 2013 we acquired a 328 unit apartment property in Durham North Carolina for $35.4 million in consideration.
RAIT held $33.8 million of first mortgage and mezzanine debt on the property and issued $1.6 million of limited partnership units to complete the transaction.
The transaction was done in a tax deferred manner for the seller and the purchase price was $1.5 million below its appraised value.
Accordingly we’ve recorded a gain on the transaction.
Additionally during the second quarter we agreed to sell a 239 unit apartment property in Little Rock Arkansas and recorded an estimated loss on sale of $1.3 million.
With respect to our loan portfolio the whole multifamily occupancy at the end of Q2 2013 was 92.6% up from 91.1% in Q2 2012.
Average office in retail occupancy at the end of the second quarter was 72% up from 70.6% in Q2 2012.
Rental rates also continue to improve within our multifamily business increasing to $727 per unit per month during the second quarter of 2013 just under a 5% increase in second quarter last year.
Lastly fee and other income is up $4.7 million in Q2 2013 as compared to Q2 2012 primarily due to the sale of $79 million of conduit loans which resulted in $4.5 million of profit during the quarter.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense for the second quarter is down $800 000 compared to the second quarter of last year due to lower outstanding debt and lower interest cost and $25 million of subordinated debt that flipped from a fixed rate of interest to a floating rate of interest during the second quarter of last year.
Property operating expenses for second quarter of this year increased by $1.4 million as compared to the second quarter of last year primarily due to the two properties we acquired late in the second quarter of 2012 and the one property we acquired in October 2012.
In our existing portfolio real estate tax expense is increased in the second quarter of this year due to property tax refunds that we received in the second quarter of last year.
The improvement in rental revenue and stability of our property operating expenses improved net operating income by $900 000 to $12.9 million for second quarter of this year a 7% increase since the second quarter of last year.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 17% of total revenue in the second quarter of this year as compared to 19% of total revenue in the second quarter of last year.
While we are growing a business platform we’re being mindful of our expenses and managing them effectively.
For the second quarter of 2013 operating income was $14.7 million a 126% increase over the second quarter operating income of $6.5 million last year.
That is an $8.2 million increase quarter-to-quarter.
As with prior quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for the second quarter of this year of $66 million or $0.94 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $76 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes and the fair value of our various financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during this quarter of this year.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all of our overcollateralization tests.
At June 30 2013 CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 126.8% above the required level of 116.2%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 117.7% above the required level of 111.07%.
These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year-end 2012.
As of June 30 2013 we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investment.
We ended the quarter with $468 million of capital available for investment comprised of $60 million cash on hand $238 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse lines $135 million of availability under our bridge loan facility and $35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
Scott this concludes the finance report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Before opening up the call for questions I’d like to provide a brief update regarding Independent Realty Trust a RAIT sponsored and managed multifamily equity REIT.
IRT has begun marketing efforts for an underwritten public offering of 4 million shares of its common stock with an expected price range between $10 and $11 per share.
IRT’s common stock has been approved for listing subject to final notice of issuance on the New York Stock Exchange MKT.
As this time I am limited in my ability to discuss this offering and direct you to IRT’s filed amendment as Andres has mentioned earlier.
At this time operator let’s open the call up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from the line of Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
Please proceed.
On the fair value can you tell us how much of the $76 million was Taberna and then maybe go into a little bit of discussion on the commercial real estate the CMBS business.
It looks like you sold only a fraction of which you originated and whether there was any impact on fair value there and where you’re seeing margins on that business? I’ll take the second part of your question first Jason if that’s okay.
The CMBS business as we stated we originated over $170 million of loans and we contributed to three different securitizations during the quarter.
One of those securitizations closed at the very end of the second quarter but we had to have our loans closed by I think it was the first week in June in order to be included in that securitization.
Every loan that we had closed up through that point in the beginning of June was sold.
There were no kick outs.
We weren’t holding anything further on our balance sheet at that time.
But then we continue to originate loans close loans through the end of June the last three weeks and that’s the difference between the $171 million that we originated and the $80 million that we sold.
We were very fortunate because the loans that we had originated and closed early in the quarter were all sold prior to the turmoil.
The loans that we closed at the end of June were priced accordingly as spreads widened.
So things worked out very well in that regard.
So hopefully that answers your question and Jim can take the first part.
Sure.
Jason Jim here.
The mark-to-market on the liabilities was just around $84 million and the mark-to-market on the assets and the Almanacs warrants was right around $8 million positive.
And let me just clarify.
I misspoke.
It was $139 million of conduit loans we originated.
The $170 million was all loans.
And so if I think about that right the right conclusion there is that there was no impact from the widening of the CMBS spreads in the second quarter and we shouldn’t expect any given that the last loans originated were four deals and they were priced property for the current environment.
So there is no impact expected in the third quarter.
That's the right conclusion? That’s correct.
Okay that’s great.
And then the CMBS deal already looks great on that.
I wasn’t expecting you to have such flexibility on the funded portion where you could continue to originate a ramp into it.
Does that change the way you think about that business developing? Is that a little bit better of a structure than you had anticipated at the beginning? Well it's a structure that we were working on from day one.
We were pleased that the rating agencies and the bond buyers were agreeable to it.
And it does as you say give us some flexibility.
Clearly the loans that we will fund to close out that pool will look exactly like and be rated similar to the loans that we closed before.
So while there is flexibility on the timing of the closing of the loans the loans are all going to look exactly like the existing pool.
Great and then one last one and I’ll jump out.
The fee and other income line Jim was there anything going on there? Maybe it could break it out because it looks like if I'm doing my math right which could be totally wrong $4.5 million of that fee and other income line was from the gain on the CMBS business.
Could you just give us a little bit more color on what the rest of it was? Of the fee and other line $4.5 million was from securitization business but just under $400 000 was associated with the management fees we get for managing the Taberna One securitization.
About $1 million was associated with property management fees and reimbursement income associated with our property management business and there is about $700 000 of other income comprised of some other asset managed fees as well as some settlements from legal transactions that occurred.
And our next question will come from David Walrod at Ladenburg.
Please proceed.
I wanted to clarify on the securitization business Scott in your prepared remarks you said that due to the rate volatility that several deals didn’t close before the end of the quarter.
Is that to imply then that July was a very active month as those deals closed in July or is July has the quarter started up more steady as you had planned it all along? July has been very active David.
Okay so some of the deals did close in July.
And then my next question was you raised capital common stock late in March.
How long did it take you to deploy that capital and what sort of a drag do you think it caused on your results this quarter.
You have to remember let me go back.
The capital it comes in and goes out as we sell loans into the securitization.
So the fact that we had I think Jim reported $60 million of available cash at the end of the quarter that you have to remember is after our third securitization that we contributed loans and two closed right at the end of June.
So the capital has been put to work throughout the quarter.
It was necessary for us have raised it.
And it's used and then it comes back.
That's just the way the CMBS business is.
We originate and we sell we originate we sell and that capital is necessary to continue to fund that business.
I just didn’t know sometimes it takes some time to get the capital deployed and that can cause temporary drag on earnings.
I would tell you that the capital was not fully deployed until near the end of the second quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Jon Evans with JWest LLC.
Please proceed.
I think last quarter you gave us statistic of you had $180 million kind of under contract didn't know if you'd close them.
Would you be willing to tell us what you got under contract or talk about the pipeline as you go into the September quarter? What I am comfortable telling you is that the pipeline is full it continues to grow and we have the same view of the loan origination business? I did say $180 million; we got $171 million notwithstanding the turmoil.
It would have been more and we believe that the second quarter we should continue to see similar growth for the third quarter.
So when you say similar growth are you talking about similar growth sequentially? Because you went from $90 million to $170 million.
Are you going to see that kind of sequential growth? Are just talking about $170 million again? Beyond the $170 million.
We believe that the third quarter loan originations will be higher than they were in the second quarter that we will continue growing.
You have to remember and I know it sounds like I am hedging it's a lumpy business.
And when you have situations.
No I get that.
You missed it by $10 million but it moved into July.
But can you give us a sense of; it would be helpful if you could us any kind of range or anything? Would you hope to grow 5% or 10% sequentially if you are successful? We all know.
John if you are not going to hold me to it I will tell you that there is $265 million in the third quarter that we have under application to close in the third floor.
Whether you close them all we all know that there is issues that happen in the market and things wiggle.
The other question I have for you is can you talk a little bit about your projected free cash flow? So you made that statement in many slides the $0.93 to a $1.23.
You didn't update that? Can you just give us a sense; are you still comfortable with that projection for this year with those two?  Sure this is Jim Sebra.
We're in process of getting that slide putting that presentation out over the next couple of days.
Yes we're comfortable kind of still in that kind of projection range.
And then the other question is I understand there is a lag to how you deploy the money and that you have to deploy the money and then you have to start earning.
You get the fees immediately but then you have to start earning on the asset especially on the mez piece that you keep or the residual IO.
Can you help us understand; let's just assume you did $1 kind of in the middle or the lower end of that range.
How do we think about the payout of a dollar on a year-end in projected cash flow? Because if you look at your guidance I know you want to be very conservative.
But how should we think about the payout matriculating over time? We right now we're at approximate 65% payout ratio of our free cash in the second quarter.
And the 65% obviously is a level that the Board has approved.
They look at it each quarter and we expect our free cash to continue to increase.
But I guess the question I didn't pose it very well I apologize.
Do you think the 65% increases or do you think you stay just kind of in that 65% range and then the increases that we'll get is as the business increases.
Again that’s a decision that the Board makes on a quarterly basis looking at the business at that moment and then also forward.
So I can’t really sit here today and tell you what the board is going to do at the end of the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
But we have had it pretty steady in the mid-60s payout ratio area and we do expect free cash flow to increase.
So I don’t know how I can give you any more of the definitive answer.
That’s helpful.
And then the last question I’d like to ask you is you’ve seen a lot of progress on your multifamily and obviously your occupancy has stayed pretty strong at 92.6.
We’ve seen steady increases in your average effective rate per square foot.
It’s kind of just continue to slowly go up and you’re at 727 now in multifamily.
Do you expect that kind of continue to increase as we go through the next 12 months or can you just talk a little bit? I know this businesses very regional number one and you have rents rolling over constantly.
So can you give us any kind of sense of your thoughts on rates there? I love the multifamily business.
I think that there is still room for rental increases within our portfolio.
Most of the properties in our portfolio are in what I would refer to as secondary markets.
There is a lack of new construction in those markets.
Most of the new construction you hear about is in the primary coastal markets.
We’re in downtown urban areas.
We are still seeing population growth.
You still have a situation where homeownership is under pressure.
When you put all that together you have the dynamic for continued stable high occupancy rates and landlords having the ability to push rents.
So we believe that there are still room for us to continue pushing rents in this 5% range per year and don’t see any reason that it should stop at least for the next couple of years.
It’s hard to look out beyond that period of time.
No I understand.
And I do apologize because I do have one last question.
You made a big strive this quarter sequentially on your office occupancy.
I know that’s been a little bit of a tough area for you.
Can you talk a little bit about continuing to see any kind of momentum on the office side? We’re seeing good trends.
There has been some momentum.
It takes an awful long time to actually source and then negotiate and enter into an office lease but what we’re seeing is we’re seeing increased demand and tenants putting out RFPs and brokers bringing us tenants.
That has increased over the last year and it looks to continue increasing.
But again that like the loan closing business is a little bit different than leasing a multifamily building.
That again is a lumpy business because the tenants take so much space.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
With respect to your hybrid CMBS and we’ll try not to use the three letter work CLO if you'd prefer because I detect you’d rather call it a floating rate CMBS which we will comply with.
In addition to be in non-recourse match funded I'm assuming you are all in interest expense here maybe some benefit you may have some pick up relative to the bank lines.
If I’m correct and if I’m not please tell me so but if I am could you just approximate in BTS how much all in interest cost saving there might be under this structure versus using bank financing? Let me talk about the warehouse line that we use.
That’s LIBOR plus 250 at a 50% leverage.
The floating rate CMBS liabilities are LIBOR plus 185 at 75% leverage.
So it’s a significant pick up.
And when you say leverage you mean advanced rare right…  Advanced I would say… Leverage of one to one right… We’re one to one on the bank line.
We’re three to one on the CMBS.
Which is huge and so their fees on both sides but we can look at L plus 185 and L plus 250 and pretty much figure out there should some net benefit I assume in actual interest cost.
Yes but Jim is also now correcting me.
It’s LIBOR plus 200 on the bank line not 250.
Okay.
So it maybe more of a factor of enhanced non-recourse leverage the necessarily basis point pickup? And let’s not lose sight of the fact that it is non-recourse match funded.
There are no mark-to-markets.
There is no OC or IC test.
This is great financing for these types of loans.
It truly is a better model because we all know what happened with CMBS CDOs and the commercial mortgage REITs and OA that had whole loans on bank credit facilities.
Some are not with us anymore.
So I applaud you for the structure and I think it means a lot for our business here in commercial mortgage REITs going forward that we’ve got this kind of funding.
My last thing I said I'd be brief.
On the conduit this is probably nitpicky but we have had some obviously pricing dislocations going everywhere in credit assets.
So I’m looking at year-to-date your fees as a percentage of loan principal sold and I don’t know whether just call that fee margin or gain on sale margin whatever the right terminology but year-to-date you are 6.4% of principal and the second quarter worked out about 5.7% Do you see any trend there or what for modeling purpose what would be a comfortable range of say fee margin as a percentage of loans sold looking forward over the next 6 to 9 months.
I'd rather be conservative then aggressive? Well we’ve always maintained that normalized that the gain on the sale should be 3 to 4 points.
And again if you recognized that the warehousing of these loans is three to one you’re still looking at 12% or 12 points on the equity piece and that’s why we love this business.
We’re doing smaller loans as we have always discussed and as such there is much competition and accordingly we’ve been able to price them a little bit wider.
I don’t think that will stay that way forever but we’re still able to maintain those margins.
And you’re actually beating your long term expectation but overtime you’re saying you would expect it to kind of narrow back down to maybe 300 to 400 basis points? Yes that’s correct.
Ladies and gentleman this concludes the question and answer portion for today’s call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to you Scott Schaeffer for closing comments.
Well thank you and thanks again for joining us and we look forward to sharing our progress with your next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may all disconnect.
Good day everyone.