Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the quarter three 2013 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call hosted by Andres Viroslav.
My name is Mina and I am the event coordinator.
(Operator Instructions) And now I would like to hand over to Andres.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mina and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 79797103.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report another solid quarter for RAIT.
Our results this quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2012 demonstrate continuing improvement in all aspects of our business.
I would like to start with some highlights.
AFFO increased 54% to $23 million.
Total revenue increased 20% to $62 million.
Operating income increased 88% to $18 million.
In addition net operating income from our portfolio of owned properties increased to $14 million or 13% over the third quarter of 2012.
We're reporting growth in revenue categories net interest margin rental revenue and fee income.
This growth plus stable credit performance within our existing loan portfolio remain the key drivers of our performance.
Loan production of $167 million for the quarter was flat when compared to the second quarter of 2013 and this was caused mostly by the volatility and uncertainty surrounding long-term interest rate.
However we experienced the sharp increase in quarterly loan production from only $22 million originated during the third quarter of 2012.
As we look forward now that some of the uncertainty has been removed from the market.
We are expanding our loan origination team and expect loan origination volumes to continue trending upward over time.
During the quarter we sold $180 million of conduit loans into three different fixed rate CMBS transactions and we closed the $135 million floating rate securitization for our bridge lending business.
Bridge loan production has been steadily increasing and we are beginning to aggregate loans for our second floating rate securitization.
During the third quarter our subsidiary Independence Realty Trust an apartment property equity REIT completed its underwritten public offering of 4 million shares of IRT common stock for $8.50 per share raising gross proceeds of $34 million.
And we listed IRT common stock on the NYSE MKT.
RAIT owns approximately 5.8 million shares representing 60% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
A RAIT subsidiary is IRT's external advisor for which we've received advisory fees and we also received distributions on our IRT common stock.
IRT recently closed on its first acquisition since the capital raise and has entered into agreements to purchase additional properties effectively deploying all of the capital raised from the public offering.
In addition IRT has entered into a $20 million acquisition line of credit with Huntington National Bank.
As a result of the performance across our core businesses RAIT's board announced our fifth consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.15 per share for the third quarter of 2013 representing a 67% increase from the third quarter of 2012 dividend of $0.09.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Sebra to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
During the third quarter AFFO per share increased 10% to $0.33 up from $0.30 in the third quarter of 2012.
Compared to Q3 2012 investment interest income was up $2.4 million due to increased loan production while interest expense was down $100 000 primarily due to reduced hedging cost offset by increased interest expense associated with our lending activity.
During the third quarter we completed a floating rate CMBS securitization and issued $101 million of investment grade securities to finance $135 million of floating rate bridge loans.
RAIT retained $34 million of equity in this transaction.
As a result net interest margin increased $2.3 million a 10% increase.
For the three months ended September 30 2013 our loan production was $167.5 million with a $130 million associated with our conduit loan business.
RAIT's originated $433 million of loan during the nine-month period ended September 30 and $285 million of loan in the nine-month period ended September 30 of last year.
The new loans we are closing have underwritten debt yields ranging from 8% to 16%.
As we've discussed on previous calls the interest rate hedges in our RAIT I and RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see approximately $3.9 million of reduced hedging costs next year as $89 million of notional expires according to its terms.
From a portfolio perspective our credit statistics are stable with our non-accrual loans decreasing to $45.3 million or 4.1% of our loan portfolio.
During the quarter we completed the workout on two loans totaling $20 million and those assets are now performing.
Our current loan loss reserves are $23 million or 51% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 11% or $2.8 million in Q3 2013 as compared to Q3 last year due primarily to five properties we acquired since the third quarter of last year as well as continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across our real estate portfolio.
The five properties we acquired made up $2 million of this increase quarter-over-quarter.
The remaining $800 000 of increase is due to increased occupancy and improvement in rental rates within our multi-family portfolio.
With respect to our portfolio as a whole multi-family occupancy at the end of the quarter was 92.5% up from 90.2% in Q3 2012.
Average office and retail occupancy was stable at approximately 72% at quarter end.
Rental rates also continued to improve within our multi-family portfolio increasing to $753 per unit per month during Q3 2013 just under an 8% increase since third quarter of last year.
Lastly fee and other income is up $5.1 million this quarter as compared to Q3 of last year primarily due to the sale of $180.7 million of conduit loans which resulted in approximately $7.2 million of profit during the current quarter.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense for Q3 2013 is down $200 000 compared to the third quarter of last year due to lower outstanding debt this quarter compared to last year.
Property operating expenses for Q3 2013 increased by $1.3 million as compared to the third quarter of last year primarily due to the five properties we acquired since the third quarter of last year.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $13.7 million an increase of $1.6 million or 13% from third quarter of last year.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 16% of total revenue in Q3 2013 as compared to 19% of total revenue in the Q3 2012.
We continue to manage our expenses as we continue to grow our business.
For the third quarter of 2013 operating income was $17.7 million an 88% increase over the third quarter of last year operating income of $9.4 million.
This is an $8.3 million increase quarter-to-quarter.
As with prior quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for Q3 2013 of $17 million or $0.24 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $24 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes in the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during the third quarter.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all of our overcollateralization tests.
CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116.2%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of a 118% above the required level of 111.7%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to yearend 2012.
As of September 30 2013 we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investments.
We ended the quarter with $116 million of cash on hand primarily due to the cycle of our conduit loan business plus the increased IRT's cash balance from the public offering.
Our intra-quarter cash balances are generally lower as we fund conduit loans while our ending quarterly cash balances are higher as we receive proceeds in from the sale those conduit loan II securitizations.
We ended the quarter with $570 million of capital available for investment comprised of a $117 million of cash on hand $219 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse funds $150 million of availability under our bridge loan facility $49 million of availability from our July floating rate securitization and $35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
I think at this time operator we'd like to open up the call for questions.
And your first question is coming from Steve DeLaney JMP Securities.
Jim as you ran through he numbers very quickly I wanted to ask you about the [ph] Worcester funding capacity.
I've got most of the details what was your total number of funding capacity? Total cash available for investment is $570 million.
So I think everything is so clear in the press release with the way you laid out the only thing I wanted to ask about was in the real estate performance table it looks like your multifamily and office properties from an occupancy standpoint are performing very well.
Retail seems to be the weak area there.
And I know Sam Zell quoted this week at a conference in Chicago just talking about the challenges to retail.
Do you see that drop in occupancy from 73 to 69 is that sort of broad indication of what's going with retail or is it possibly just idiosyncratic to a few properties that you have? Just curious how you feel about that segment versus the other two within your real estate portfolio? Steve I believe it's more idiosyncratic.
Our retail portfolio was not that large a tenant here or there makes a big difference regarding occupancy.
We have had some leasing success but at the same time we've lost a couple of tenants.
And as you can see over the last few quarters it's been relatively stable.
So we actually expect going forward that that occupancy will now start creeping up and that's we were projecting internally.
And if we look at the performance numbers that you've had with gross rental income up 11% year-over-year multifamily per unit up 8% and the positive occupancy trends.
As you look out into 2014 maybe we should just talk about gross rental income because that's the big bucket the 11%.
So how do you feel about that going forward as far our modeling purposes? It was 2013 sort of a breakout year and as you see it and should we reel that back to something a little more conservative sort of on a 2014 over 2013 outlook? We should reel it back a little bit.
The 8% increase in average rents I think was somewhat unique to 2013 and I think we experienced the same number in 2012.
But we're not going to be able to do that every year.
And what we're looking at internally is a 3% to 5% increase continuing for 2014.
Your next question is coming from the line of Jason Stewart Compass Point.
Scott last quarter you gave us some indication of what the pipeline looked like and I think it was $265 million or so.
I was hoping you could give us an update on where you thought that stood today? And maybe a little color if the market has changed with this recent decline in rates.
How that's impacted things? Well if you remember Jason I gave it reluctantly because it's a chumpy-lumpy business.
And that's what it looked like at the beginning of the quarter and then as interest rates moved around and with the volatility we were able to close a $167 million in the quarter.
The pipeline as we look forward is very strong.
We have seen an uptick in loan opportunities for the fourth quarter.
But at this point and at this time I think it's really I'll say inappropriate for me to give any real guidance on numbers just because we're only 30 days into the quarter and it's a very volatile business.
But I will tell you that we're seeing opportunities continue to increase.
And then if listened and wrote notes correctly it sounded like you said you were building a portfolio for your second floating rate transactions but it sounded like you still had some funding capacity left in 2013-FL1 is that right? And if so could you give us an idea of how much was left on that one? That's correct.
As of now we have about $20 million and we expect that to be funded within the next couple of weeks.
And we are actually working underwriting on loans that will be aggregated now for the next securitization.
And that will probably be a 2014 event correct? At this point it probably will be yes.
One other question and then I'll jump back into the queue.
The fee income and other income line items excluding the gain on sale from the loans originated and sold.
Was there any other one-time items' or moving parts to that one item? No there wasn't Jason.
And then could you give us just the number of loans originated and carried over the quarter so originated but not sold that you would sell in 4Q if there are any? It's a small number and that's why our cash balance was so large at the end of the quarter because there was a securitization that happened right at the end of the September that we sold most of the loans into at that point.
I don't know off-hand the number of loans but we can get that for you.
Your next question is coming from the line of David Walrod from Ladenburg.
A quick housekeeping question and then one more conceptual.
On the housekeeping the other income expense line was about $4 million.
Can you give us some color as to what went through there this quarter? That was expenses that were accrued relative to the IRT business when it was a non-traded REIT.
And since we changed direction into the IPO and listed the shares we decided to write-off those accrued expenses in the third quarter.
And then more conceptually you added a piece of property in your real estate portfolio.
Can you talk about your desire to grow that in the RAIT vehicle? And how the decisions are made as far as to put properties into RAIT or into IRT? IRT will be the third-party acquisition multifamily vehicle going forward.
RAIT will not be out bidding on unrelated multifamily assets.
The assets that RAIT did acquired during the quarter were all assets that RAIT had an interest in already either a preferred equity interest or some other type of loan interest where the borrower told us that they were interested in selling the property and we were able to negotiate a purchase price that we felt was attractive at the time and keep the property from going to market.
Your next question is coming from the line of Brian Gonick from Senvest.
Can you tell us what cash flow per share was in the quarter? It was $0.23 per share Brian.
It was $0.23? $0.23 yes.
So there was basically $0.10 of non-cash items is that right? Between AFFO of $0.33 and $0.23 yes.
So do you expect that Q4 will be sequentially higher because your guidance is $0.90 to $0.95 for the year right on cash flow per share which will imply a range of $0.25 to $0.30 for the quarter? We're comfortable with the guidance that we've given Brian.
And 60% on the dividend payout ratio or would it be higher there because this quarter it looks like its 65%? Well it's been 65% for a couple of quarters.
And as I say on every conference call that it will be up to the board as a whole to determine what we do in the fourth quarter.
But I believe it has been at 65% for at least a couple of quarters now.
And the IRT expenses the $3million in change the other expense you had in the quarter that's a non-recurring item right.
Did that impact cash flow in the quarter or was that a non-cash write-off? It was a non-cash write-off of which expenses that we had incurred and we had capitalized to accrued I guess capitalized starting in 2011 when we started with the IRT as a non-traded REIT.
There are no further questions.
And now I hand the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for further closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thanks for joining us today.
And we look forward to discussing our next quarter's progress with you after the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you very much Mr.
Schaeffer.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
And thanks for joining.
Have a very good day.
Thank you.