Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2014 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call.
My name is Liam and I will be your operator for today.
(Operator Instructions) And now I'd like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Liam and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust third quarter 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 88214660.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are reporting a quarter of continued growth in revenue net interest margin rental income and net operating income.
Cash available for distribution or CAD was a loss of $395 000 for the quarter as a result of the previously announced $21.5 million charge related to the settlement agreement reached with the SEC pertaining to Taberna Capital Management.
Excluding this one-time settlement charge CAD would have been $0.26 per share for the quarter.
We are updating our previously issued CAD guidance to a range of $0.71 to $0.76 per share for the full year of 2014.
RAIT's board declared a third quarter common dividend of $0.18 per share and issued guidance on the fourth quarter dividend of at least $0.18 per share.
During the third quarter we funded $256 million of newly originated loans consisting of $102 million of bridge loans and $154 million of conduit loans.
This volume was partially offset by $46 million of commercial loan repayments and $120 million of conduit loan sales in the third quarter.
During the first nine months of the year we originated $727 million of loans with more than 50% of these originations weighted towards floating rate bridge loan which create recurring quarterly interest receipts and more stability to our earnings.
Fixed rate conduit loan sales during the quarter of $120 million contributed $3.5 million to our quarterly fee income.
In the beginning of October we sold an additional $96.5 million of fixed rate loans which generated $3.1 million of income at the start of the fourth quarter.
Yesterday we closed FL3 our third and to this point largest floating rate securitization.
FL3 is a $219 million floating rate CMBS transaction that provides match funded non-recourse financing for our own balance sheet bridge loan investments.
We issued $181 million of bonds at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 1.75% which represents an 82.6% advance rate.
RAIT retained $38 million of the subordinated interest.
FL3's advance rate and weighted average cost both improved from FL2 which was closed this past April.
Since entering the floating rate CMBS market we financed $550 million of first mortgage bridge loans and participations.
Going forward we'll continue to access the source of non-recourse financing for our balance sheet bridge loans.
And we've already begun ramping our fourth floating rate securitization FL4.
Our owned real estate continues to provide stability to the overall portfolio.
Rental income grew through increased rent rates and property acquisitions primarily in our multifamily portfolio.
The multifamily portfolio experienced year-over-year same-store average rent per unit growth of 6.6%.
We also acquired two retail assets in Michigan which were sourced through our retail focus property manager Urban Retail.
We expect to opportunistically acquire more retail assets which when financed will generate an immediate double-digit return on our invested equity.
Our subsidiary Independence Reality Trust an apartment property equity REIT which we externally advise and consolidate acquired three properties during the third quarter and now owns 6 470 apartment units.
RAIT currently owns approximately 7.3 million shares representing 28% IRT's outstanding common stock.
Before I turn the call over to Jim I'd like to update you on the settlement with the SEC.
As previously announced we have reached an agreement in principal to resolve a non-public SEC investigation concerning Taberna Capital Management RAIT's investment advisor subsidiary.
We expect to follow written settlement to occur on or before December 31 2014.
We recorded the associated $21.5 million settlement charge in the third quarter and we've begun the process of selling the remaining Taberna legacy business and are also targeting a yearend completion for that process.
We look forward to beginning 2015 with these matters behind us.
And at this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
For the third quarter CAD was a loss of $395 000 which included a $21.5 million dollar charge for the previously announced settlement with the SEC.
This settlement charge had a $0.26 per share impact to CAD.
Therefore CAD excluding the effect of this one-time charge was $0.26 per share.
The $21.5 million settlement charge is recorded in the line item called other income and expense in our consolidated income statement.
Compared to the third quarter of 2013 net interest margin was up $1.2 million due to increased loan production while investment interest income decreased primarily due to reduced hedging cost and reduced interest expense from lower outstanding debt during the year.
As we have discussed previously the interest rate hedges of our RAIT I and rate RAIT II securitization are continuing to burn off.
Based on current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $1.1 million of reduced hedging cost during the fourth quarter when compared to fourth quarter of 2013 as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
When looking forward based on current one month LIBOR forward curve we are expecting to see additional hedge savings of $8 million in 2015 when compared to the 2014 hedge cost.
From a credit perspective our CRE non-accrual loans increased to $40 million and represent about 3% of our loan portfolio at quarter end.
The increase resulted from one $10 million mezzanine loan that entered to workout during the quarter.
Our current loan loss reserves are $15.7 million or 39% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate for future losses.
Rental income increased by 43% or $12.6 million in Q3 as compared to Q3 last year.
This increase is primarily a result of $11 million of rental income associated with 20 properties acquired since September 30 2013.
The remaining $1.6 million increase is due to a continued improvement in rental rates across the same-store properties.
Lastly fee and other income was $7.8 million in the third quarter of 2014 and was comprised of the following items: $3.5 million of CMBS loan sales profitability; $3.6 million of property management revenue; $308 000 of asset management fees; and $349 000 of other general fee income.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense this quarter is up $3.8 million compared to third quarter last year due primarily to $2.2 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance the 20 properties we acquired since September 30 2013.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $1.6 million resulted from our issuances of $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014.
Property operating expenses increased by $5.4 million this quarter compared to the third quarter of last year.
This increase is the result of the same 20 properties acquired since September 30 2013.
Overall the net operating income of our real-state portfolio was $20.9 million this quarter an increase of $7.2 million from Q3 of last year.
On a same-store basis NOI this quarter increased 5.3% from the third quarter of last year.
We are reporting a GAAP net loss for Q3 of $23.3 million or $0.28 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $10 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments and the non-recurring charge of $21.5 million settlement with the SEC.
The primary driver of the negative changes in the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2014 the effect of which narrows that gap between our adjusted book value and GAAP book value.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of CAD is more indicative of our financial performance.
As previously disclosed we are actively engaged in exiting the legacy Taberna business and have a goal of completing it before yearend.
This will remove the volatility in our net income created by the changes in the fair value of financial instruments associated with Taberna.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all over-collateralization tests.
CRE I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 120% above the required level of 112%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to the yearend 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity in capital available for investments.
We accessed the capital markets again this quarter through a $72 million offering of 7.125% senior notes and raised net proceeds of $69 million.
Additionally Independence Realty Trust our consolidated sub completed an $8 million common share offering and raised additional $73 million of net proceeds in the third quarter.
RAIT externally manages IRT and currently owns about 28% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Thank you Jim.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we have a question from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
I was wondering if you could discuss recent market volatility the competitive outlook and whether you've seen any spread widening or increase in loan yields.
And if possible if you could distinguish between the CMBS conduit market in which you participate as well as the transitional loan market? I would be happy to and thank you.
There has been volatility as we all know.
We were very fortunate in that our program to securitize loans with multiple partners relatively quickly after we close them put us in a good spot because when the volatility hit and spreads widened early in October we had securitized or sold all of our fixed rates loans all but one at that point.
So that spread widening that happened in early October really didn't affect us at all.
Really what it did was it gave us a little bit of support in increasing our own spreads on the asset generation side.
But since then spreads have come back down somewhat and we feel that we're in a good spot going forward with the loans that we have closed and that are in our pipeline to close over the next couple of months.
As far as the floating rate program goes again spreads widened a little bit there but not anywhere near what the volatility was.
In the fixed rate program the 175 overspread on our liabilities that we just issued is within a few basis points of where we had targeted as when we were generating the loans.
I mean its all-in going to provide a 20%-plus return in year one on our remaining $38 million.
While there was a little bit of spread movement not anything significant that we were concerned about.
But again things have come down but you never know what the next month or two will bring.
Did I answer your question or was it another part.
On the B note side and mezzanine lending side can you comment on that execution whether you view those products as attractive? And also if you've any pull back from funds or specialty lenders in that space? No we haven't seen any pull back.
For RAIT I don't find them particularly a good investment.
The returns that are available in the marketplace today I don't think again for RAIT are commensurate to the risk.
And we're doing mezz lending but only as an add-on to our senior loan production.
We're not out doing any standalone mezz.
So we'll do it if it helps us win a senior loan that we like but that's the only way.
Can you also comment on your current investment capacity following the securitization as well as how you approach issuing capital and also how you view parameters around financial leverage? Sure.
We want to issue capital obviously as needed in the best way for the company and in a non-dilutive way.
It's one of the reasons that in the third quarter we accessed the baby-bond market and did a debt offering because we felt that the yields on the debt that were available to us made sense rather than going out and issuing more common at that time.
Our capacity is we feel we're good through the end of the year to fund the pipeline that we have.
Obviously FL3 and then the securitizations on the fixed rate side at the end of the third quarter and early in October in the fourth quarter helped our capital position greatly.
So as we look forward we think we're good for the next couple of months.
Obviously if the pipeline grows dramatically we'll have to reassess that but that's where we are.
On financial leverage just what are some parameters to think about? We have a variety of credit facilities available that maxed our leverage at 80%.
We certainly don't plan to go too close to that but that's the kind of what we think about in terms of total cap.
And your next question comes from Jason Stewart from Compass Point.
If we could just talk about FL3 and I think in the release you said the total return or net yield was pretty similar to FL2.
And I'm just trying to think through the way that your assumptions are working there because we did obviously have leverage tick up a bit which is great to see.
Should we think that you're expecting to see quicker prepayment activity slightly lower yields in that and will it get you to the same type of return that you had in FL2? Well I believe the return is greater in FL3.
I don't know that we said that it was the same as FL2.
We said it was double-digit return.
Again the overall IRR will depend on the term that these loans on the asset side stay outstanding.
But the year one the loan is full.
We believed they will stay out for at least the first year and we're targeting a 20% plus return on that equity again for year one.
The securitization market is an interesting place.
Obviously we want to leave enough dollars out on the subordinated side that we hold to make it meaningful.
I have no interest in having $1 million invested at 50% I'd rather have $38 million invested at 20%.
So it's always a balancing act.
And you take the pool to the rating agencies; they tell you where the different charge is cut.
You go out you talk to the bond buyers and they say we'll buy some of the AAA if we can get some of the single A and you work through it in order to get the best execution.
And in FL3 that meant that we would sell down to a 17% give or take 17% subordination level.
But we're very comfortable there.
Its match funded there is no triggers there is no mark-to-market.
And again it's generating a healthy return on a meaningful amount of rate investment.
So again we think it was a better execution from the bond side than FL2 just because spreads were a little bit lower and we have a little bit more but not dramatically more leverage.
So the structure that's benefiting you is going to drop to the bottomline that's not being offset by lower yield.
No.
It is dropping to the bottomline.
And then on FL4 I'm guessing since you've already start funding there was no pre-funding for FL3 but does that give you any sense there that we should be thinking about timing for FL4 or if you want to give us volume guidance I'd take that too? No.
I don't want to give you volume guidance because I'm always wrong.
We're looking to the end of the first quarter to do FL4.
And then just a bigger picture question.
Scott when you're thinking about being opportunistic in the Retail Center acquisition.
Could you just give us a little bit more color? I think you mentioned you expect it to be double-digit return at purchase.
Does that mean that's the cap rate or you think you're buying these below market to the point where -- just some more context about how you're thinking about the return and maybe the size of that opportunistic strategy? Well I never want to say that we're buying below market because we have intelligent savvy sellers that we're dealing with.
But we're buying off market.
So these were not assets that were out listed with a broker and widely marketed it.
It's a relationship that we've had for a long time with the seller and were able to put together a deal that we felt made a lot of sense for RAIT.
We're very high on the Urban Retail platform.
We think there is a lot of value there in just a historical knowledge and relationships.
And that there are assets in the retail space that you can acquire and it's very similar to what we've done with IRT.
We can acquire assets at cap rates that make good sense 8.5% 9% 9.5%.
We're even seeing some in the 10% range because it's not a property type that masses our chasing right now.
And if you do that and you do it intelligently in markets where there's not going to be any new construction no one is building malls or strip centers at this point.
And if you're in a stable residential area where the property will be supported in the future and you can again buy them at those cap rates and then finance them at today's cost of 4.5% or even less in some instances you generate very very healthy recurring returns.
And I've always been an investor-type person that I'm interested in what I'm generating when I go in.
I don't like trying to look out 10 years and figure out what my reversion is going to be and saying that it's a good IRR.
I'd much rather know that I'm getting 12% on the first year and then I can grow that and I'll let the reversion take care of itself in the future.
So that's how we're looking at this.
These are our assets that are well situated in very good stable markets where there is not going to be any new reconstruction.
The retailers want to be there.
And we can acquire mid number or at prices when levered and levered reasonably.
We're talking about 60% to 65% leverage that generate very nice cash-on-cash returns from the get-go.
And your next question is from Steve Delaney from JMP Securities.
So Jason beat me to the retail center question but good for him on that.
I'm going to just take that one level further though and can you comment on the occupancy tells us these are not transitional properties but do you consider them based on like the rent rolls or do you consider these to be like stabilized and kind of optimal at the time or are there things that Urban Retail can do to further enhance the cash flows here say over the next couple of years? On the current portfolio there is not a whole lot that Urban can do because they were managing these before we acquired them.
Got it.
I'd be remised to say that they can do a whole lot because if they could why didn't they do it for the previous owner.
But we have identified a pipeline of additional opportunities that we may or may not move on that there are properties in that pipeline that Urban does not manage that we do feel through some increases in occupancy but more just remerchandising the tenant makeup that there is a real upside in those assets.
So as we continue to move this process forward we will be acquiring properties presumably that there will be some value add associated with it.
And the reason I asked about sort of the property status was to kind of get next step to the $35 million of property-level debt.
And I was curious was that debt that was in place previously that you stepped into or was that new debt that you placed on the property? It was new debt that we put on.
And I don't if you can comment on this but we've seen one other commercial finance company Scott who is both a lender and an opportunistic investor.
And because they were active in the conduit space they are generating some additional revenue by.
They found a property they want to own they will actually write the conduit loan themselves.
And I don't want you to comment on it specifically with this but is that ability since you are both an equity investor and a lender when you look at the overall kind of integrated strategy is it -- or do you guys look at the opportunity to write your own conduit loans on the properties you acquire? Yes we do and we will.
And your next question comes from Brian Gonick from Senvest.
Can you tell us how much the hedge savings will be in Q4 of this year compared to Q3 of this year? Give me one second I'll find that.
You said it was $8 million for next year or like $0.10 a share it looks like? Brian do you have any other questions.
That's it.
It should be about $800 000.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We're excited to continue executing on our strategy and look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
And thanks for joining our call today and your continued interest in RAIT.
Thank you.
And thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have great day.