Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katrina and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to you today for today’s call Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed.
Thank you Katina and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our Web site at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 14817520.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres and good morning everyone.
RAIT is a hybrid REIT with a multi-strategy approach to investing based on commercial real estate lendings along with direct ownership and management of commercial real estate properties.
This approach delivers diversification to the portfolio blending the higher yielding lending business with the stability and recurring income stream from owning and managing properties.
Our investing approach is supported by our platform which now comprise of over 725 employees managing over $4.3 billion of commercial real estate assets.
With most of the challenges faced in 2014 now behind us we’re looking forward to continue growth in all aspects of our business in 2015.
We have exited the remaining Taberna business line by selling our collateral managing contracts in the fourth quarter and our residual Taberna bond holdings early in the first quarter of 2015.
Due to the sale of these assets we have deconsolidated the two remaining Taberna CDOs form RAIT’s balance sheet.
This deconsolidation was the primarily driver of the non-cash GAAP loss recorded in the fourth quarter and should result in a more transparent and less volatile financial presentation going forward.
Let me talk about the results CAD for the full fourth quarter was $0.26 and $0.71 for the year a 14% increase over 2013 CAD when adding back the onetime cost of SEC settlement.
During 2014 we experienced progress in our core business lines and our lending business gross loan originations were $983 million a 63% increase over 2013 levels.
As we anticipated competition increased in the fixed rate lending space which when combined with market volatility resulted in lower spreads and lower gain on sale profits on an individual loan basis.
Loan volumes in this business line were up modestly over 2013 to $459 million.
We expect increased volume in 2015 which should mitigate the current lower spread environment.
Even with the increase in the competition yields within this business remain very attractive and more than 30% during 2014.
We’ve made solid progress in our floating rate bridge lending program in 2014.
Organizations increased over 270% to $505 million when compared to 2013.
Unlike the fixed rate originated [sell] program these loans are held on our balance sheet and generate recurring monthly interest income.
The new floating rate bridge loans are financed short term on our warehouse facilities until we aggregate a sufficient size pool of loans which are then financed with long-term non-recourse match funded liabilities.
During 2014 RAIT sponsored two floating rate CMBS securitizations issuing $337 million of investment grade notes collateralized by $415 million of loans.
We retained a $78 million subordinate investment in these two securitizations which we expect will deliver a high-teens return over the life of the collateral.
We expect to increase the volume of our floating rate lending business in 2015 and are working to close our fourth floating rate securitization in the second quarter.
In our property portfolio increases in direct investments and real-estate and properties under management increased 70% to $1.7 billion when compared to 2013.
The majority of the growth came from $497 million of multifamily acquisitions made through Independence Reality Trust during the year.
We also made opportunistic purchases of two retail centers as we see an opportunity to invest in retail property assets using the urban retail platform.
We expect to generate strong recurring risk adjusted returns and create another stable revenue stream for RAIT.
Rental income grew during the year through increased rental rates and property acquisitions.
RAIT's multifamily portfolio experienced year-over-year same-store average rent growth of 4%.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim for the financial report.
Thank you Scott.
As Scott mentioned 2014 was a transformative year for RAIT as we experienced growth in our core business activities and exited the legacy Taberna business.
For the year CAD was $57.5 million or $0.71 per common share.
This included a $21.5 million charge for the previously announced settlement with the SEC.
The $21.5 million settlement charge is recorded in the line item called other income and expense.
From a GAAP perspective we are reporting an overall net loss of $390 million or $3.92 per share for the year ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2014.
This loss is primarily comprised of the $260 million loss we incurred on the deconsolidation of Taberna 8 and Taberna 9 during December 2014.
As discussed during our third quarter conference call we took steps to exit the Taberna business during the fourth quarter.
This included selling the collateral management contracts on Taberna 1 Taberna 8 and Taberna 9.
That sale closed on December 19th and we deconsolidated Taberna 8 and Taberna 9 on that date.
Through December 19th however we continue to account for Taberna on a GAAP basis including the accrue of income and expenses as well as the regular normal fair value accounting for assets liabilities and hedges.
As it relates to the sale of the collateral management contracts we recorded income of $4.5 million net of severance and other costs associated with exiting the Taberna business.
Lastly in January 2015 we sold the various bonds we held related to the Taberna business for proceeds of $20.4 million.
In summary we generated $24.9 million of additional capital from exiting the Taberna business.
In addition to loss of deconsolidation of Taberna our GAAP net loss for 2014 was also driven by the $99 million of changes in the fair value of our various financial issuances.
With the deconsolidation of Taberna this volatility will be removed from our future financial results.
Compared to 2013 our net interest margin was flat.
Here are several reasons for this as follows: one NIM from Taberna was down by $5.6 million in 2014.
Two we had $164 million of loan payoffs in 2014 causing a reduction in NIM of $5.3 million.
Three our 2014 floating rate loan production of $505 million and related financing cost provided or increased NIM by $7.2 million.
And finally during 2014 we had $3.7 million in reduced hedging cost associated with our loans when compared to 2013.
As we discussed the previously the interest rates in our RAIT I or RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $8 million of reduced hedging cost during the 2015 when compared to 2014 as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
Keep in mind that our CRE senior notes and related hedges fares both third-party loans and some of our own real-estate assets.
As such the total savings of $8 million expected in 2015 will be seen to an improvement in NIM and reduced interest expense.
From a credit perspective our CRE non-accrual loans decreased to $25 million during 2014 and represented about 1.8% of our loan portfolio at year end.
This decrease during 2014 was related to two loans totaling $9 million that were charged off one loan for $8 million that was deconsolidated with Taberna and that was offset by $5.5 million of net additions from non-accrual status.
Our current loan loss reserves are $9.2 million or 37% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate.
Rental income increased by 42% or $48.1 million in 2014 as compared to 2013.
This increase is primarily the result of $45.8 million of rental income associated with 32 properties acquired during 2014 and those present for a full year in 2014.
The growth in new properties is primarily driven by the growth of Independence Reality Trust.
During 2014 IRT acquired 20 properties for an aggregate cost of $497 million.
The remaining increase of $2.3 million in rental revenue is due to continued improvement in rental rates across the same-store properties.
Lastly fee and other income was $24.3 million in 2014 that was comprised of the following: $9.5 million of CMBS loan sale profitability $13 million of property management revenue $1 million of asset management fees and $700 000 of other fee income.
With respect to our expenses a couple items of note.
Interest expense this year is up $15.1 million compared to 2013 due primarily to $8.7 million of interest associated with mortgages used to finance the properties acquired during 2014 and those mortgages present for a full year this year.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $6.4 million resulted from our issuances of a $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014 and the amortization of associated debt issuance cost.
Property operating expenses increased by [$28.7] million this year as compared to 2013.
Of this increase $20 million is the result of the 32 properties acquired during 2014 and those present for a full year.
Operating expenses in the same-store portfolio increased $600 000 primarily because of increased real estate taxes.
Overall the net operating income of our real-estate portfolio was $80.7 million this year an increase of $27.4 million from last year.
On a same-store basis NOI this year increased 3.7% from 2013.
Compensation and general and administrative cost ended the year at $45.8 million or 68% of our total revenues.
While these costs were up $4.5 million they are down from 17% of total revenue in 2013.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all over-collateralization tests.
CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of a 121% above the required level of 112%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to the yearend 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity for investments.
We accessed the capital markets three times in 2014 at RAIT issuing common equity and to allow the senior unsecured bonds raising gross proceeds of $214.5 million.
Additionally Independence Realty Trust completed three common share issuances in 2014.
In total IRT issued 22.1 million common shares and raised $201 million of gross proceeds during 2014.
All of these proceeds have been invested.
RAIT continues to externally manage IRT and currently owns 23% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thank you Jim.
As we look out over 2015 we see opportunities to continue growing both fixed rate and fixed rate and floating rate loan origination volumes with a goal of originating 1.2 billion to 1.6 billion during 2015.
We also expect to continue adding multifamily IRT's portfolio and to make property acquisitions through the urban retail platform.
Additionally we have begun marketing a number of RAIT owned properties for sale with the focus on the multifamily portfolio and as we see opportunities to generated solid gains in the current environment.
And operator at this time I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney representing JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys and congratulations on the Taberna Exit and let's say the year-end balance sheet is certainly easier on the eyes than the September one.
Just to touch on the Taberna Exit I just want to make sure I understand what happened in January you sold -- you had already sold the management contracts but you sold the residual interest did you sell all of the residual interest in that transaction or do you still own some bonds? We sold all the bonds we still hold the preferred equity class and they will be disposed off early in 2015.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for clarifying.
Sort of from a value standpoint there is no value there.
Okay.
And the proceeds of 20.4 million did that simply recover your carrying value or was there possibly a gain related to that transaction? Well the carrying value was [as I stated] the carrying value was -- the base side of bond was significantly higher than 20.4 million.
Correct yes.
Let's say in other proceeds the sales proceeds roughly was roughly equal to where you were carrying those at fair value? Correct yes.
Okay.
Got it.
But it did you made the point I believe that you freed up 24 million 25 million of actual capital out of the transaction.
That's right.
Okay.
And related to that I know that you were through the holidays and all this year trying to work with the folks at the SEC just to finalize your Agreement with them that you entered into in September.
Can you comment as to whether that has been finalized at this point? It has not been finalized at this point.
We are at the mercy of the SEC they will be providing the first draft of the settlement agreement and they have not provided to us at this time.
I will tell you however that all of the changes that we made within RAIT exiting the Taberna business the exiting or separation with the two officers all of that has been communicated to the SEC as it was happening and they had no comment.
So they are fully aware of what we've done we're just waiting on them to provide the settlement agreement.
Got it okay.
Thank you for that Scott that's helpful.
And just one final thing from me Jim you mentioned that your ownership at IRT is 23% for modeling purposes for at least for 2015 should we just assume going forward the IRT’s multifamily assets will continue to be consolidated onto the rate balance sheet? Through 2015 correct yes I would.
Your next question comes from the line of Lucy Webster representing Compass Point.
Please proceed.
Good morning it’s Jason here.
A couple of questions Scott if you could elaborate on the property sales I am assuming these are the properties financed via CRE CDO 1 or 2 what happens to the proceeds when you do sell a property in then those portfolios? There are three properties that we’ve identified it’s a 1000 unit.
They all have senior debt that is not held by rate that is maturing in the near term and there is some minor amount of rate mezzanine debt still held in the CDOs so the proceeds obviously will go to pay off the CDOs and it will reduce or pay off CDO bonds a 100% relatively to that mezz debt.
The senior loans will be paid off to the third parties and then the value in excess of those debt balances will be held by RAIT.
Okay so you do get the excess that does not go pay down any addition CDO debt? No because the CDO liabilities will be paid in full relative to the CDO exposure.
Got it and you’ve showed three properties of 1000 units is that I guess near term event we should expect and is it something that that could continue throughout the year or is this more of a strategic push or just opportunistic near term? We are looking towards a second quarter transaction.
It is opportunistic relative to the market environment that we’re in but we were -- we are expecting this to be the first of a number of sales.
Right thank you and then and do you have -- when the trends in terms of occupancy and rent growth were particularly strong in the fourth quarter specially in the office and retailers how much of that trend should we expect to continue I know it can be able to bumpy but that certainly was much stronger than we had modeled anything you can give us to think about how that should trend going throughout the year? I think it should continue to trend well.
It takes a little bit longer as we’ve always said to stabilize the office and retail portfolio rather than the multifamily but we’re making good progress and we think that the properties are well positioned to continue to experience higher occupancy rates and hopefully lease rates rental rates.
Great one last one for me and I’ll jump out in the conduit business was there any particular loan that depressed to gain on sale or was it -- and at sometimes you can have timing because of spreads or is that really a good run rate for where the competitive environment is pushed at margin? I think first let me just say that we were a victim of our own success really our spreads were much wider than the market as a whole previously because the market wasn’t focused on smaller loans.
So what we’ve seen is spreads on those smaller loans come in as more and more competition moved into that space.
As you now it is somewhat volatile the spreads changed almost daily.
Right now we’re seeing a little bit of an increase spread environment here in the first quarter leading into the second quarter then what we saw late in the fourth quarter of last year but if anyone’s guess that spread environment will continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani representing KBW.
Please proceed.
On the competitive environment for lending beyond the conduit market that you had cited where are seeing the greatest amount of competition and where do you think you continue to have a niche or an advantage? Well I think the competition is across the Board clearly in the conduit space the originate for sale program there is a more competition just because it’s less capital intensive but let’s be clear there is competition everywhere.
Our niche really is the relationships that we've developed and maintained over 18 or 19 years and just the reputation of being able to deliver and as you can see we had a big increase in volume last year and we expect another sizable increase in volume this year based upon our early projections.
So our niche is just knowing what we do there are barriers to entry no one -- you can’t just in to this business you have to have the capital the knowhow in the relationships and we’ve been doing it for a long time.
And we have the capital to continue this growth.
The floating rate business is really our bread and butter.
We see a big opportunity to continue to originate good well positioned and strong credit loans and to securitize them in the floating rate CMBS we were one of the early movers in that space.
We’ve closed three of those deals now it becomes way clock work and as we've said we expect to have our fourth one done in the second quarter of this year.
Regarding the floating rate business have you seen just sequentially any either spread widening or would you say competition has offset that and so perhaps spreads have either remained flat or compressed slightly? Spreads have come in on both the liabilities and on the assets so the -- or I should say pricing so our spread has been -- we've been able to maintain it.
And we expect that to continue.
And regarding the CMBS volatility has there been any notable impact on floating rate issuance do you think pricing on this fourth securitization based on what you know today would be similar to past deals or do you think it would improved upon? I would expect it to be improved upon.
Do you guys plan to continue to report FFO and AFFO? I don’t believe they were disclosed this quarter? We do not plan to continue to present AFFOs simply because that was affected by the Taberna business and included the NIM on Taberna so we're going to removing that going forward and we will certainly reporting FFO when it's published.
And can you disclose FFO for this quarter? Sure it's – fourth quarter was a loss of $2.97 because of the Taberna deconsolidation obviously.
And do you have that excluding the Taberna deconsolidation? I do not have it in front of me but I can call you back.
And then just finally the comment around investment capacity can you -- I mean do you mind just providing some color on kind of investment capacity and also targeted financial leverage? Yes we ended the year with $122 million of cash in the balance sheet and we only had -- we generated proceeds coming up from the bonds as well from the bond sale.
And our currently -- we're expecting continued leverage in the floating rate business of approximately 80%.
Once it's matched [indiscernible] 80% leverage on the floating rate business.
The warehousing advance is 50%.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Eckert representing MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Just had a quick question on the originations in the last two or three quarters there appear to be significantly [kick] back towards the conduit business.
Are you expecting -- what kind of mix are you expecting in 2015 between your floating rate and fixed rate businesses? We're modeling a 50-50 split.
Your next question comes from the line of [Mathias] Capital Management.
Please proceed.
In 2014 you paid out roughly all of your CAD in dividends and that CAD was inclusive of taking a $0.26 charge.
So how should we think about your targeted payout ratio going forward? Previously we've targeted 75% of CAD for the dividend and yes clearly in 2014 that was impacted by the SEC settlement.
The Board looks at the dividend payout every quarter and we really don’t have a formal policy.
We've no further questions at this time I would now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.
Thank you Operator.
Thanks for joining us today.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.