Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2015 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Krystal and I will be operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav; Senior Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Thank you Cristal and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust first quarter 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our Web site at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 42757358.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres.
And thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT's first quarter 2015 earnings calls.
We have entered the next chapter of RAIT with a more simplified and transparent business model and presentation.
We've also made progress and are close to finalizing the previously announced Taberna settlement with the SEC and hope to finalize the settlement documentations within the next 30 days.
We are therefore reaffirming our prior disclosure that the amount of the settlement would be $21.5 million which was expensed in the third quarter of last year.
Now on to the quarterly results.
Cash available for distribution or CAD for the first quarter was $0.19 per share which falls within our guidance.
We are also reaffirming our previously announced annual CAD guidance of between $1.02 and $1.20 per share for 2015 which includes approximately $0.26 to $0.32 per share of CAD from gains on property sales.
We expect the second quarter we’ll approximately $0.18 per share of property sale gains in CAD and it dissipates additional gains in the second half of the year.
During the first quarter we originated 17 loans totaling $218 million consisting of $90 million of floating rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed rate conduit loans.
We sold $93 million of conduit loans during the quarter which generated fee income of $2 million.
We are currently on track and expect to complete our fourth rate sponsored floating rate CMBS securitization appropriately named FL-4 during the second quarter.
RAIT's property portfolio continues to grow and is providing an even larger more stable revenue stream.
The NOI from our consolidated property portfolio totaled $28 million for the quarter as compared to the $16.3 million of NIM generated from our loan portfolio during the first quarter.
The multifamily property portfolio continues to experience rent and occupancy growth as strong market fundamentals remain in tailwind for the portfolio.
There is work to be done in our office and retail portfolios and our property management companies are working diligently to improve the operating performance of these properties.
Our platform is now comprised of over 775 employees with $4.6 billion of assets under management which is up from $4.5 billion at the end of 2014.
This time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report the financial results.
Thank you Scott.
For the first quarter of 2015 CAD was $15.3 million or $0.19 per common share.
From a GAAP perspective for the first quarter we are reporting an overall net loss of $7.1 million or $0.09 per share which is down from an $0.18 loss a year ago.
When comparing the income statement for 2015 to prior period there are several variances of note.
Though the first quarter of 2015 is the first quarter without any impact from Taberna on our reported results the financial impact of Taberna is still present in periods prior to 2015.
For the first quarter our net interest margin was down $11.4 million as compared to the first quarter of last year.
The two primary drivers of the decrease in NIM were $5.1 million associated with Taberna and $6.3 million of non returned items in 2014 which were both included in Q1 2014 but not present in Q1 2015.
Excluding these items NIM was essentially flat as interest income associated with loan pay-off was replaced with interest income associated with new loans and the reduced hedging cost which we have discussed before.
As we've previously discussed the interest rate hedges in our RAIT 1 and RAIT 2 securitizations are continuing to burn off based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see about $6.2 million of reduced hedging cost during the rest of 2015 when compared to 2014 as these hedges when compared to 2014 as these hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
From a credit specific perspective loan quality remains stable.
Our CRE non-accrual loans decreased to $24.9 million during Q1 2015 and represent about 1.6% of our loan portfolio at quarter end.
Our current loan loss reserves are at $10.8 million or 43% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate.
Rental income increased by 53% or $18.8 million in Q1 2015 as compared to last year this increase was primarily result of $17.3 million of rental income associated with the property that we acquired during 2014 or present for a full quarter -- the first quarter in 2015.
The growth in new properties is primarily driven by the growth in Independence Reality Trust.
The remaining increase of $1.5 million is due to continued improvement in rental rates across the same store properties.
Fee and other income increased 27% to $5.6 million increase Q1 2015 which is up from $4.4 million last year.
During Q1 2015 fee and other income was comprised of $2.0 million of CMBS loan sales profitability and $3.6 million of property management revenue.
During the first quarter we also earned $2 million of asset management and property management fees through our external management and property management agreements with IRT.
While these IRT fees are eliminated for GAAP they are captured in CAD.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense this quarter is up $8.1 million as compared to Q1 last year.
This is primarily due to $4.2 million of interest associated with the mortgage loans that we used to finance the properties that were acquired during 2014.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $3.8 million resulted from our issuance of the $132 million of senior unsecured notes after Q1 2014 and interest on the $76 million of senior secured notes that were eliminated in consolidation prior to 2015.
Property operating expenses increased by $7.9 million in Q1 as compared to last year of this increase $7.6 million relates to the properties that we acquired during 2014.
Property operating expenses in the same store portfolio increased $300 000 primarily because of increased real estate taxes.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $28 million this quarter an increase of $10.9 million from Q1 last year.
On a same store basis NOI this quarter increased 8% from Q1 2014.
Compensation and G&amp;A cost ended the quarter at $11.5 million or 15% of our total revenue.
From a balance sheet point of view we ended the quarter with $93 million of cash on hand and $402 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities.
During the quarter we originated $219 million of loans comprised of $90 million of floating rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed rate CMBS loans.
In addition we have $17 million of CRE loan repayments during Q1 2015.
We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $516 million or $6.22 per share.
As for the published guidance we estimate our CAD for 2015 to be range in the $1.02 to $1.20 per share.
Excluding the property sale gains quarterly CAD should range between $0.19 - $0.215 per share per quarter.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thanks Jim.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Jason Stewart from Compass Point.
Please proceed.
Jim I heard you get to the interest income and I just want to go back to that because it increased quite a bit.
I'm sorry -- the interest expense quarter-over-quarter.
And I wondered if you could break this just down a little bit more to what was driving the quarter-to-quarter increase in interest expense? I think I mentioned that the increase in interest expense was $8.1 million quarter-to-quarter.
It’s primarily due to $4.2 million of interest on the new mortgage loans and the remaining $3.8 million is associated with the $132 million of senior unsecured baby bonds we did last year and the $76 million of senior secured notes that we used to eliminate in consolidation when we consolidated Taberna.
The new mortgage loans Jason relate to properties that were acquired subsequent to the first quarter of last year.
Okay.
I am just looking at the total liabilities.
The percentage of increases aren't matching and I'm wondering if I'm missing either number one something that was happening in consolidation or number two that you are just carrying more liquidity that you're going to deploy and you are paying for it in the first quarter.
We certainly have $93 million of cash on hand but which is consistent with the end of the year and previous quarters.
We can certainly talk after this to go through the details further.
Okay.
Second question was just on loans held for sale carried over quarter and if you could just give us a number of what was carried over but not sold? The number that was carried over at the end of the quarter I believe was 127 million.
Our next question will come from the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
So looking at the first-quarter loan production mix on the 219 million it breaks out about 60-40.
Obviously quarter-to-quarter that can bounce around but if we look out for the full year how should we feel about the balance between -- to see the market opportunities today the balance between conduit loans and bridge loans for the portfolio? We still believe that over the course of the year that it will be more on 50-50 ratio between floating and fixed rate.
But it is not as you point on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
And just looking just generally Scott looking at second-quarter pipeline how do you feel about the conduit side of things in the second quarter vis-à-vis the 93 million of sales in the first quarter? We feel very good as Jim just pointed out we have an excess of $120 million of loans held for sale at the end of the quarter on our balance sheet plus production in the pipeline in the second quarter looks good.
So feel that we’re in a good position relative to the second quarter.
Great and we did note that the gain on sale margin at least the way we calculate it jumped up to about 315 from about 170 in the fourth quarter so nice to see that trend.
My last thing is really just strategic big picture as opposed to anything about the first quarter.
I'm just curious when we look at your integrated platform.
Are you looking to acquire any operating companies or businesses that might be nice bolt-ons to the platform similar to what you did with Urban Retail last year? And where I am going Scott is if you -- as you look at what you have in place today are they -- is there anything on your wish list or any holes you have that would just think could make you guys more effective more profitable if you had certain capabilities that maybe you lack now in property services or asset management? We’re always looking at opportunities to acquire assets and companies that could help us but I have to tell you that I believe that our platform is very strong.
We have good leadership at the top of each division and each division is easily scalable.
So as the portfolio sits today and the different property types that we own and manage I feel that the platform as it is well positioned to continue to grow and take advantage of those portfolios.
Our next question will come from the line of David Walrod from Ladenburg.
Please proceed.
Quick question just on your CAD calculation the allocation to non controlling interest was up significantly.
Can you walk me through the details of that? It's just the allocation associated with IRT the third party owners of Independent Realty Trust.
As you know if IRT bought a significant amount of properties in the fourth quarter that’s why you are seeing that rise.
Our next question will come from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed.
Just on the interest expense question quarter-over-quarter can you explain why it increased? I think that the answer you gave was on a year-over-year basis the 8.1 million.
So if you could clarify why the quarter-over-quarter increase in interest expense went up by 3 million that would be helpful.
It's the same discussion that we had before same kind of component it's the interest expense on the new mortgage debt as well as the interest on the baby bonds that issued after the first quarter of last year as well as the $76 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in consolidation.
Jade you referring to fourth quarter to first quarter? Yes.
Again the deconsolidation of Taberna happened at the end of the fourth quarter so the interest on that 76 million appears in the first quarter for the first time.
And we acquired a number of properties many properties at the IRT level in the fourth quarter.
So the first quarter was the first full quarter that we had that mortgage debt in place.
So that’s really the two primary drivers for that.
Just big picture I wanted to get your thoughts on the competitive environment for lending where you are seeing the most pressure from competition and where you think rate has a niche or advantage? We are seeing significant competition in the CMBS space.
I still believe that we have a great niche and advantage in the smaller loan space.
I still believe that there is -- that that's the inflection point of profitability for us within the small loans where we can price them a little wider because there is less competition at that level.
On the floating rate side again it’s a big market and we are a relatively small company and as such we think there is a tremendous room for growth in our originations for those types of loans.
Most of our competitors are chasing the fixed rate CMBS conduit lending type loans because it’s less capital intensive.
Are you seeing new entrants impact pricing and perhaps be a little less disciplined than people who have been doing this for quite a long time? New entrants are impacting pricing in the larger loan size yes and that’s why spreads have come in.
The lending fundamentals from a credit perspective it changes as the market matures but we’re still very comfortable with the credit structures that we are able to put in place and we are not having to stretch to compete full loans in that area.
Okay.
The margins on the CMBS conduit business would you say that they are stable or still under pressure? Right now I think they are stable.
And are you seeing any push toward securitizers having to contribute more of their own directly originated loans to deals and push out smaller loan contributors? No we’re still contributing loans with each of our partners and they are happy to take our assets or loans.
Okay so you’re not -- no pushback because I think that in the media there has been various reports about bond buyers preferring securitizers to originate more -- just I think over 50% of the loan contributions.
Well we’re a meaningful contributor over contributing pools in the $100 million give or take range that’s meaningful and we are a named issuer within the securitization.
So we’re not just blindly contributing loans to somebody else’s pool.
Got it.
Do you think that B notes and mezzanine are attractive at this point? Would you consider increasing or broadening your credit palate to include those? No I wouldn’t.
As I have stated before we will consider a subordinate debt piece where we are doing the senior loan I have no interest in doing subordinate debt behind others.
I just think where rates are today for that type of product I’m much happier doing the senior piece and either securitizing it ourselves if it’s a floating rate or selling it.
So we’re not really looking to build a subordinate debt portfolio.
Great thanks.
And just one last one can you comment on current investment capacity and how you would approach issuing capital at this point and also target financial leverage? As we talked about leverage in the past we have our warehouse agreements in a lot of our lending arrangements limit our leverage at 80%.
We ended the quarter with 93 million of capital on-hand to fund new loans and with 402 million of capacity under our lending warehouses.
We always -- as we kind of put out into our guidance we are expecting to do some capital kind of raising later in the year but that is dependent on loan flow and production volumes quarter-to-quarter.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
One of my questions is already answered.
The other question I have is I see your stake in IRT is down to 23% now.
Do you ever see a point at which your investment in IRT would make it non-consolidatable sometime later this year or next year? Richard this is Jim.
Thanks for the question.
It’s always possibility as you know in our disclosures Independence Realty Trust is considered a variable interest entity.
As a result of the consolidation guidance around it with the external management contract is a very complex set of facts and circumstances.
As our investment continues to decline yes it will eventually lead to deconsolidation although there is no exact fine point as to what that percentage need to get to in order to consolidate.
Okay so this is just from a modeling standpoint.
Can I consider it -- for most of the remainder of this year and next you will be consolidating that entity? That’s a fair assumption.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Jason Stewart.
Please proceed.
One follow-up -- and I think you can tell we’re all struggling with this expense stuff here.
If I calculate the increase in rental income I’m getting about 7 point -- $8.5 million quarter-to-quarter.
But I'm also getting an increase in interest and real estate operating expense of almost a little less like $6 million $6.1 million.
I’m just wondering how much of that -- it sounds like that’s all related to IRT or if there is any one time items in there anything we should back out to look at the increase in operating income? Anything any color you can give us on the way those two line items -- three line items are working would be really helpful.
Sure.
I think we commented on the property operating expense increase from Q1 of last year to Q1 of this year it’s about $7.9 million.
And Jim I think the point that all the analysts are struggling with is not year-over-year; it’s quarter-to-quarter because that’s when the deconsolidation happens so if you could just focus on quarter-to-quarter that would be more helpful to us.
Sure.
Let me get that information we’ll call you back.
Our next question will come from the line Jade Rahmani.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on IRT how do you think about the management structure of that company and whether to internalize? Most equity REITs are internally managed.
You yourselves are internally managed and that would be a way to capitalize the management fee stream and thereby increase book value.
The management contract between IRT and REIT has a four year term.
It’s non-cancellable I guess both parties could agree but outside of that it has a full year term that automatically renews for one year period after the first four years.
We are about two years into that four year period so I think for the next two years at least that contract will probably stay in place.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in queue I would like to turn the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thanks for joining our call today and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that conclude today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.