Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Lisa and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's second quarter 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson President; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 93207351.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with reflect to future events and financial performances.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for facts that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under investor relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres and thank you for joining our call today.
And welcome to RAIT's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
We had a solid second quarter as net interest margin rent income property NOI fee income and cash available for distribution all increased on a linked-quarter basis.
We continue to see good opportunities to deploy capital into the real estate market and remain focused on growing our assets under management.
Our asset management platform is now comprised of over 775 employees focused on commercial real estate lending as well as owning managing and servicing commercial real estate assets.
We ended the quarter with $4.8 billion of assets under management a 6.7% increase from December 31 2014.
Cash available for distribution or CAD for the quarter was $0.37 per share comprised of $0.21 in base CAD up 10.5% from quarter one and $0.16 previously disclosed gain from the sale of property.
CAD per share was up 95% quarter over quarter total revenues were up 4.6% and net interest margin increased 1.2% over the same period.
During the second quarter the lending business originated 24 loans totaling $219 million consisting of $95 million of floating-rate bridge loans $118 million of fixed-rate conduit loans and a $500 million mezzanine loan.
During the first half of the year gross loan originations totaled $437 million.
Our pipeline is strong as we're seeing a pickup in potential lending opportunities.
We've spent time building a strong reputation in both the fixed and floating rate lending markets supported by a team of 11 originators and 10 underwriters.
During the quarter we sold $130 million of conduit loans which generated fee income -- or gains -- of $3.7 million.
In total we've sold $223 million of conduit loans during the first half of the year.
We remain credit focused and disciplined effectively selling every fixed-rate loan we've originated.
We also closed on a $223 million RAIT sponsored floating-rate CMBS securitization RAIT's fourth floating-rate securitization.
We retained $41.8 million of the below investment grade and subordinate interests which generate an 18.5% return for rate.
Clearly this continues to be a segment of our business where we will continue allocating capital.
We're now in the process of accumulating loans for FL5.
Our property portfolio remains anchored by our multifamily properties which continue to deliver stable and growing returns as fundamentals remain very positive.
We're also seeing improvement in the operating performance of our office and retail portfolios.
We've begun selling our landholdings.
In July we sold two small land parcels in Daytona Florida for approximately $3 million realizing a $500 000 gain on the sale during the third quarter.
We anticipate more land sales during the fourth quarter of the year.
Before turning the call over to Jim just a quick update on the status of the SEC settlement pertaining to Taberna.
As of this call the RAIT Board has signed off on the final settlement documents and we're waiting for the SEC's formal approval.
The settlement amount remains $21.5 million which was previously expensed in the third quarter of 2014.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.
Jim.
Thank you Scott.
Cash for the second quarter was $30.3 million or $0.37 per common share.
This $0.37 includes $0.16 of property sale gains and $0.21 of base CAD which increased 10.5% from the first quarter of 2015.
From a GAAP perspective for the quarter we're reporting overall net income of $19 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
During Q2 there were several transactions of note.
First we completed our fourth RAIT sponsored floating-rate securitization which we refer to as FL4.
We replaced $181 million of investment grade bonds which financed $223 million of first mortgage loans we originated and previously held on warehouse.
The weighted average cost of the bond is LIBOR plus 184 basis points and their weighted average coupon in the mortgage loans is 5.2%.
As a result the cash-on-cash return to RAIT is 18.5%.
Second we completed the sale of two real estate properties generating a GAAP gain of $17.3 million and a CAD gain of $13.1 million.
And lastly IRT which we externally manage announced its $650 million merger transaction with Trade Street Residential.
The benefit of this transaction for RAIT is increased assets under management and increased asset management and property management fee revenue.
The transaction is expected to close in Q3 2015.
Onto the income statement.
First we will discuss year-over-year highlights.
When comparing the year-over-year results please remember that the financial impact of Taberna is still present throughout 2014.
Comparing net interest margin year over year it decreased by $10.6 million.
Of this decrease $5.4 million was associated with Taberna and $4.3 million of non-routine items existed in 2014 which did not exist in 2015.
While our interest-bearing loan has increased over the last 12 months that additional interest was offset by loan repayments which aggregated $198 million since June 30 2014.
Consolidated rental income increased year over year by $16.3 million.
Of this increase $11.2 million relates to the growth of IRT.
The remaining $5.1 million relates to the growth and improvement of the RAIT-only property portfolio with $3.5 million associated with additional owned real estate since last year and $1.6 million related to the improvement in occupancy and rental rates across the portfolio.
Property operating expenses increased by $6.7 million in Q2 as compared to last year.
Of this increase $4.7 million relates to the growth of IRT.
The remaining increase of [Technical Difficulty] dollars relates to the RAIT-only property portfolio of which $1.4 million resulted from the increase in owned real estate since Q2 of last year and $600 000 associated with RAIT's same-store property portfolio.
Regarding the RAIT's only same-store portfolio we expanded the information in our press release regarding occupancies and rental rates for IRT and RAIT separately.
As such RAIT's same-store property portfolio only includes the multifamily office and retail properties it owns.
RAIT's multifamily portfolio includes 5 911 units and its office and retail portfolios total more than 4.3 million square feet.
Year-to-year NOI performance of RAIT's only same-store properties was strong with an 8.5% improvement primarily driven by increased occupancies in RAIT's office portfolio and 8% increases in the rental rates in its multifamily portfolio.
Year-over-year interest expense was up $6.5 million primarily due to $3.6 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance a property acquired during 2014 and interest expense resulting from our insurances of $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014 and interest on the $74 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in consolidation prior to 2015.
Now turning to some key financial highlights when comparing our current results to the first quarter of 2015.
Net interest margin increased by $200 000 sequentially as a result of the growth in our loan portfolio.
Rental income increased sequentially by $1.5 million as IRT acquired a $25.3 million asset during Q2 along with additional revenue from continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates in our -- in RAIT's only office and multifamily portfolios.
Fee and other income increased $1.8 million sequentially to $7.4 million on larger CMBS gain on sale volumes.
During Q2 2014 fee and other income was comprised of the following $3.7 million of CMBS loan profitability on $130.4 million of growing sales; $3.4 million of property management revenue; and $300 000 of some other income.
During the second quarter we earned $2 million of asset management and property management fees through external management and property management agreements with IRT.
While these fees are eliminated for GAAP they are captured in CAD.
We expect both the asset and management fees and property management fees we generate from IRT to increase to $3.3 million per quarter after IRT closes on its previously announced merger with Trade Street Residential.
With respect to some expenses there were no notable changes sequentially as compared to Q1 2015.
Lastly during Q2 we sold two real estate properties at -- $17.3 million on one property and deferred a $3 million gain on the second property pursuant to the installment sale method.
As discussed previously these sales were opportunistic and provide us with the ability to recycle capital into our lending business.
From a credit perspective we maintained our $2 million quarterly provision as we're originating more floating-rate on balance sheet loans.
Our CRE nonaccrual loans represent 1.6% of our loan portfolio quarter and our loan-loss reserves were $12.8 million or 52% of our nonaccrual loans.
From a balance sheet point of view we ended the quarter with $105 million of cash on hand and $497 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities.
During the quarter we originated $219 million of loans comprised of $95 million of floating-rate bridge loans a $5 million mezzanine loan and $118 million of fixed-rate CMBS loans.
In addition we had $113 million of CRE loan repayments during the second quarter of 2015.
We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $520.1 million or $6.27 per share.
With regards to interest rates RAIT's current portfolio is well positioned for a rising RAIT environment.
The portfolio is match funded which insulates its cash flow from higher interest rates.
With respect to our CAD guidance for the third quarter we're currently expecting CAD per share of approximately $0.26 to $0.27 which includes approximately $0.06 to $0.07 of gains on the sale of real estate properties.
Scott this concludes the financial part.
Back to you.
Thank you Jim.
Lisa at this time I would like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And your first question comes from the line of Ben Zucker with JMP Securities.
Please proceed First this is more housekeeping.
I hear your 3Q CAD guidance of $0.26 to $0.27.
So does this mean that the full-year $102 to $120 million range that's still a good range for us to be working off of? Yes it is.
And then just secondly as you guys are starting to realize some of the gains in the real estate portfolio which seemingly in a good place based off of the recent sale we saw I was just wondering what you guys felt was the best use of these proceeds in available capital going forward.
Because obviously this is one of the more diversified REITs that has some optimality.
And I was just curious what you're seeing out there would you guys like if it's the floating-rate bridge loans or maybe more aggressive push into conduit lending as those margins have shown some pretty substantial improvement year to date.
Or maybe even a property acquisition.
And then that's it for me so thanks guys.
Right now we feel that the lending business generates the best return on equity and that's where we're allocating the majority of the capital that we're generating from -- or will generate from property sales.
As we said the floating-rate business generates an 18.5% return once we securitize the loans.
And we all know that the conduit business is still in the 20%-plus return space.
So that's where the money is going to be allocated.
Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Please proceed.
Just wanted to ask your view of the current real estate cycle.
Have you seen any changes in how borrowers and sponsors are approaching the market given the high levels of competition we're seeing how strong pricing has been as well as the prospect of rate increases? I think borrowers are -- a couple of things.
One I think many folks imagine there is going to be a rate increase so I think as you would expect folks who can borrow now are borrowing now.
And I think you are likely see that continue for the next 6 to 12 months i.e.
the foreseeable future.
Second as you said there are a lot of folks out there a lot of options that borrowers have.
And I think that depending upon the type of financing whether it's an acquisition or a refi they are choosing lenders depending upon their comfort with that lender as well as the terms that are offered.
CMBS terms have become pretty consistent lender to lender.
It's a well-defined market and I think in some way the advantage that we have in the floating-rate side is that much of that is acquisition-related activity.
You have to trust and imagine that the lender that you do business with is going to actually close and live up to the commitment that they put on the table the proceeds that they suggested to you at the outset of the loan amount.
And if you looked at our last floating-rate securitization you'll see that a very high percentage of those borrowers were repeat borrowers of ours because they've gotten very comfortable with our ability to act and do as we say we're going to do.
So it's a competitive environment but I feel like at least from our perspective our market position is pretty well defined and we're doing well within that market.
And just a follow-up.
In terms of the way borrowers and sponsors are thinking about the cycle are you seeing deal flow migrate to secondary markets or any other notable changes? You have to remember that we're a small- to middle-market lender and the vast majority of our business is done in secondary markets.
So I don't think there's a noticeable change that we've seen other than the fact that if you take your premise that more folks are looking at those markets that's a strength of ours and a place where we feel particularly comfortable and I think borrowers brokers etc.
know that we're good at operating in those markets.
On the conduit business side can you discuss recent trends? I think there's been articles in the media citing pushback from bond buyers on contributions from smaller conduit participants.
Are you seeing any pressure in terms of your contribution to securitizations? And do you expect to maintain the level of conduit business you've been doing? We read the same articles that you do but I'm not in a position to comment on other folks' business.
I would say that Scott alluded to the fact in his notes we've yet to have the circumstance where a loan that we've originated we have yet not been able to sell.
And our goal is to -- for that to continue the partners that we've been focused on -- as you know Barclays and Citi have been great partners of ours and we look forward to that continuing.
So we haven't seen the pressure that you're describing.
Others may have but we're here.
So I can just tell you that we're not having a particular challenge in that regard.
What was the second part of your question I'm sorry? Well if you're expecting to maintain your volume levels -- sounds like you are.
But also I wanted to ask about volatility that took place in the second half of June and if you could comment on CMBS trends post quarter end.
Sure.
Spreads widened call it I don't know 20 basis points in AAAs maybe a little bit more over the course of the last month.
I think as we've described previously the best hedge one can have against that on a CMBS book is to be constantly and actively in the market selling loans and we continue to do that.
So we've seen spreads widen on the lending side.
That means we've widened the spreads that we've charted to our borrowers and keeping with the market.
And we've been a pretty diligent and effective seller of loans so we endeavor very strongly to never be caught in a position with a huge amount of loans that are subject to a spread widening.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Stewart of Compass Point.
Please proceed.
You guys have been very successful especially in the second quarter of raising capital per se by selling either non-core assets or things that you think might have hit your targets.
But when you've really pulled back how do you weigh your growth especially in the bridge business and the capital needs to go along with that with where the stock is and your ability to generate capital internally? Well Jason we're always looking at how we can generate capital internally.
And we did sell that one property and it was -- in our opinion it had reached its economic potential and we thought it was an appropriate time given the strength in the multifamily market to sell it.
We also sold a number of mezzanine loans that we don't lever mezzanine loans on our balance sheet.
So even though they were yielding 10% 11% or 12% we can recycle that money back through the floating-rate business.
And as we talked about FL4 generate 18.5% or in the CMBS business more than 20%.
So we've done that.
Listen we're an opportunistic user of capital and we're always monitoring our pipelines.
And our model has been to raise capital when we know that we can put it to work quickly and accretively and that will continue.
So do you think there is more -- is there more in the portfolio that can come out that can continue to generate that? Because I mean obviously those returns are pretty high.
And I don't know that -- I guess I want to ask you two different things.
At what point does your ability to generate that capital internally and redeploy it switch to buying stock back? Or run out just in general? Is there a point and what do you do at that point? We're continuing to look at the portfolio and we will -- it's a large portfolio and we will continue to harvest capital from that portfolio as we move forward.
It's always a balance because as you saw in asset and you lose the rental income so we want to do that when we can put the money again to work quickly so that we're generating returns on that capital going forward.
So that is part of our process and will continue.
Okay.
And I think from my perspective your ability to do that has been better than we've modeled.
And I'm just trying to gauge how much -- how many more good surprises are in there.
Well I understand that.
And you have to remember that we're one side of a transaction so it's easy for me to sit here and say we're going to sell out this this and this but you always have to have a buyer on the other end.
So that's our plan; we're confident that we can do it but it still transactional.
I would now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.