Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 and Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Ileana and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson President; and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 38442508.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performances.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres.
Thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT’s fourth quarter and 2015 year-end earnings call.
Before getting into the financial results I would like to visit [ph] the Board’s decision to reduce the common dividend this past December and then comment on the broader capital market environment.
The decision to reduce the dividend and retain capital while difficult was reached given the volatility in the capital markets.
Throughout the second-half of 2015 CMBS AAA spreads widened from 85 basis points in June to a 140 basis points at year-end and as high as a 170 basis points this year as liquidity declined and investors reduced exposure to risk.
With this backdrop coupled with RAIT’s use of the capital and securitization markets it became clear that the market had dramatically changed and we would not have access to new capital for some period of time.
Accordingly we sized the dividend to $0.09 per quarter which is covered by our expected 2016 and 2017 CAD while still selectively funding new loans and opportunistically reducing corporate leverage.
Today we continue to have the same view as the markets have remained volatile and spreads have yet to normalize.
So while 2015 was a solid year operationally for RAIT with just under $1 billion of loan production and CAD coming in within our expected range our results were more than overshadowed by larger macroeconomic concerns.
It’s uncertain how long these concerns will continue to impact the capital and securitization markets.
So what does this mean for RAIT as we look into 2016? We have an extremely flexible platform that can adjust to market conditions.
Accordingly we have right-sized the platform and are reducing expenses for the current environment.
We will continue to raise capital through the sale of non-core assets and allocate an appropriate amount of capital to support our lending platform.
As Jim will discuss in more detail we’re providing 2016 CAD guidance of $0.85 to $0.95 per share inclusive of $0.35 per share in CAD gains from property sales.
Now let’s talk about our 2015 results.
In 2015 CAD per share totaled $1.11 and CAD without gains when property sales was $0.78 per share.
Gross loan origination were $996 million.
Our floating-rate bridge loan securitizations performed extremely well in 2015 with no credit issues.
We continue to believe that first mortgage transition laid lending generates very good risk adjusted returns.
We closed our fifth floating-rate securitization in December and anticipate closing more floating-rate securitizations in 2016.
Our CMBS loan sale program unlike many others was profitable in each quarter of 2015 as we effectively managed originations through a volatile securitizations market.
In 2016 we will continue to originate in sale loans to the extent we’re comfortable current pricing will generate appropriate risk adjusted returns.
Net operating income from our owned property portfolio continues to grow and our asset and property management business has continued to deliver stable returns supported by the recurring fee streams we generate for managing Independence Realty Trust.
During the fourth quarter we had two legacy loans and mezzanine loan on an industrial portfolio and our first mortgage loan on an office tower transition into REO.
The industrial portfolio consists of 10 properties aggregating 1.6 million square feet.
We have a plan in place to improve the operating performance of the properties and then anticipate selling them individually.
We have characterized the office tower for redevelopment as we are in the early stages of a plan to develop one-third of the property into a mixed-use live/work urban style property which includes partial conversion into apartments.
Looking forward our 2016 and 2017 debt maturity profile is very manageable as the only unsecured corporate level maturity is the potential $30 million put this April associated with our 7% convertible senior bonds.
We are currently expecting bondholders will put the bonds back to the company and we are planning to retire them with available cash.
It’s also worth highlighting that we do not have capital markets based margin co-provisions in our various warehouse facilities and our banking relationships remain strong.
As we allocate available capital this year we will continue to assess new loan originations against the opportunistic repurchase of our securities.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
Before discussing the numbers I’d like to point out that supplemental package we published for the first time this quarter.
The supplemental contains additional portfolio and capital provision information as well as operating performance metrics and consolidating financial information.
This supplemental package is available on our website rait.com in the Investor Relation section.
CAD for the fourth quarter was $25.7 million or $0.28 per common share.
This includes $0.09 of property sale gains resulting in $0.19 of base CAD in Q4.
Year-to-date our CAD was $1.11 including $0.33 of property gains base CAD was $0.78 for 2015.
From a GAAP perspective for the fourth quarter we are reporting net income of $1.8 million or $0.02 per diluted share and $0.08 for the year ended December 31.
In our lending business during 2015 we saw net loan growth of $231 million.
New loan originations were $996 million loan repayments were $291 million and CMBS loan sales were $425 million.
Net interest margin declined in 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to the deconsolidation of the Taberna CDOs in late 2014 which were not present in 2015.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest margin increased due to increased loan production and reduced amortization of deferred financing costs.
From a credit perspective we increased our provisioning for loan losses to $2.4 million on higher loan volume and an increase in our watchlist loans.
While our non-accrual loans decreased to 2.2% of our loan portfolio we did see an increase in our watchlist loans related to our first mortgage loans collateralized by seven properties totaling $74.8 million that matures later this year.
We’re actively working with the borrower as he seeks to sell the assets.
We do expect the full recovery of our loan.
As at year-end our loan loss reserves were $17 million or 1.1% of our $1.6 billion loan portfolio.
We continue to see improvement in our real estate portfolio as well.
The supplemental package provides same-store portfolio results quarter-by-quarter and year-by-year.
All of our same-store categories saw an increase in net operating income with a 7.1% increase in the fourth quarter of 2015 and a 11.7% increase in 2015 when compared to the similar period in 2014.
As Scott highlighted we converted two loans to own real estate in Q4.
The first loan and a $11 million mezzanine loan on 10 industrial assets with 1.6 million square feet was converted in October of 2015.
We took control of the property after one property became vacant and the borrower decided not to invest additional equity for leasing and tenant improvements.
We expect full recovery of this investment.
The second loan at $57 million first mortgage on a 769 000 square foot office tower and 429 space apartment drives in downtown Cleveland was converted in December 2015.
We’ve identified a redevelopment plan to take 252 000 square feet approximately one-third of the building and convert the floors to 184 multifamily units.
The potential for significant upside exists in redeveloping office space to multifamily through higher per square foot rents increased NOI per square foot and a lower cap rate valuation.
Lastly during the fourth quarter we sold five properties and generated a gain of $19.1 million.
Three of these properties in multifamily and two were office properties.
Before discussing 2016 guidance I’d like to address adjusted book value.
As you see it is missing from our disclosures this quarter.
We adopted ABV in mid-2012 when our GAAP book value exceeded $13 per share due to the vagaries associated with the consolidation of the Taberna CDOs.
The primary purpose of ABV was to give investors a real book value without Taberna.
It’s been a year since we deconsolidated Taberna and after multiple discussions with the SEC staff regarding ABV we have agreed to remove it from our reported results for Q4.
We will also remove it from our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Before handing this call back to Scott let’s review our 2016 guidance.
Given current market conditions we are taking a relatively conservative view with our 2016 guidance.
As stated in our – in the earnings release we are guiding to 2016 CAD of between $0.85 to $0.95 per common share which includes $0.35 of gains in the sale of real estate assets or a base CAD of $0.50 to $0.60 per share.
This guidance assumes loan originations of between $200 and $500 million no projected CMBS gain on sale income and no new capital raise.
The decrease in our 2016 base CAD from the $0.78 of base CAD in 2015 is driven by reduced loan production estimates and the associated origination fees.
No projected CMBS gain on sale income in 2016 versus $7.2 million in 2015 and $10.5 million of less property net operating income associated with property sales in 2015 and 2016.
For Q1 we are expecting CAD between $0.12 and $0.14 per share.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thank you Jim.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
I want to talk a little bit about some of the volatility that we’ve seen obviously in the CMBS market.
How are you thinking about that in terms of your expectation for the own – your own kind of I guess conduit into this year? Is it kind of just going to be somewhat irrelevant or you’re going to maybe try to push a little bit harder now the spreads just kind of gapped out so much further? All right.
Hi this is Scott Davidson.
It’s clearly and as Scott Schaeffer alluded in his discussion point it’s been a very difficult market as spreads have been widening and pretty much only move in one way.
At the same time that the residual interest buyer – these buyers continued to exercise greater caution with regard to loans if they’re comfortable with.
So it’s been a very difficult market and the one that I think the only way you can rationally approach is with a great deal of caution.
You need excess margin.
You need to make sure that the loans that you’re closing at an easy and evident sale exit.
And it’s never smart to set in front of a moving train or catch a falling knife or whatever the ray analogy is.
So we like the market over a long periods of time because we think over a long periods of time it produces excess returns.
At the moment though the risk return doesn’t seem to be great.
And we’re exceedingly cautious because we’ve managed to do relatively well in the recent performance period and we want to make sure that we continue to.
So I would describe that as we like the business long-term but we’re really cautious right now.
And Dan that’s exactly why in our guidance we are being conservative and saying that we are not projecting CMBS gains.
We still are in the market.
We are – still are looking at loans.
We’re just began as Scott said we’re being very cautious relative to the pricing.
We’ve had no credit issues whatsoever it’s all about the pricing.
And our next question comes from the line on Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and thanks – appreciate you taking the question.
We touched on the new issue CMBS market and understand your pasture there.
And as I hear Scott’s comments of Scott Davidson that is that it sounds like you are going to step back and be very cautious but I don’t want to put words in your mouth.
But I heard that you’re going to try to keep your optionality in place and the event that that market does come back.
Did I hear you correctly there? You’ve heard us certainly correctly.
We like the market long-term.
I think it’s difficult at the moment but have faced that over long periods of time their excess returns that it can be drawn from it.
Great and thanks for clarifying Scott because we have seen some press reports or some companies that have actually officially thrown in the talent and shutdown.
So it’s good to know kind of where you guys stand with the longer-term view.
But on the other side of securitization in December you did your fifth floating-rate deal seem to be on fairly good terms like 75 advance rate LIBOR plus 2.60% something like in that neighborhood.
I’m just curious if you’re in touch with that market I have not seen much printed anyway in the press about new floating-rate CLO type financings.
I’m just curious if you think that market is viable for you in 2016 and tying that into the comments that your assumptions on your modeling are that you will have no access to additional capital? Are you including floating-rate CMBS in the definition of what you would consider access to capital? Thanks.
Well so there’s a multipart question there.
And as it relates to… Yes it was.
…right and Jim has sort of model capital usage going forward.
I’ll ask him at the end to sort of comment on that with his models and he is clearly on top of capital.
As it relates to the market you did note and you were right we did a deal in December and we were proud.
And in the middle of a relatively difficult market as investors looked at the quality of our collateral and we tried hard to structure the transactions more in a very straightforward manner and make them look more like sequential pace CMBS transactions and less like CLOs but there was greater response.
Okay.
We felt like there was great response for that transaction in the market and we were very happy that it’s not only got done but got done in a way that produce good economic returns for us.
And in some respects I believe and it’s my opinion that further validates the model because we could do it in that market I think we can continue to do it through other market.
So we like the exposure to the first mortgage loans.
We think that pricing is probably better and easier to achieve in this type of market then in the one that we saw previously.
It is hard to know as you correctly point out because there are a few deals done and not very many deals when they are done look exactly like ours whether that’s because they’re not as margin as whether that’s because it’s slightly different credit collateral characteristics whether that’s because there are different structural features in the transactions themselves.
There are therefore perfect analogies to our transactions and we become a little bit behold into the market at the time that we seek to enter it.
The good news is we don’t have to enter the market or we don’t plan on entering the market in the short-term.
And the long-term we feel [and so if] [ph] we’re able to get the deals done in December when it’s our turn to come we’re going to get our next deal done as well.
We’ve made plans for the execution – the bond execution being a little bit worse and we of course hope and we will try it very hard to make sure it’s a little bit better.
But notwithstanding that again over long periods of time we think we can produce really high risk adjusted returns as we like and as all begins and it all really ends in a lot of ways liking the credit quality associated with the underlying loans and the structures we are talking about become an efficient financing vehicle for them as long as we like the credit terms.
Great.
That color is helpful.
Jim? Hey Steve.
Yes this is Jim.
So our assumption around no capital what we mean by that is no equity capital issued and/or no additional recourse debt is issued.
So we do plan for securitization to happen.
Great.
Thank you for clarifying that and appreciate the comments guys.
Thank you Steve.
And our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
This is actually Ryan on for Jade.
First of all I think the supplemental provides a lot of good incremental disclosure especially surrounding the own real estate.
So as it relates to that can you talk about how management views current NAV of the portfolio? And given the amount of property sales you continue to forecast in 2016 can you say what types of percentage gains that those gains are implying on the real estate you are selling? Management’s view of NAV is one where similar to the discussion that we had on ABV there are a number of fee streams within the company that we created.
And as such they are not the underlying or GAAP value does not include any value for those fee streams and they are long-term recurring fee streams.
So the discussion we had with the SEC as Jim spoke about was related to how you mark those fee streams.
And we agreed that we would not continue to publish an adjusted book value where we were marking assets similar to that.
So we have the same difficulty with NAV.
I think you can look at the balance sheet of the company.
You can see the properties that we’re selling and they’re being sold largely with some gains.
And you can look at the fee streams that are generated from the property management and the asset management of IRT and make your own conclusions as to what you think the company is worth.
And we would love to be publishing numbers but we just feel it’s again pursuant to the discussions that we’ve had that we should stop frankly.
Great.
That’s really helpful.
And then just regarding management’s overall view of the market and the cycle just given the larger amount of scrutiny that CRE has been getting across the board from regulators.
Can you talk about management’s view of the current environments and particularly as it relates to the balance sheet business how the volatility is impacting underwriting standards and structures for the new loans that you are originating? Well we all know that the environment is driven largely by the capital markets has become more difficult.
However from an underlying credit perspective unless you’re focused on regions that are currently that are experiencing difficulty related to some event in that region whether that’s energy related or something specific to another location.
We really haven’t seen fundamental credit performance at least from my knowledge change particularly dramatically for the commercial real estate generally.
So we’re in the happy circumstance of being able to look and analyze real estate credit in the fundamental way that we always have ground up bottom up lease by lease location by location while at the same time given the capital markets dislocation being able to be as firm as we ever have been with regard to credit terms with regard to leverage with regard to the structures that we’re providing to individual borrowers.
And in some sense it probably feels a little bit like the markets likely to come to us.
That is to say 12 or 18 months ago we may have being willing to make a loan and found that perhaps that others in the market might on the margin be more aggressive as it relates to credit terms.
We didn’t sort of move ours to match and maybe lost loans on the margin as a consequence.
Today it feels like if we want to make a loan at our credit terms we’re able to and then the discussion becomes what’s the right price.
And we’re not really losing loans because someone is being more aggressive on credit.
I think our view of credit has been stable and it’s probably more has always been more in line with where the market is today.
The challenge comes to somebody who wants to do something.
It’s not economic from a place perspective and it also doesn’t feel like it’s a good environment to be usually aggressive from a pricing perspective regardless of whether that’s a fixed rate CMBS loan or a floating-rate loan.
So I don’t know if that answers your question.
but it definitely seems like the credit terms we’re able to get in today’s market are relatively advantageous and more consistent with the market that we would like.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks.
Yes I just want to ask kind of a follow-up As I think about the right side of the balance sheet as we go into 2016 I was wondering how are you viewing kind of like the current leverage of the company and thoughts maybe to potentially or if there are opportunities maybe take that down at all and maybe there’s some debt that’s coming due some converts coming due and so forth? We view the right side of the balance sheet probably the same way as you do Dan.
We would like to bring the leverage down.
It’s our intention to do so.
Part of the capital allocation analysis that we went through at the end of last year was recognizing that we have – we put on the 7% convertible bonds coming this April and we wanted to make sure that we had sufficient liquidity to just write the check frankly and pay that off when it comes.
But we’re also looking at our other unsecured debt and where it’s trading and recognizing that that current levels that could be a good investment as well.
Okay.
And then maybe just also thinking about it towards the end of the year I think you all executed another securitization I guess when you did it but were you happy about with the execution and the pricing regard? And I guess if you were to go back in some market today for a new deal what do you think pricing looks like or is that market maybe closed? Your first question we’re happy with the transaction at December we were.
For a host of reasons most importantly we were able to get it done in a very very difficult environment at terms that we thought provided strong economics.
Whether or not if your question is is the market open today I believe that if we had a transaction to bring that was similarly structured that there would be a market for us and our investors would probably be quite interested in it.
What the spread might be is – and the execution is anybody’s guess since December generally the credit markets have gotten worse.
The markets are more difficult.
And the conversation I would suspect if I were a bond investor I would ask for wider spread and of course if I were at RAIT I would argue that we’ve got the best credit quality collateral of our loans.
We’ve done more deals than anyone else and investors would be lucky to buy our bonds in a tighter spread and we have a discussion between those two pools I’m sure.
But having said that we are recognizing as Scott says that the bond investors might be looking for wider spreads.
And we take that into consideration as we’re originating new floating-rate loans on the asset side.
Yes.
And again that’s a great segway just my last question.
I mean how fast can you maybe adjust the rate card or as you’re monitoring what’s going on in CMBS land or CLO land how fast can you react to where the capital markets are pricing when you go out to folks and think about trying to lock-in a new loan? The only thing that we can’t do is adjust the coupon on loans that are already closed.
Absent that we can and do react on a daily basis with regard to where we think spreads are and prices are.
So as long as loan isn’t closed we avail ourselves of the ability and do change spreads according to market.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Dan.
And our next question comes from the line of David Walrod with Ladenburg.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Given your new CAD guidance and your modeling for 2016 I know a lot of this can change.
But at this point you would envision that you will need to adjust the dividend again to meet current operating requirements or do you – is that and that’s the thing you’re looking at this point? No and thank you for the question.
To clarify that’s what I said in my earlier remarks that at the $0.09 the dividend is covered through 2016 and 2017 assuming no new capital raises and zero gains from CMBS sales.
So we’ve taken a conservative view relative to loan production and profitability and the dividend at $0.09 is still covered for the next 24 months.
Great.
And then also Scott you briefly commented in your opening remarks about potential for a share buyback.
Can you address that please? Well I said securities.
And we’re always looking at it and we’re always discussing it with the Board.
At this time we’re looking at where the liabilities are trading and recognizing that lower leverage in times of stress is better.
That’s really where we’re focused at the moment.
But we are constantly discussing all securities with the Board.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d now like to turn it back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes today’s program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.