Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday April 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
Alright good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this call management will make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business management’s plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during the call management will refer to EBITDA which is the non-GAAP financial measure and in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and EBITDA on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Last night we reported revenue of $414 million EBITDA of $93.3 million and a net income of $15.5 million or $0.19 per diluted share for our first quarter results.
The quarter evolved as we expected and as we previously discussed on our last earnings call.
There was slightly better performance in the U.S.
land market than what we originally projected.
As expected the Gulf of Mexico activity had a significant decline from the fourth quarter with revenue down 18%.
We did see an increase in accommodation rental in the Gulf but drill pipe rentals were lower.
We also experienced a decline in completion production and end-of-life project work due to seasonality and a lack of permitting during the quarter pretty much exactly as we expected.
International revenue declined 18% primarily due to lower utilization for vessels performing at subsea inspection repair and maintenance work.
We did experience a slight uptick in international revenue for our Drilling Products and Services due to growth in Brazil West Africa Asia and the Middle East.
Activity in the domestic land markets continues to grow.
Although our revenue grew 5% some of our larger core product lines like coiled tubing and downhole drilling tools witnessed a revenue increase of 12% as compared with the 2% increase in the drilling rig count.
We adjusted our guidance lower to reflect the $500 million senior note offering that Robert will discuss shortly.
So the new earnings per share range is $1.62 to $2.02.
From an operational standpoint we are maintaining the same outlook and guidance that we provided in our last call as the same factors and drivers apply.
We believe the fourth quarter of 2010 excluding the special charges will be a good baseline for the second quarter of this year with the additional growth potential coming from new assets that are currently being deployed.
Our capital spending plans for 2011 are on track.
We successfully placed 2 additional coiled tubing units in the field to date and expect 5 additional coiled tubing units to be delivered before the end of the second quarter.
We are encouraged by the pace of deepwater drilling permits.
Our customers have contacted us for downhole drilling tools on most of the permitted projects so we are hopeful that these permits will result in new drilling activity very soon.
Shallow water market is beginning to improve as it always does this time of year.
This should mean increased demand for intervention and end-of-life services in liftboats.
We are in the process of starting 2 international decommissioning projects one involving P&amp;A work in Indonesia that I spoke to you about last quarter and the other performing platform removal work in the Red Sea.
Finally we expect higher utilization for our subsea operating vessels in Southeast Asia and other parts of the eastern hemisphere as the number of projects we're bidding on has increased since the first quarter.
Robert will walk you through some of the financials in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $262 million and income was up from operations with $11 million which represents sequential decrease of 15% and 54% respectively.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 22% to $84 million with Marine Engineering and Product Management services incurring the largest reduction due to a slowdown in shallow water activity.
International revenue was $62 million down 27% primarily due to reduced demand for vessels performing subsea inspection and repair and maintenance work.
We also experienced a decline in pressure control work [ph].
Domestic land revenue increased 3% to $116 million highlighted by a 10% increase in coiled tubing which was partially offset by a lower demand for pressure control services.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $128 million and income from operations was $21.7 million which represents a 7% sequential increase in revenue and a 30% sequential increase in operations.
First quarter was a great example of the high incremental margins in this segment.
Drilling Products and Services have relatively low-cost so a higher percentage of incremental revenue falls to the bottom line as was the case in most of the quarter.
Our domestic land revenue increased 10% to $63 million as the result of increased demand for premium drill pipes bottomhole assemblies and accommodations.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue grew 8% to $26 million due to an increase in rentals of accommodation units.
Revenue from the international markets increased 1% sequentially to $39 million primarily due to the increased rental for premium drill pipes and accessories.
In the Marine segment revenue decreased 21% to $23.7 million while income from operation was $1.2 million which excludes the gain on sales of liftboats.
Liftboat utilization decreased to 57% from 72% in the fourth quarter of 2010 as the result of seasonal factors and reduced permitting for shallow water projects.
We pulled 3 liftboats from our 145 155 fleet as we continue to focus on larger liftboats that support our shallow water Gulf of Mexico operations.
In March we exchanged our 33% equity interest in SPN Resources and 25% equity interest in abandoned oil and gas for a 10% limited partnership interest in Dynamic Offshore Resources.
This was done to simplify the structure of our holdings.
The value of our investment in the larger entities is essentially the same as the value of our equity ownership was in the 2 smaller entities.
As a result we expect the same earnings contributions and proposition is essentially unchanged.
We will continue to account for this holding using the equity notes.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter the face value of our debt due to the discount was approximately $869 million down from $888 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
On our last earnings call we mentioned that we would most likely go to the debt market to essentially refinance our convertible debt which became equitable [ph] and callable on December 15 2011.
Last week we raised $500 million of 6.375% senior notes which removes the refinancing risks associated with convertible notes.
With interest rates at or near historical lows we felt the timing is right in fact we believe our transaction represents one of the hardest [ph] ever for in an oilfield services high-yield offering.
As the result of the financing our interest expense will increase by approximately $22 million for the remainder of 2011 or about $0.18 per share which is the sole reason for the lower guidance that Dave provided.
This is a temporary increase as the double carried interest will go away once we redeem the convertible notes in December.
In fact we expect quarterly interest expense in 2012 to be in the range of $15 million.
We will use part of the proceed to pay down the revolver which is at 0 today.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the first quarter was 2.1 the same as at year end.
Debt-to-total capital was 40% as compared to 41% at the end of the year.
Our days and sales outstanding which is a primary focus of our working capital management program was 79 days at the end of the first quarter as compared with 90 days at year-end.
Capital expenditures during the first quarter were $108.6 million.
We spent $41.1 million in the Drilling Products and Services segment primarily for drill pipe and specialty tubulars on land and international and $66.8 million in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment including $22.7 million for ongoing construction of the Compact Semi-Submersible.
From a modeling perspective in the second quarter we think you should model the G&amp;A in the range of $89 million to $92 million and for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $63 million to $66 million.
We had anticipated 36% effective income tax rate in the second quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave for closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Robert.
We are beginning to see signs of life in what has been a beleaguered Gulf of Mexico market.
The pace of deepwater drilling permits has been good during the past month.
However I'm sticking to my guns for now and reaffirming that we should expect about 15 deepwater rigs drilling oil and gas wells by the end of 2011.
Seasonally we are entering a historically strong 3-year for activity and work over Intervention and Decommissioning business.
In addition our Completions business will also benefit from additional activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
The subsea construction market is looking better than we have seen in the past year.
We are not anticipating a total recovery in Hallin Marine's business until 2012 but I would not be surprised to witness some improvement before the end of 2011.
We are still very positive about continued growth during 2011 and beyond.
Our focus in the U.S.
land markets particularly in the Bakken Marcellus and Eagle Ford has been timely.
With the continued emphasis from our customers to exploit oil and liquids-rich gas reservoirs I expect the land rig count to continue to migrate higher during the course of the year with an even greater emphasis on horizontal completion.
Our areas of capital investment focus including coiled tubing premium drill pipe and pressure control rentals will all benefit from this continued improvement in the market.
The labor market in the U.S.
is very competitive.
We are very fortunate to have attracted the personnel that we need for our labor-intensive product lines in the U.S.
While the low fixed costs associated with the Drilling Products and Service business allows us to grow our revenue base without demanding significantly more personnel from an already tight labor pool and many of our focus basis [ph].
We've also been fortunate in having placed our new equipment orders early enough last year that we are receiving the bulk of our new revenue generating assets on time on schedule.
I expect that robust oil prices and an ongoing bright demand forecast will support very strong growth in the international markets.
I believe that the markets we have selected for building out our multi-product line operations will deliver growth this year and for many years to come.
In addition to Brazil and Australia we will be speaking to you in the coming months about new additions to this international growth network.
Demand is certainly stout for a new competitor and I am very confident that we have selected the right local managers to create opportunities for Superior.
That ends our prepared comments.
We'll turn the call back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will be from the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Dave as you think about or as you talked about your international expansion over the next couple of years you've highlighted certainly Brazil and then Australia is next -- I know a lot of the CapEx or the international CapEx for this year is going into Brazil.
Could you possibly elaborate on how the ramp-up in your business specifically is going in Brazil? And then secondarily how we should think about capital as it flows into Australia? Sure James.
Things are going very well on the expansion in Brazil.
I was down there about 3 or 4 weeks ago.
I think I've mentioned to you in the past that we've got a significant facility under construction there which is progressing.
That facility is in Macaé.
It is at least part of our overall capital spend plan for Brazil this year.
But the bulk of our spending there will go towards additional assets on the rental side of the business.
Our management team there is working very hard to gain access to some service contracts which I hope to be able to talk to you more about that success as the year progresses.
One thing that you see in Brazil is just extreme activity build up coming from Petrobras.
I believe they are now targeted to be at 70 deepwater rigs working just with Petrobras by the end of 2012.
And so there's quite a bit of tightness overall from a supply standpoint in the market.
I know that as I travel around Macaé we're not only the big facility that's under construction down there.
So clearly a lot of demand.
Our focus from a CapEx standpoint in Brazil will be on rentals for the most part this year but I do expect that we'll see some services opportunities to develop for us from a contracted standpoint with Petrobras before the end of 2011.
And what I've tried to do is to ensure that we have capital available to take advantage of those contract opportunities that come up.
Australia also gaining some CapEx during the course of the year from a rental standpoint.
We're probably 6 months behind in Australia where we are today in Brazil.
So as the year goes on I think there our specific capital demand requirements will firm up.
And once again we've established as part of our capital budget a significant amount for Australia as their opportunities develop.
And Dave you hired a country manager for Australia at this point? Yes.
Our country manager came on board January 1st.
That follows the addition of our Brazil manager which was I think in August of 2010.
Okay.
And then just an unrelated follow-up here with the Gulf of Mexico ramping back up I think a lot of these drill pipe had been consumed more on land here in recent quarters.
I know you've put in orders for additional drill pipe but is there a potential that we could see a short squeeze on kind of equipment and some limiting factors to rigs going back to work as the result of that? If I'm right about 15 rigs drilling for oil and gas in the deepwater arena by the end of December I don't think we're going to see a squeeze.
There'd be a squeeze if that pace of activity really accelerated.
And the assets that we transferred out from the deepwater arena -- we transferred out everything that we could back in June of last year.
But as a percentage of our total assets in the deepwater Rental business it's relatively small 25% may be the most.
And so we still have capacity in that business and we did it -- we put together the capital budget and particularly the budget related to drill pipe.
Better recognition that there may be some point later in the year where we need to spend some money on pipe for deepwater drilling.
And so that was part of our plan but overall the pipe that we're adding to the businesses this year the overwhelming majority of that is going to the U.S.
land market and to the international markets.
And our next question will be from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Dave when I think about if I was going to take the overrun of the Gulf of Mexico deepwater rig count this year and assuming there were 20 rigs active rate can you give me a sense as to how the margin progression looks in Subsea and Well Enhancement from this point? I think you guys did about 8% EBIT margins in Q1.
You've got a lot of different things going on.
You've got Hallin utilization picking back up.
You've got the Gulf picking back up.
Can you help me out with how the balance of the year looks from a margin perspective in that segment? Yes.
So I mean first off on the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment it's really not significantly impacted by deepwater activity.
Our deepwater -- our benefit from the additional deepwater rigs you really witness in the Drilling Products and Services segment.
So just to clarify that.
You really don't see deepwater impact at Subsea and Well Enhancement.
We are expecting that Subsea and Well Enhancement segment to improve during Q2 and really I think the best way to think about this is if you go back and look at where we were in Q4 and consider that that's probably a reasonable starting point for where we'll be in Q2 that's kind of the way we look at things.
As of Q1 being impacted seasonally is a result of the typical weather conditions that we see in Q1 people not wanting to take on optional work in the Gulf of Mexico and that's a lot of what we do in that segment the Gulf is optional work.
Instead they use better weather windows for that work and that really started in April this year.
So if you think of [indiscernible] in Q2 as being similar from a baseline standpoint in that segment that's a good starting point.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the change in permitting requirements for P&amp;A and decommissioning given the other issues that the BOEM is dealing with on the rig permitting side and whether that's going to impact the recovery in those businesses? Well I mean from a permitting standpoint the pace is just in general been slow.
There were some additional requirements that were put in place back in the summer of last year relative to BOP and BOP certification.
That does apply to some of those activities but the pace has just been slow.
I think the only area where I've heard of people being a bit slow in achieving permits from BOEM that I'd say might be a new risk that's out there is related to this Marine Mammals Act that's concerned about issues with explosives related to decommissioning.
So yes that's really kind of the only new issue that I've seen out in recent months related to the permit activities in these areas.
What I'll tell you is the pace has just been slow.
[indiscernible] a lot longer for the operators to get these things through BOEM.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then finally I think there was a milestone on the receivable from BP on the last platform that you guys got the permit to get cut lags you would get paid has that happened yet? Well what we're waiting on is reefing permit.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So in terms of the reefing permit has that been granted yet? It's not been granted yet.
You'll know when it gets granted because the receivable from BP will be following shortly behind that.
But that's been a category in general a permit that really were slow prior to the moratorium and have been very slow since.
And I know I'm speaking to some other players in the industry not necessarily competitors but customers that are also waiting for reefing permits for some of their activities they've all been slow.
Our conversations with the Bureau have been very positive as far as achieving that permit.
At this point we have no reason to believe we won't.
It's just been slow coming.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay that does it for me.
And our next question will be from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil Incorporated.
A question for you you touched a little bit on CapEx spend here and I guess we've noted a significant amount of CapEx this year is going into domestic operations.
You clearly have identified Brazil and Australia as 2 important areas.
I'm just curious given the senior note raise we did you guys getting another $100 million I guess more than what you initially had gone to market with was there any thought of -- especially on the rental tool side maybe accelerating some of the international spending here as opposed to just paying down the revolver? I know the lead times to getting rental tools are pretty quick here or pretty short I should say.
Any thoughts there? At this point I'd have to say no.
I think I would prefer to stay within operating cash from an organic growth standpoint.
And when we went to market we were extremely pleased last week with the response we saw to our debt offering and I'm pleased with the overall rate and in general the overall terms that we received as a result of that note.
We decided to upsize it just to give us a little bit of running room if there are any small kind of tuck-in acquisitions that may be available to us out there that would help to accelerate this geographic expansion plan we have some of this select international markets as well as U.S.
land.
I wouldn't expect though that you'd see us increase what we have in place today for the 2011 capital spend program.
Okay.
And I guess just as a follow up on the subsea side I guess as we think about typically seasonally second and third quarter being your strongest quarters but would you like -- you told us you know not so long ago about how painful the permitting process has been and certainly with the idle iron requirements out there -- do we expect that as we look at guidance and think about subsea that maybe fourth quarter perhaps is more resilient than what typically we would see as we kind of just think about the progression here and you don't see maybe the seasonal drop off because you guys just look to stay very active here over the balance of the year or get busier? Yes well I mean I think just to -- let me see if I can address your point this way.
We are always busy with this type of work in the second and third quarter.
It typically falls off some in the fourth quarter as we enter into that more difficult weather wind up.
What I can tell you is we'll be busy with that work in the second quarter and we'll be busy with it in the third quarter.
I think everyone's been waiting for a potential uptick in this idle iron type business which if we see that uptick in 2011 it'll be in the fourth quarter because Q2 and Q3 are always busy.
We haven't necessarily added a bunch of capacity in that business and we're going to be busy in Q2 and Q3 this year but I don't think it has anything to do with an idle iron initiative.
It's just due to the fact that that is typically the weather window that our customers like to work in.
So I know there is anticipation about uptick in this idle iron business.
Visibility on it at this moment in time is very poor.
I think that visibility will begin to improve as we get out later in Q3 and start to see what the book of business is going to look like in Q4.
And if it's an increase that's when we'll see it.
And if we see that increase in Q4 then it'll spill over into Q1 of 2012 as well.
And our next question will be from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Dave just maybe a couple of big picture bottom line questions.
I know you're sticking to your 15 rigs deepwater but recall the biggest delta and the guidance for this year was going to be how activity proceeded in the Gulf.
And kind of curious now that we're a quarter into this -- actually a quarter or a month and you've seen permitting activity has your -- are you leaning in one direction or the other at this point from the midpoint of the range just kind of based on what you're seeing so far or are you still kind of...
It's too early to call at this point.
I mean we certainly have been encouraged by the permits that have come through.
But you will recall what happened when they began -- when BOEM began issuing permits for shelf drilling is we saw a kind of a rapid pace and then it began to trail off a bit.
My concern is the same -- same thing is going to happen here with the deepwater.
And so I need to see it happen in the marketplace a little bit more before I'm willing to feel like that upper end of the guidance range is where we want to be.
So I'm sticking to my guns for 15 rigs.
I hope to be wrong about that.
I hope when we speak again next quarter on this call that I can talk about that pace of permits continuing to be good and maybe looking at increasing that end of December rig count estimate that I have out there but I'm just not ready to call it yet.
Inc.</strong> It makes sense.
And as I think about CapEx for this year obviously big numbers and you've detailed where all that's going.
Maybe a little timing of that obviously 1Q still pretty early and as this capital flows into equipment during the course of the year and we think about how that translates into 2012 it seems like given your kind of 1Q actual 2Q guidance relatively speaking a lot of the earnings are back half weighted this year which kind of makes sense.
And I think it seems like capital allocation or divest -- being deployed is going to be a little more back half weighted which obviously portends good things for '12.
Is that -- am I reading that right? Well just a couple of corrections to that.
Our capital budget is actually front-half of the year loaded about 60% of the overall spend will take place before the end of June.
And this was done in order to take advantage of having those assets down the field during the second half of the year.
So clearly you get a full-year benefit from the spend here in 2012 but 60% of it coming in the first quarter is a good benchmark for that.
If you look at the coiled tubing fleet that we are putting out into the field this year: A total of 8 units 7 of those units are delivered before the end of Q2; 2 of them have been delivered already; 5 of them has come into the field during the second quarter.
And so by the time you get to the July 1st we've got 7 additional coiled tubing units out of 8 that are already in place.
Drill pipes spend is a little more evenly spaced during the course of the year but I already said overall of $500 million 60% is coming in as a spend before the end of June.
So that is part of the reason why we feel like the second half of the year from an earnings growth standpoint look very strong and need to feel that way.
I'll tell you what I really feel like we did an excellent job here in the second half of last year planning out some of what we believe those capital spend items would be in.
And I made a comment during our prepared comments that I've been very pleased with the fact that our delivery schedule for the big assets that we're bringing in is right on target.
Inc.</strong> That's very good color.
And then just one little follow-up liftboats continue to kind of selloff some of the low-end of the fleet is that something you expect to continue? Yes.
I think that's been a strategy of the company since before I came on board and it's one that we'll continue to pursue.
We understand what customers are looking for in a marketplace.
We know that the strategy of this company being involved in the liftboat business is largely related to our ability to carry out other types of equipment and that's much more -- that's something we have much better opportunity to do with the bigger boats than the smaller boats.
And our next question will be from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> Dave Bullwinkle could you kind of update us on the status out there either in terms of or both in terms of sort of the equity production levels your trending towards? And I guess the P&amp;A schedule there has bounced around a little any change to what you're contemplating on that side? Well I don't know that it's changed significantly from what we talked about last quarter from a production standpoint with the guys there's Dinamic and [ph] out there in some of the intervention activities that have taken place.
We did not complete any P&amp;As with Bullwinkle in the first quarter but we didn't plan on starting to carry out any P&amp;As in the first quarter.
They get one or 2 in in the second quarter but we're not planning on it at this point.
What we've told you guys in guidance last quarter was we expect the P&amp;A at Bullwinkle this year to be carried out the second half of the year.
There's quite a bit of intervention work that's going on on the structure it has been since Q1 and carrying it out in Q2.
So we're not planning to do any P&amp;As.
We could wind up sneaking one in before the end of Q2 but it's not part of our guidance at this point yet.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay great.
And then on the Hallin side what's your current level of visibility into work programs? I know the outlook's improving there but it's the work programs for maybe the 2 new built Hallin assets in the third and the fourth quarters? Well okay so visibility on near-term projects is quite good.
You know you got to keep in mind that in this business most of the contracts tend to be shorter-term contracts.
A long-term contract for these vessels is 3 weeks.
So your visibility quarters from now is generally based on what you see as tender backlog.
And what I've noticed in that business over the course of last several months is that the backlog for tenders 3 months even 6 months out seems to be building which it gives me some reasons to believe that we're going to see a bit more robust market going forward with the Hallin Marine boats.
I'd tell you that the second quarter book of business looks very good.
We were extremely busy with the boats from Hallin in the fourth quarter of 2010.
They were very slow in the first quarter of 2011 and I think that the second quarter is going to look a lot more like the fourth quarter did.
And that's really just based on well obviously the work we have going on at the moment as well as what I see out there in May and June from a tendering activity standpoint.
So it's started to gives me reasons to be feel somewhat encouraged about the Hallin business.
I'm not ready to go out there and call it a recovery just yet.
Certainly our revenue and profitability numbers from last quarter wouldn't cause me to do that.
But you know just as  I get a feel for it and talk to the management team over there about what their activity looks like for the second half of 2011 I'm feeling a bit better about it.
We said when the Hallin business kind of started heading -- turning south last year that we thought this construction market in the Eastern Hemisphere would be a bit soft for 12 to 18 months.
That kind of takes us out to 2012 before we really begin to experience any significant recovery.
And I still feel like that's an accurate call.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one just as a point of clarity your comments on the fourth quarter as a baseline I'm right to read those as pretty specific to Subsea and Well Enhancement correct? I mean it's the majority of the overall business but that was the focus of that comment not...
That's exactly right.
I mean the other 2 segments a little bit different particularly from a Drilling Products and Services standpoint -- I mean as we add assets as we see some deepwater rigs go back to work certainly we expect the second quarter of 2011 in Drilling Products and Services to be better than what we saw in the fourth quarter.
And our next question will be from the line of John Daniel from Simmons &amp; Company.
Dave just some big picture questions really.
You and others have a lot equipment that's going to be delivered this year and it seems like the number one problem we hear from service companies is the labor issue.
And my question is should we expect as we go forward delays in deployment of new assets perhaps due to the inability to man the equipment? I have 0 expectation that we will see a delay in putting those assets to work as a result of labor.
What I've witnessed from our more service-intensive business in the U.S.
which is really for us is coiled tubing -- what I witnessed from those guys is they have been very successful on attracting the people that we need in order to man that new equipment that's coming out.
And really John I think part of the advantage we have here is that we don't have a whole bunch of these service-intensive businesses that exist in the land market in the U.S.
And so when we've got that help wanted sign posted on the door outside in Odessa Texas a guy applies and passes his drug screening and is going to go to work in coiled tubing.
And I'd have to make a choice does he go to coiled tubing or does he go to some other service-intensive product line -- that's what we attract them for and that's what we hire them for.
I think the other side of that benefit is on the rental side of the business we're low fixed cost we're not extremely variable from a headcount standpoint as our business grows.
So we don't necessarily need very many people.
And I think that that's clearly a benefit that we are experiencing.
I certainly hear in the industry and we witnessed first-hand how tight the labor markets are in some of the very active shale basins as well as just some traditional basins out there.
I was in Midland a few weeks ago in West Texas in one of those areas -- Permian Basin labor is very tight.
We're just -- I think we're fortunate that we only have a limited number of this service and businesses and so we have been successful on attracting people that we need.
Okay.
A couple of quick ones.
The coil tubing units the 8 that you've got on order are those backed by contracts or there's more or less spot exposure? I would not characterize what we're getting is necessarily contracts.
There are certainly commitments -- we have customers that are waiting for each one of those units and they have talked to us about the idea as soon as the units are delivered they're ready to take them right away.
But the U.S.
land market overall is a market that is -- your market share your access to customers your access to work is based on how you did on the last job.
So an execution is based on safely executing it.
So as long as you're out in the field with a customer and you are executing and doing it in a safe way and the demand is high enough they're going to send you out to the next location.
All right fair.
Last one just sort of using your crystal ball if you will.
As you think about the international expansion -- and you noted even when you are down in Brazil lots of people building facilities things like that how do we think about the pricing for new entrants going in there and just the margin expectations relative to your existing businesses? Well what we've started with in Brazil has been rentals.
And certainly the margins that we see in the Rental business there I think are similar to what we see in the Rental business in the U.S.
branches.
Probably at this point not as strong as margins that we realized from the deepwater Rental Tool business but I expect as gain additional shares we have more assets and overall critical mass in the revenue side of the business in Brazil that we'll be migrating upwards from a market standpoint.
It's just -- it's once again it's that low fixed-cost business and so that incremental -- that incremental bit of revenue that you generate out of this business is going to come at a higher profit point.
Pricing there -- listen pricing in Brazil is competitive.
It always has been competitive.
That's what Petrobras demands.
But -- and so I'm not thinking of that business I'm thinking where we're going to see a lot of price migration upward price migration as we go forward.
But I think the margins that we can expect to generate there on the rental side as well as what we wind up doing on the service side are going to be -- is going to be good and strong.
And I know that's what we ought to expect out of a market like Brazil and I haven't see anything that would cause me to think otherwise at this point.
Okay alright.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will be from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital.
LLC</strong> Dave a couple of questions for you.
One is in your prepared remarks you called out the Bakken the Marcellus and the Eagle Ford as areas -- maybe a particular focus in the U.S.
land side.
As you've been answering questions a couple of times you brought up the Permian.
Are we going to hear the Permian as one of those focused areas in the near future? Yes I think that you will.
We already have a presence in the Permian basin but I think that as I speak to our managers of those businesses that there is additional demand in what we do in the Permian basin and we're going to try and find some opportunities to take advantage of that.
I think the big question in the Permian basin as far as activity goes is I think there is a tremendous demand for additional rigs and additional activity in the Permian basin.
There'll be bumping up against the overall labor situation I think soon.
Not unlike what we see in North Dakota and that's first time in my career that I've witnessed it to that point in the Permian basin.
But the labor market's tight out there.
I don't think for what we do to that tight labor market is going to restrict our ability to grow in the Permian but it may be for some others.
LLC</strong> Is it fair to say that if it's restricted other activity that could have a spillover effect to you even though you're not necessarily staff-constrained? Well it could.
I mean if there were an appetite for another 25% or 30% drilling rigs in the Permian basin but drilling contractors or whoever couldn't find the people who will man those assets then it would prevent the market from growing to where our customers would like to see it go.
LLC</strong> And then just change gears on you a bit in the Rental business how should we think about steel and specifically tubular prices? And how do those impact your tubular Rentals business? So the way to think about that is as we see commodity prices increase in steel -- and those are prices that historically we've been able to pass on to our customers when we see the tube price increase -- as for new pipe or old pipe.
LLC</strong> Great that does it for me.
Our next question will be from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden.
LP</strong> This is Chris Enright in for Jeff.
Can you speak a little bit towards the international progress with respect to the Sand Control business? Yes sure.
So I think I mentioned in the past that we acquired these assets from Baker Hughes back in August that we would be spending time during 2011 in trying to gain exposure for that product line into the international markets.
And have not tried to build an expectation that there would be a lot of international revenue during 2011.
That's still my expectation.
However as I speak to the group there they are getting some traction in some of the international markets and I hope to be able to report to you sometime this year about some successes that we've had and maybe actually to some revenue generation that we have in the international market.
I'm not quite ready to call it yet but I'm optimistic that we'll see some international revenue generated in 2011 associated with that product line.
And when I speak of that product line just to be specific we are talking about the tools the completion tools.
LP</strong> Great.
In your guidance is there any contribution baked in from the Gulf of Mexico of stimulation vessels? There's not anything baked in that would be different from what we experienced in Q4.
So when we -- that business fits into the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment.
And I think what I said about those vessels is kind of consistent with the comment I made in general about drawing comparisons between Q4 2010 and Q2 2011.
And there's not really any substantial change in those vessels performance over the timeframe.
LP</strong> Okay.
And just to remind me they didn't do much in the fourth quarter is that correct? That's correct.
They didn't do much.
LP</strong> Great that's it for me.
And at this time I'm showing no further questions.
I'd like to turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we certainly appreciate all of you joining us and we'll speak to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
If you would like to listen to the replay of today's conference please dial (303)590-3030 and use the access code 4432547.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.