Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded today October 27 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead.
All right good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters and the company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and these items on the website.
I will now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Last night we reported quarterly -- record quarterly revenue of $565 million EBITDA of $177 million and net income of just under $60 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
Our performance was in line with our expectations thanks to the continued strength of the U.S.
land markets the gradual improvement of the Gulf of Mexico and the steady growth we are achieving internationally.
Without question growth in the U.S.
land market is the major factor driving our third quarter performance as revenue increased almost 16% through a quarterly record of $229 million.
The record results reflect high utilization for new capacity added during the year as we have invested about $170 million of CapEx in the U.S.
during the first 9 months of 2011.
The market continues to show an appetite for absorbing new capacity for virtually all of our intervention services and drilling products.
Our U.S.
land results would have been even stronger if not for weather interruptions in Pennsylvania during September.
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico activity continued to slowly migrate upward as a few more rigs were drilling during the quarter which benefited our completion services and premium drill type -- pipe businesses.
In fact completion services had its best quarter since we acquired the business in August of last year.
By our estimate there were 13 incremental rigs drilling in the deepwater of Gulf of Mexico at the end of the quarter.
This is out of a total floater count of 20 according to recent ODS-Petrodata rig report.
Our annual guidance calls for 15 incremental rigs drilling in the deepwater by the end of the year.
So far in October 2 additional rigs have been put to work so our guidance appears to be on track.
Activity in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico also improved.
But much like in Pennsylvania tropical weather disrupted activity for about a week in September.
International revenue increased to a record of $143 million due mostly to a 12% increase in Drilling Products and Services.
We continued to experience increased demand for premium drill pipe in Latin America especially in Brazil.
In addition snubbing and hydraulic workover activity increased in Peru and Trinidad.
Hallin Marine's results were down slightly as compared with second quarter due to costs incurred with transitioning the Ullswater from West Africa to Singapore for a project that starts in the Asia-Pacific market during the fourth quarter.
We could have left the Ullswater in West Africa but the backlog of work in Southeast Asia has grown to the point where it made more economic sense to bring the vessel to Asia.
Utilization at Hallin remained strong and has increased since the end of the third quarter as the vessel schedule is solid for the remainder of the year.
Hallin's revenue was slightly higher than in Q2 despite the downtime and higher costs.
We had strong incremental margins in Drilling Products and Services due to higher revenue and favorable business mix and in the Marine Segment as a result of lower maintenance and repair expenses.
Margins in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment were lower relative to the second quarter due to the weather-related downtime I mentioned earlier and the vessel transition costs at Hallin Marine.
Both of those issues are transitory and confined to the quarter.
Robert will walk you now through some of the financial detail and then I'll discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll turn the call over to our CFO Robert Taylor.
Thank you David.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter of 2011.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment revenue was $378 million and income from operation was $56 million which represents sequential increases of 12% and 9% respectively.
U.S.
land revenue increased 18% to $154 million.
We experienced higher demand across all of our intervention services with the largest increases coming from coiled tubing and wireline services as the market absorbed capacity added during the year.
Coiled tubing revenue increased 17%.
As you will recall we had put 8 new units to work during the first 9 months of the year.
Our wireline revenue was up 17% due to increased utilization in the Rockies Bakken Marcellus and Haynesville.
We also had a nice increase in pressure control services and hydraulic workover and snubbing services.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 14% to $128 million with some of the main increases coming from completion services pressure control and plug and abandonment services.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue includes about $9 million in revenue from a subsea containment project off the coast of Alaska.
Since it is an offshore project we categorized that revenue at the Gulf of Mexico to clearly to separate any -- from any traditional market area that we track.
International revenue was $96 million which represents an increase of 2%.
Hydraulic workover and snubbing services and completion services experienced the largest increases.
As Dave mentioned the margins were lower in this segment primarily due to weather and Hallin Marine.
At Hallin the Ullswater spent 45 days with no revenue as it transitioned back to Singapore for its next project after completing work in West Africa.
Also the Windermere had its drydocking in September for 24 days and the Penrith had its annual survey in September which took 10 days.
In the Drilling Products and Services Segment revenue was $164 million.
And income from operations was $43 million which represents a 10% sequential increase in revenue and a 45% sequential increase in income from operations.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 4% to approximately $41 million due to an increase in the rental of premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment as the market continues to experience a modest return of drilling and completion activity in the deepwater.
U.S.
land revenue increased 11% sequentially to approximately $75 million as a result of increased demand for accommodations drill pipe and bottomhole assembly.
The incremental operating margin was almost 94% primarily due to the business mix shifting towards premium pipe rentals and less equipment sales than the second quarter.
In the Marine Segment revenue decreased 5% to $24 million while income from operations declined 3% to $5.5 million.
As you may recall in the second quarter we reported a gain of $5.9 million related to the sale of 4 liftboats.
So on a normalized basis without the gain our third quarter income from operations increased by about $5.7 million over the second quarter.
Decrease in revenue is mostly attributable to weather-related downtime and fewer liftboats in the fleet.
Liftboat utilization increased to 77% from 70%.
Cost of services as a percentage of revenue was substantially lower due to a decrease in repairs and maintenance costs.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter the face value of our debt exclusive of discounts was approximately $1.2 billion.
This includes $400 million in convertible debt which will be paid off in December.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the third quarter was 1.5x as compared to 1.7x at the end of the second quarter.
Net debt to total capital was 35% as compared to 37% at the end of the second quarter.
Capital expenditures during the third quarter were $112.5 million.
We spent $51.6 million in the Drilling Products and Services Segment and $60 million in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment.
Year-to-date our capital expenditures have been just under $330 million.
From a modeling perspective in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $95 million to $97 million.
And for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $67 million to $69 million.
We'd anticipate our net interest expense to be about $20 million.
We are also modeling an effective income tax rate of 36%.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thank you Robert.
We have narrowed our earnings guidance to a range of $2.03 to $2.10 per share which leads the midpoint of our guidance unchanged from what we provided last quarter.
We believe the continued strength in the U.S.
land markets for our intervention services and drilling products as well as continued international growth will help to partially offset seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico during the fourth quarter.
For those of you that have followed the company for a while you know that seasonality during this time of the year in the Gulf of Mexico can take 2 forms: holidays and weather.
We know with relative certainty that activity for optional work like plug abandonment and other remedial projects slows down in December and stays at lower levels through much of the winter.
No customer wants to deal with a project of this nature during the holiday season.
The weather is a bit more uncertain.
Customers do not want to commence projects if the weather window is not certain for the duration of the work.
And while there's a great deal of unknown in trying to forecast the weather we believe our guidance range accounts for that variability.
We've not experienced any slowdown in our U.S.
land businesses nor have our customers indicated any near-term changes in demand for our products and services.
The supply chain remains so tight that new equipment is put on hire as quickly as it enters the market.
As a result we do not anticipate any changes to margins during the quarter.
Pricing has been well behaved as the product and service markets we compete in are highly fragmented.
We believe growth in the market comes from volume expansion as service intensity remains extremely high and smaller operators have had little access to the supply chain.
We expect that international revenue will continue to increase at its steady pace.
We'll see a pickup in revenue from completion tools in Brazil based on delivery of our Multi-Zone Single Trip system this quarter Hallin Marine is poised to have a good quarter of vessel utilization.
In fact we think 2012 is setting up to be an excellent year at Hallin based on recent project awards and backlog.
In summary the fourth quarter should shape up to be a solid closing to what has been a very good year for Superior.
Looking out to 2012 we are still formulating our budget and capital expenditure plans.
And we will be prepared to share the highlights of those efforts with you during the first quarter of 2012.
However let me discuss our current thinking with respect to the outlook for the U.S.
land markets.
We understand that there is a lot of uncertainty regarding activity levels next year.
Our view of the U.S.
market is that the range of potential outcomes for next year is very narrow and not enough to curtail activity increases for our products and services due to 3 key factors that we think will persist.
Those factors are supply chain constraints the growing backlog of wells drilled but not yet completed and the number of small operators with fully funded programs waiting to access the supply chain.
Let me provide you with data that supports our thesis about North America.
The Haynesville rig count is down about 26% since the end of 2010.
But our Haynesville completions and intervention revenue in the third quarter is up 28% as compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Service activity has not kept up with drilling due to the intensity required to complete and produce these wells and inefficiencies in the supply chain which is resulting in little correlation between the supply chain and the real-time rig count.
Here's another data point.
About 40% of the rigs drilling in the U.S.
today are contracted by private companies.
We believe that there are a lot of small single basin operators with fully funded drilling plans that can't even access a drilling rig.
If larger operators choose to let service equipment go I believe there's a backlog of customers that are ready to pick up that equipment.
Looking at some of our other geographic markets.
We think the Gulf of Mexico will add a few more rigs drilling in the deepwater during 2012.
Perhaps that number migrates up to the low 20s by the end of 2012.
Internationally we see a lot of opportunities to grow in Asia with subsea services and intervention services and in Latin America with drilling products and completion services.
We intend to open a location in Saudi Arabia in 2012 entering the market with pressure control services followed soon after by other intervention services.
From there we can pursue additional opportunities in Kuwait.
We're also carrying out market intelligence today in Argentina Malaysia and India.
Our 2012 outlook remains upbeat given the potential range of outcomes we see unfolding in the U.S.
the continued recovery in the Gulf of Mexico and new opportunities in several international markets.
Finally I've spent a lot of time with our employees and field managers during the past couple of weeks.
The more time that I spend with these people the easier it is for me to understand why we are having so much success at Superior.
We have great people that are delivering a great year to our shareholders and I want to thank them for their dedication and hard work.
And so I think now we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of James West of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> David it sounds like your CapEx for this year just the Superior CapEx is running a little bit light of what you expected to spend.
I think you were -- we were talking about close to $500 million I guess.
One am I right about that? And two do you think you'll get all that CapEx in the fourth quarter or does some slip into next year just because of supply chain issues? James you are correct.
We are behind in CapEx.
We really were behind in the first half of the year and continued to be behind after the third quarter.
We believe we're going to get very close still to the overall $500 million that we budgeted by the end of the year.
Of course it's all coming in later.
So -- at this point I still feel confident in the number but I got to tell you the supply chain has been tight with our suppliers.
And I know a lot of companies have talked about this and we've been impacted by it as well.
And it's a frustration but one that I think -- I think we'll be very close to being caught up with by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And the mismatch Dave is it -- is it items that would immediately be accretive to earnings? Is it things like drill pipe or is it some of the spending you have at Hallin which is going to be more for 2012 and 2013? It's primarily related to services not to the rental pipe.
Although there are some elements of our fleet that include things like pressure control rentals and things like this grease injectors frac stacks that have been a bit slow.
We've been slow in receiving the pump down units that's been a bit behind budget.
We've received all of our coiled tubing equipment to this point but -- and that was pretty much on schedule.
But some of the pumping units associated with the coiled tubing equipment were a bit slow in being delivered.
So I characterize it more as being on the intervention side of the business than on the rental side of the business as we're looking behind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- with respect to 2012 CapEx you're going to have extra cash flow from Complete assuming the deal gets closed before the end of this year.
I know you've talked about using some of that CapEx internationally.
This morning you mentioned Saudi is a new market and a couple of other markets that you're reviewing.
Do you need the complete cash flow to be able to fund areas like Saudi? Or is that already in your thinking with your cash flow just appear independently for next year? Saudi is already in our thinking for the Superior generated cash flow outside of Complete.
I think what I've consistently said about this is that as we close the complete deal and have access overall to a bigger cash pool it does gives us the optionality perhaps to accelerate some of this international expansion and take on a few more areas sooner than we otherwise would.
But Saudi has been a part of our plan and it's really outside of that compound.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With regards to Saudi Dave that's an interesting choice.
My understanding is you have to get qualified to work for Aramco.
So I guess I would be asking are you qualified to work on the pressure control business for Aramco? Well we've historically done pressure control work for Aramco.
In fact wild well control has been their primary choice when they have some form of well control emergency or rig inspections or a variety of work that we have done with wild well control in Saudi.
We've never been located there.
It's always been services that we've done on a spot basis for them as required.
And so that business has been and continues to be qualified with Aramco.
And it's now with a permanent presence and an increased scope of work and some of the details of that are still being worked out.
That's really our point of entry there so -- I mean to answer your question yes we are qualified.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of switching gears to a little bit different area.
Brazil saw some nice increases.
Could you talk about your success in penetrating Petrobras as an account? And give us a status update on Australia.
Yes so Brazil is moving along kind of as we have planned.
We had a small acquisition that we closed in the third quarter which is giving us access to the land market now in -- in and around Americas use up in the northeastern part of Brazil.
It's a largely overlooked market quite frankly because so many are focused in the offshore area.
But there's also an offshore market that's accessible for Americas use as well.
We're also building out our footprint there I think it's good.
The acquisition is a small pumping services company submitting in remedial acidizing so it also gives us a bit of a service on there.
The buildout is happening just fine.
And by the way that company has contracts with Petrobras today.
But we have -- we are expanding our network of contracts there and still see a lot of opportunities a number of tenders that are in the works right now.
On Australia things are moving along in Australia.
We had a real good quarter there from an intervention services standpoint.
Snubbing is our biggest service line there today and we continue to work through other opportunities that are growth related.
One of the things we need to do in 2012 and will be part of our budget is to get Brazil some intervention and probably some remedial pumping equipment.
So building out that side of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You gave a good overview of North America and some good specifics that I agree with on the optimism there.
But I've been hearing from a lot of investors concerned that the shift to Complete is abandoning your international push.
You've obviously gone through this morning some of the international I guess where you're pushing it a bit.
But to approach it from a higher level is this a complete shift to refocus efforts in North America? Or are you still going to take a balanced approach globally? I mean to answer your question it is clearly a balanced approach.
And our enthusiasm for the buildout of the international business is no different than it was prior to announcing the merger with Complete.
We still see that.
And I still personally see that as being long-term the best growth opportunity for the company.
It's one where I believe is a result of having a bigger balance sheet and a larger cash flow.
We'll actually be able to accelerate our entry into some of these new markets and accelerating those fund those the way they need to be funded when you start up a new country operation.
So it is certainly not a move away from the international strategy at all.
In fact it doesn't have any impact on our international strategy.
If anything Marshall there are a few other markets that we have been looking at and some markets that we participate in today where pressure pumping services and specifically fracturing may actually speed our revenue growth at some of those new places.
So you think about Australia as an example Australia is a fracturing market.
We've got a big initiative in Australia today and so I think if anything this acquisition really -- it complements our international strategy extremely well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought.
Okay shifting gears.
Pipe rental it appears in your results that it has been on fire.
And when you look to '12 and let's just say for now you keep your CapEx similar is pipe really going to continue to be a big chunk of that? Can you just kind of give us a preview I guess of what you're looking at for the CapEx and the distribution of that CapEx in '12? Well we haven't finalized the 2012 capital budget so really I'm not prepared to go into great detail on that on this call.
We'll certainly cover that in the next call.
But I think that the opportunities to continue to build out our overall fleet of premium pipe and to be as good in 2012 as it was in 2011 and it would not surprise me at all if our overall cash dollars were premium pipe in 2012 or more than they were in 2011.
There's still a need for additional premium pipe in the U.S.
market.
A number of the horizontal rigs that are drilling to date don't have access to premium pipe.
Our demands from customers and the markets that we focused on continues to be very strong and we have not focused on every one of the -- every one of the shale and oil basins in the U.S.
yet.
We had to kind of pick and choose during 2011 which one we wanted to attack and there are several of those markets that have been unattacked by us.
So my instinct tells me that there's going to be probably at least as much or maybe more of an opportunity for investment in pipe here in 2012 as it was for 2011.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And remind us what percent that was in '11 roughly in terms of how much the pipe absorbed into CapEx.
Well the total -- the total rental CapEx for the year is just under $200 million.
Not all of that is pipe I mean there are stabilizers included in there but...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> At 40% of your CapEx? More is just for pipe.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dave in terms of where we stand on this deepwater revenue that you indicated you had lost post-Macondo.
And from the peak how far are we back -- obviously we're not back to the peak but we're up from the trough kind of where do we stand in terms of your recovering that high margin deepwater revenue? And so we think by the end of December we'll be about halfway there from a rig count standpoint.
So our prediction -- our prediction for rig count is actually turning out pretty well.
That may be the first time I've ever done that.
We said there were going to be about 15 incremental rigs added by the end of December.
It looks like that number is going to be pretty much spot on or real close to it.
So that's -- there were 33 deepwater rigs drilling deepwater wells prior to the Macondo incident so that's not quite 50% but pretty close to it.
One thing -- one thing that's interesting here we kind of realized this in Q2 but we acquired that completions business while we were in the throes of Macondo.
And I think we underestimated just how much of their revenue would be -- and earnings impact would be as a result of deepwater drilling continuing.
And so that was certainly a benefit for us in Q2 it was in Q3 and it will be going forward.
So if you look at our overall exposure of deepwater drilling it's actually a bit higher now as a result of that acquisition than it was prior to Macondo.
Research Division</strong> So we might get back to your peak kind of revenues even before the rig cap gets back to its pre-Macondo level? I think that's right.
Typically the margins are a little bit different in those businesses.
I mean our incremental margin on revenue additions from rental tools as deepwater rigs come back is extremely strong.
We believe those margins are in excess of 80% from an incremental standpoint.
And completions margins aren't going to be quite be that strong but still overall quite a big contributor.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I also wanted to ask you about if you see any opportunities for these large multi-platform decommissioning projects in the Gulf of Mexico such as Superior has executed before? I can tell you we don't have any to report to you today that are new projects for us.
I mean there is decommissioning work that's going on which I would characterize as kind of the standard decommissioning work plug and abandon work.
It's happening at a pace that is about consistent with what we've seen over the last few years.
But the big project that Superior had a few years ago the BP wreck removal project was a pretty special project involving downed platforms and live wellbores that were on the sea floor which certainly are not another one of those type of project surface.
We did take on the Bullwinkle platform almost 2 years ago now.
We've not had another one of those types of projects which is surface.
But once again Bullwinkle is a pretty unique asset too.
Now these things Robin they're really -- these are deals that will be fairly infrequent.
We do have the experience level and a reputation for taking on these types of projects.
So I mean I think when our customers have them available we're going to be certainly be in a conversation but there's not a lot of those conversations going on right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
And is the Bullwinkle project going as you planned it? Yes it is.
I mean it's -- Bullwinkle is producing for the course of the year as we thought it would.
We haven't done any P&amp;As on Bullwinkle but the interesting about the Bullwinkle business model is we're not doing P&amp;As it's because Dynamic Offshore is carrying out intervention and workover type work that boosts production.
And so the fact that we haven't done P&amp;A this year doesn't mean that our earnings from Bullwinkle are necessarily less than we planned them to be.
So interesting business model from that standpoint because we took this on with the belief we'd be doing a large number of P&amp;As but the profitability out there has been supplemented by the fact that production side than we thought it would be and we haven't worked through the backlog of P&amp;As.
There's still there to do so...
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two things Dave.
One as we look at the fourth quarter could you just give us a sense for sort of the pluses and minuses we should be thinking about? Is there anything seasonally in the Gulf that you're building into your expectations that send us around from the bottom to the top end of your guidance? Yes I mean the 2 big factors during the fourth quarter is holidays and weather.
And the holidays are pretty predictable and we know our customers really don't like to start up new optional type projects plug and abandonment work or intervention work.
They don't like to start those things up close to the holidays.
Last thing in the world you want to do Stephen is to get stuck on a P&amp;A over Christmas so they don't start them then.
Weather weather is pretty tough to predict here.
I mean we are impacted by cold fronts when they blow through the Gulf.
Those cold fronts will kick up seas.
They will shut down liftboats for a period of a time and they'll shut down supply boats which are carrying some of the plug and abandonment or intervention equipment out to locations.
So that's just something we have to deal with during the winter.
I think what we've done is come up with a range of guidance that kind of covers us if we have a really bad weather period here during the fourth quarter and it's -- and we think that we put that in the range of guidance I guess.
If we wind up without any significant weather issues then we're going to be strong from a revenue standpoint in those service lines I think probably through the second or third week of December.
But there's still a pullback that happens at the end of the year that's inevitable.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the 2 other things.
One as I sort of just carry that thought forward it seems like we generally underestimate the first quarter seasonality consistently.
As we sort of think about it going forward now for 1Q '12 is there any change in the business mix? I mean obviously U.S.
land would probably help.
But is there any change in the mix that will make your first quarter '12 maybe less significantly down seasonally from 4Q in this upcoming year versus the last couple? Yes.
I mean you're exposed to a little bit longer weather problem in the first quarter.
But let me talk about this a little bit because if you try and use the first quarter of 2010 as your benchmark Q1 of 2010 was unusually slow in the Gulf of Mexico for optional work.
And if you've heard me talk about this in the past we already talked about it when we reported earnings in Q1 I think it was largely driven by the fact that so many of our operators had -- that weren't drilling wells during Macondo were putting their technical people and operational staff on -- in some of these plug and abandonment and intervention projects between about June of 2010 and December of 2010 so they worked through a lot of that stuff that maybe ordinarily they would have done in January and February in most years.
So what I'm pointing you towards is as you look at Q1 2010 the Gulf of Mexico I believe was unusually impacted by that.
We would expect in Q1 of 2012 to have something that's a bit more normal from an activity level in those optional type of work activities but it's still impacted by the weather.
And January and February are notorious in the Gulf of Mexico for having weather-related slowdowns or shutdowns because operators don't want to hire a boat to move things around when they're not confident in the near-term weather window.
Research Division</strong> You mean 1Q '11 not '10 right? I'm sorry.
Yes Q1 '11 sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a final thought and that's very helpful color is Hallin Marine how should we think about that its contribution to revenue and whether it's positive or negative on average margins in Subsea and Well Enhancement like sort of right now and then again for the fourth quarter given your positive commentary on utilization there? Well I mean it's been kind of up and down during the course of 2011 so I'm going to walk through that.
Q1 was terrible.
Utilization was bad and it was a bad quarter for Hallin Marine.
Q2 was a big recovery.
And they were a contributor from a cash standpoint from a profitability standpoint.
Q3 the revenue level was quite good.
And I think we made a comment that their revenue in Q3 was actually a bit higher than Q2.
We chose to relocate one of those vessels during the course of the quarter and we chose to get some of our drydock work on 2 other vessels out of the way during the quarter.
Those 2 events hampered our margins.
But nonetheless they were profitable slightly profitable during the course of Q3.
So that business has improved now.
It ought to be obvious that we caused the vessel to move from West Africa into Asia and we sped up I guess the drydock and requirements on the other 2 vessels because of the backlog of work we're looking at for Q1 and I think that's going to flow into the beginning of 2012.
So we're pretty optimistic about how we end the year with Hallin Marine and it will be a positive contributor from a profitability standpoint.
And then I think through '12 it's just going to continue to improve.
But let me say something about Hallin Marine.
We talk about Hallin Marine quite a bit and sometimes I think we probably have talked about it too much because overall from a revenue standpoint it's about 5% or less of our total revenue.
It's a pretty small part of our overall business but I know people are interested in it.
It certainly has not been a very strong producer for the company since we acquired the assets 2 years ago.
But we look at 2012 as being the year where we think it's going to be a nice contributor for us.
I don't think overall in that market we'll see complete price recovery during 2012.
But if we're able to get 1/2 or 2/3 of that price recovery from levels that we saw prior to the acquisition we'll be pretty happy.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Since we did just address Hallin's performance in Q3 I was curious if Dave you could maybe draw a ring around what weather impacts in the Marcellus in the Gulf of Mexico might have meant to Q3? Were they larger in terms of their impact in the Hallin impacts you had or smaller? Overall they were larger than the Hallin impact.
It was -- and I think you've heard this from others we realized a slowdown in Pennsylvania as a result of the flooding that was there.
It was really primarily related to the inability to move equipment around for a period of time that pulled -- that held us back from what we otherwise would have earned.
And then of course we were shut down in the Gulf of Mexico Central Gulf of Mexico for about 5 days as a result of a tropical storm that went through.
And so those were the 2 impacts.
Whenever we have those I don't recall one in Pennsylvania quite like this.
This was pretty unusual for Pennsylvania.
But between those 2 it was certainly more of an impact than Hallin Marine's miss versus our expectations.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of thinking about international business this year you had a couple -- you've highlighted a couple of international completion tool wins.
You've had some relatively high profile international P&amp;A jobs.
Looking ahead to '12 and thinking about the international visibility you have is the international growth in 2012 does it build on what you've seen on the tools in the P&amp;A side? Or is it going to be more driven by the deployment of incremental capital into the rental tool business globally? I mean I think in total it's driven more by our capital investments whether it's on a drilling side -- drilling products and services side of the business or on the intervention side.
But Daniel I mean every country that we go to is going to have a little bit different story.
And I think that's part of the beauty and the breadth of the product line in this company.
We did have good success with the subsea P&amp;As in Indonesia last year.
We've been doing some of that work in the second half of the year in Egypt from a plug and abandonment decommissioning standpoint.
I think you'll see those stories be spotted around the globe as we go forward.
The Drilling Products and Services is going to be a much bigger player in those markets where the rig count is higher.
That's where you make the most money in Drilling Products and Services in areas like Australia which is not necessarily a huge rig count it's going to do more driven by intervention services.
So everywhere has got a little bit different story.
I think over time what you'll see though as we build our footprint larger in some of these big mature and growing markets we get a chance to flow more product lines through.
In Brazil it started with rental tools.
We announced the completion tools win.
Now I mentioned that we bought this small pumping services company there still look for some wins going forward on that side of the business as well.
Ultimately we'll get a chance I think in coiled tubing in Brazil when it's time for Petrobras to reach into that work.
So everywhere has got a little bit different story from a product line standpoint.
It won't be all the same.
But they all kind of become very active and the cumulative effect of those over time I think is very positive.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'll pin one small one right here.
The Alaska work noted was that truly onetime? Or is there a future opportunity in Alaska? What we reported during the quarter was related to the sale of 2 small vessels that are part of one of our customers' well containment plans for their hope for permits offshore Alaska for next summer.
We've been working with them more extensively on an engineering study and planning for a much larger containment option.
That I guess we'll be able to tell you more about when we get our contract finalized and when our customer gets their drilling permits.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden &amp; Company.
LP Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the U.S.
land margin.
If you can take out the affect of the weather in the quarter what is the trend on your U.S.
land margins? You mentioned 94% incrementals in the drilling and production -- drilling products and services but what's going on underneath the seasonal impact? Overall margins my observation in services related margins in the U.S.
and our business is they've been fairly flat.
We have seen some cost increases in the services side the land business which for us a lot of that is coiled tubing.
We've seen some cost increases on the labor side which we've been able to offset through price increases to our customers.
But if you look at it overall from a margin standpoint it's been fairly consistent over the last 3 or 4 quarters really.
And they're good margins Geoff.
So really as fragmented as the market is as many suppliers as there are for things like coiled tubing I think the pricing is going to stay pretty well-behaved.
I think it has been more well-behaved prices and good margins.
The operators if they don't like my price they can pick up the phone and call 6 or 7 other people and get a price.
They may not be able to get equipment but they can really get reference points.
And what does that is it really -- it causes the margins to be fairly consistent as we've experienced during the course of the year and what I think we would experience going forward.
LP Research Division</strong> So price -- any price leverage is being -- you can do it either way either you're able to price to offset cost inflation or the cost inflation is eating up any margin improvement that you're getting from the...
Right.
It would be -- I think it would be problematic if we were in a situation where those margins were low but they're not.
The margins are at a good midpoint I would call it.
It's the margin that certainly inspires reinvestment.
But it's not margins that are off-the-wall.
How's that? There's no 50% margins in there.
But hey think about normalized service margins kind of the 25% to 35% range I mean that's typically what we see in those businesses today.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
So the incremental margins may be around 30%? Yes that's probably a good reference point 30% to 35%.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And you mentioned you kind of caught my ear when you were talking about the strength in the Haynesville given the rig count decline and you punctuated that with the contrast between the rig count change and the revenue growth there.
How long do think that keeps going? I understand the driver is the uncompleted wells.
But the rig count is down so the population of uncompleted wells should be shrinking.
It certainly is.
I mean we're clearly not drilling as many wells in the Haynesville as we were at this time last year.
The rig count is down.
The completion backlog the services backlog following those rigs has been tremendous.
I fully expect if rig count continues to trend down in the Haynesville that we'll reach a point in 2012 where we start to work through that backlog.
I thought it was going to be sooner than this.
I didn't really have an appreciation for the backlog.
I made a trip up to North Louisiana about 3 months ago and my attention was to spend some time with our managers up there and ensure that they were thinking about transfer of equipment because I know we've got needs in the Eagle Ford we've got needs in the Permian Basin we've got needs in the Bakken we've got needs in the Marcellus and so -- I mean I'm still relatively new to the company and still getting to know some of these managers.
I want to make sure they were kind of thinking about things right.
And I got up there and they described for me their current work level and showed me what their current turndown levels are and I got in my car and drove home.
It's not time to transfer equipment yet.
I mean there will be that point in time if the rig count stays down in the Haynesville but we're not there yet.
And I also believe that that same type of backlog is building in other basins as well.
I don't think that's something that's just happening in Haynesville today.
And we've heard our customers talk about it in some other areas like South Texas like Permian Basin like North Dakota.
So I thought you guys might appreciate that example from the Haynesville.
Listen I keep looking for the revenue levels to start to fall off as well and we've seen just the opposite.
And we still got customers in the Haynesville that are asking us to bring more capacity in for certain areas.
So the supply chain is not in exactly the same position with every product line.
It's one place with fracturing another place with coiled tubing another place with frac stacks and grease injectors or whatever it may be a lot of different elements required here to carry out these completions.
The one common element is they all seem to be undersupplied to the market but there's variations from one to the next is exactly where they are.
LP Research Division</strong> And when you look at the current portfolio of businesses or products and services you're delivering in the U.S.
land market.
As we see this shift it may not have been impacting Superior quite as immediately but as we see the shift from gas to liquids is there any real difference in the profitability of that business or the if you will service intensity per rig for your portfolio as we shift from gas to liquid? There is not.
We used to say our service company is working in North America that we were levered to North American natural gas prices and what I say now is we are levered to wellbore geometry.
It's all about horizontal wells and long horizontal wells and the commodity we are commodity indifferent.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And just a little bit of a nitpick perhaps but last quarter in giving your second half guidance you made a comment that fourth quarter should look about the same as third quarter in terms of earnings.
The guidance suggests that we're more likely to see a negative -- sequential decline.
Am I making too much of a small deal? Or is there something that's changed since last quarter? You're making too much of a small deal.
I mean we thought the quarters would be similar.
If you think about where we've come from now -- I mean we produced $0.53 in the second quarter up to $0.69 in the third quarter that's a 30% increase in earnings that's a lot from one quarter to the next knowing that we have the seasonality and holiday period which affects us in Q4.
I think you're making a deal out of nothing there.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Bartlett with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you all on coiled tubing.
Specifically Dave on the Superior Complete merger call you commented that the current supply of coiled tubing units is roughly 600 units while demand is currently somewhere between 1 000 and 1 100 units.
How do you all plan to address this undersupplied market in 2012? Well I mean I think our plan would be to continue to add capacity.
But I'll have to note that the big restraint in adding capacity has been ability to hire and develop people and we added 8 units to our fleet this year.
When we reached that decision our conversation -- my conversation with our managers in this business was how many people can we hire not how much equipment can we add.
And I think that's a really critical point to make about all of the service-related part of the supply chain in the U.S.
today.
This is not just about adding equipment it's about adding people.
And the coiled tubing business is one that requires a lot of people because most of those units are operating 24 hours a day.
And so you're not hiring one crew for a unit you're hiring 2.
And if it happens to be working in an area like the Bakken or even in the Marcellus in a lot of cases we don't have those crews locally available to us.
And so we're having to work guys on a rotational schedule which means the coiled tubing unit going into the Bakken doesn't have 2 crews it has 4 crews.
And so that's really the bottleneck in increasing the overall capacity we have from a services standpoint and I think the way we approach that in 2011 is the way we'll approach it in 2012.
What's our confidence level in hiring and developing crews that are at least as good as the crews we have in the field today and we'll back into a number of units.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And I understand the budget at this point is preliminary.
But do you guys have any idea of how many units you plan to add next year? I've got an idea but I don't know if we're ready to reveal it in detail yet.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Dave just one question for you.
I know it's a small part of the business but I was just interested in your thoughts given the way you see the Gulf of Mexico deepwater unfolding and that is around the stimulation vessels that you inherited I guess on the Baker transaction.
I know both of those were leased and I guess both of those are coming up for expiration here relatively soon.
I know we've seen a lot of migration vessels out of the Gulf of Mexico.
Could you talk a little bit about just kind of the longer-term strategy there for you with the regard to the stem vessel market in the Gulf of Mexico? Yes sure.
I mean first off as far as the migration out of the Gulf of Mexico we undertook an obligation when we bought those assets with the Department of Justice that those vessels would not leave the Gulf of Mexico for at least 2 years from the time of acquisition.
So that's now 14 months I guess and we do -- they are leased vessels these are not vessels that are owned by the company.
And when we carried out this acquisition I think I was pretty straightforward that we weren't buying -- we weren't buying these assets for those 2 boats.
We were much more interested in the tube business.
The vessels were very good assets and great people have worked on those vessels but the vessel market in the Gulf of Mexico has been a bad market for the last 4 or 5 years.
It's not just a result of Macondo and I think part of the reason for that is there's just been too much capacity there.
So as those leases expire on those vessels we'll evaluate where the business is at that time and what our options are going forward as far as workload and commitments to customers.
And if they're not going to be positive producers for us then we'll have to think of other strategies right? I show no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well I want to thank all of you for participating today and we'll talk to you again next quarter if not before that.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.