Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Friday February 24 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and these items on our website.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thanks Greg and good morning to everyone.
Last night we reported record quarterly revenue of $580 million EBITDA of $166 million and adjusted net income of $54.6 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
Our results were in line with our guidance as we benefited from continued strength in the U.S.
land and international markets.
The Gulf of Mexico experienced a seasonal reduction in shallow water activity for intervention and end-of-life services.
Demand in the U.S.
remained strong for undersupplied product lines such as intervention services and drilling products and services.
Our U.S.
land revenue increased 9% which tripled the 3% increase in the U.S.
land rig count.
Coiled tubing had a record quarter thanks to continued high utilization of existing units and new units that we deployed during the second half of the year.
International growth continued at a strong pace with 12% sequential growth to a record $160 million.
We experienced increased demand for subsea inspection repair and maintenance services as well as snubbing services.
Growth rates during the quarter were highest in Asia Pacific and in the Middle East.
The fourth quarter put a cap on a great year of international growth for the company with revenue expanding 17% to $545 million.
Despite the typical seasonal slowdown in the shallow water Gulf the deepwater market remained stable.
That was evident by the fact that the revenue from the Drilling Products and Services segment in the Gulf increased 8% thanks to the group's exposure to deepwater drilling.
From a margin perspective our overall margin was down slightly excluding the transaction-related expenses due to the impact of reduced Gulf of Mexico activity in the Subsea and Well Enhancement and Marine segments.
These were partially offset by strong margins from activity in other geographic markets.
Let me discuss the sale of our Marine segment before turning the call over to Robert.
Liftboats were a part of our core business when we focused solely on shallow water services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our growth strategy has expanded beyond our historic Gulf of Mexico roots and capital has been directed to other products and services that fulfill our evolving geographic expansion and investment return profile.
I want to thank the management and employees of the Marine division for their dedication to customer service and safety through the years.
Now Robert will walk you through some of the financial details and I'll come back to discuss our guidance and outlook.
With that I'll turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the third quarter of 2011.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $393 million a sequential increase of 4% and income from operations excluding transaction expenses was $54 million a decline of 3%.
In U.S.
land revenue in this segment increased 11% to $170 million.
In this market area we experienced higher demand across most of our intervention services with the largest increases coming from coiled tubing and wireline services and remedial pressure pumping services.
Coiled tubing revenue increased 20% over the third quarter.
As you will recall coiled tubing revenue increased 17% in the third quarter so we saw a tremendous growth in the back half of the year after deploying 8 new units.
We also had a nice increase in wireline services and pressure control services.
Incremental margins in U.S.
land increased in excess of 50% significantly influenced by growth in our coiled tubing business.
International revenue was $130 million which represents an increase of 18%.
Most of the growth came from Hallin Marine which had high activity levels in Australia and Indonesia during the fourth quarter.
This business has been getting very good vessel utilization and day rates are starting to increase from the first half of the year.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue declined 15% to $109 million.
In addition to the decline in shallow water activity that Dave mentioned earlier we had less revenue from completion services primarily related to the fact that we had high product sales in the third quarter.
Lower margins were primarily a function of the decline in Gulf of Mexico revenue levels.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $170 million and income from operation was $44 million which represents a 4% sequential increase in revenue and a 2% sequential increase in income from operations.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% to approximately $44 million due to an increase in rentals of premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment as the market continues to experience a modest return of drilling and completion activity in the deepwater.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue in this segment increased each quarter in 2011 reflecting the recovery in deepwater drilling.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% sequentially to approximately $79 million as a result of increased demand for accommodations premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment.
In the Marine segment revenue decreased 28% to $18 million with operating income of $400 000 excluding the impairment charges detailed in our earnings press release.
Seasonality and lack of utilization of the large liftboats especially 265-foot class vessels hurt our performance.
There are a couple of projects for the 265 that ended earlier than expected in the fourth quarter and that has hampered our efforts to secure new projects at a time when demand was seasonally lower.
Liftboat utilization decreased to 62% from 77%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the year the face value of our debt exclusive of discounts was approximately $1.7 billion.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the year was 1.4x as compared to 1.5x at the end of the third quarter and our net debt to total capital was 36%.
Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were $178 million and we ended up the year with capital expenditures of $508 million.
From a modeling perspective in 2012 we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $620 million to $640 million.
At this point we have -- excuse me for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $535 million to $555 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $125 million to $140 million.
Weighted average share count is approximately 126 million in the first quarter and approximately 157.2 million for the remainder of the year.
We anticipate a 37% effective income tax rate in 2012 as a result of higher U.S.
income content.
Because the first quarter will only include Complete for about 7 weeks or so we want to provide a few modeling metrics for the first quarter.
We think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $140 million to $150 million and for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $102 million to $110 million.
We also anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $31 million to $35 million.
By way of review with respect to the Complete merger.
Total consideration was $2.9 billion based on the stock price of $30.90 which was Superior's closing price on February 7 2012.
The consideration included $554 million in cash and $2.4 billion in stock.
We spent approximately $4.1 million in the fourth quarter related to acquisition costs.
Additional transaction expenses in closing costs will be incurred in the first quarter of 2012.
In connection with this acquisition SPN entered into the following financing arrangements: $800 million of 7 1/8 senior notes with a 10-year tenor.
The net proceeds of this issuance were restricted to the acquisition of Complete Production Services.
Interest expense on this piece of debt for the fourth quarter amounted to $4.1 million.
We also closed at the date of the merger a $1.0 billion credit facility which includes $400 million of term loans amortizing $5 million per quarter beginning June 30 2012 and a $600 million revolving credit facility.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the year.
Okay.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release guidance for 2012 is in the range of $3.26 to $3.60.
This includes the contributions from Complete starting on February 8 which would be recorded in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment and contributions from Superior's equity investment in Dynamic Offshore Holdings until the sale of Dynamic to SandRidge Energy closes which is assumed to occur in the second quarter of 2012.
The earnings guidance does not include any contribution from the Marine segment or transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of Complete or the sale of the Marine segment.
I believe the 2012 consensus estimate for Superior's stand-alone was $3.08 after we announced the Complete transaction.
The midpoint of our 2012 earnings guidance would suggest that the contribution from Complete is accretive to that estimate by 10%.
However we think that that is a conservative view of accretion because the contribution from Complete is partially offset by a content change in our business mix for 2012.
Due to pending transactions the Marine segment is not included in our guidance and income from our equity method investment is included for just one quarter.
Although we typically do not provide quarterly guidance we will provide it for the first quarter of 2012 due to the number of moving pieces related to the timing of the Complete acquisition and the sale of the Marine segment.
We believe our first quarter 2012 earnings will be in the range of $0.56  to $0.62 per share.
This includes a partial quarter of income from Complete but a full quarter of interest expense associated with the acquisition.
From an operation standpoint the biggest challenge in Q1 from Q4 of 2011 is a full quarter of seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico and Southeast Asia which we think reduces our earnings by about $0.08 from the fourth quarter.
We estimate that about 2/3 of that seasonality is in the Gulf of Mexico.
The drop-off in activity from seasonality this year is not expected to be as severe as it was in the first quarter of 2011.
As you may recall last year our Q1 earnings were down to $0.19 in the first quarter from $0.42 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our 2012 guidance is largely predicated on a mix of internal execution and external market factors including: capital deployment labor additions seasonality and continued improvement in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
While we think that the U.S.
rig count average in the fourth quarter of 2012 will be 3% to 7% higher than the Q4 2011 average of 1 973 rigs rig count growth is probably one of the less important factors in our guidance as the supply chain remains tight and demand for our focused product offering such as coiled tubing fluid management and premium drill pipe are still very strong.
The rig count is one barometer of activity.
What the rig count does not capture is the completions backlog the increase in service intensity and longer horizontal completions the increase in fluid management requirements and intensity and intervention projects that have not been carried out due to tightness in the supply chain.
To be successful in meeting the demand challenges in the U.S.
we must execute for our customers deploy capital in the right markets at the right time and crew our new equipment.
Those challenges are far more important than the rig count growth.
Let me discuss our outlook for 2012 by geography and I'll start with the U.S.
land market.
We think our established presence in the Eagle Ford Mid-Continent Permian and Bakken will provide continued growth for us in 2012.
These markets are still undersupplied for most of the services that we offer and I expect that we will see new asset additions and potentially asset transfers from the dry gas basins to these markets during the course  of the year.
We strongly believe that the overall trend of our customers migrating more of their activities to oil and liquids-rich basins will continue over the long term and we believe that this will create upward momentum in the market in 2012.
Now as 2012 progresses we do expect to experience some slowdown in activity in the dry gas basins specifically in the Marcellus and in the Haynesville.
We do not have pressure pumping fleets in the Haynesville.
We have 4 fleets in the Marcellus 2 of which are under term contracts.
We also have coiled tubing assets in both the Marcellus and the Haynesville but demand has remained strong for coiled in both these markets.
We think the rig count growth will of course take place in the oil and liquids-rich areas.
We are fortunate to already have infrastructure established in these areas.
So we know the market we have established customers and we're able to add assets in those areas with a minimal fixed cost impact.
We're confident that the capital equipment additions that we have planned for the U.S.
which I will speak to in just a moment are focused in product lines that are in short supply and will likely remain in short supply during 2012.
However we will be cautious of asset additions and product lines such as horizontal well fracturing where the supply demand balance question is a bit less certain.
Now let me talk a little bit about Gulf of Mexico.
In the Gulf of Mexico there are a lot of reasons to be optimistic.
Overall it is still a recovering market but one that will continue to advance as the permit flow has improved.
We expect to see deepwater activity continue to increase during the course of 2012.
I think that we'll see about a 50% increase in the overall numbers of rigs drilling for oil and gas in the deepwater market.
This is a subset you'll  recall of the overall Gulf of Mexico deepwater rig count which tends to include rigs carrying out other activities aside from deepwater drilling.
It's a nice sizeable increase still below pre-Macondo levels.
But nonetheless a 50% increase in that market will be very good for us because we have very nice exposure to the deepwater market pre-Macondo and we've got even better exposure now thanks to the sand control assets that we acquired from Baker Hughes in August of 2010.
I think we are also going to see better activity from some of our shelf oil operators working with a very strong oil price and good drilling prospects during 2012.
I expect that several of those independent operators will increase their activities during the course of the year.
Now let's talk about international.
I believe our product line breadth and experience in both land and offshore markets positions us in a very unique way to capitalize and deliver on what we believe will be an expanding international market in 2012.
We will continue to execute on our strategy of targeting specific countries and regions for investment.
We're not going to expand in every geographic market.
Our criteria includes markets that are mature and expanding introducing product lines that are most in need in that particular market at that moment in time and then following on with the full breadth of our product line into those targeted international markets.
Australia Brazil Columbia West Africa and other parts of Asia Pacific are markets that will continue to receive investment as they did in 2011.
I expect to add Saudi Arabia and Argentina as new markets in 2012.
We think that the unconventional resource play in Argentina is going to be a great opportunity for us.
Over time I believe Argentina will have the same kind of service intensity and extraction of those shale resources to what we see in the U.S.: long horizontal wells pressure pumping opportunities coiled tubing opportunities and premium pipe opportunities.
We expect that Saudi Arabia will be a multiservice line expansion for us in 2012 as we begin activities to support Aramco from a pressure control standpoint contracts that we've already been awarded and from a well control standpoint.
We also see several well intervention opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
That will bring us critical mass.
They'll cause us to have a significant facility investment in Saudi Arabia during the course of 2012 which lays the groundwork for future expansion in 2013 and beyond following a very similar path to what you see in Brazil.
Now let me talk through a little bit of our 2012 capital expenditure plans.
Our press release provided a 2012 capital expenditure range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We anticipate spending about 70% in the U.S.
land market 20% of that in the international market and 10% of it in the Gulf of Mexico.
From a segment standpoint about 80% of that goes to Subsea and Well Enhancement and 20% to Drilling Products and Services.
I expect about 70% of our capital budget to be expansionary 20% in maintenance and 10% for facilities.
Some of the major capital expenditure items in the plan include the following: First off 1 million feet of premium drill pipe with approximately 45% of that pipe earmarked for the North American market areas and 35% for international the remainder going to the Gulf of Mexico.
The rental segment particularly premium pipe continued to generate the highest returns in our business.
And in addition to opportunities that we see via international expansion the U.S.
horizontal market demand for pipe continues to be extremely robust.
Next we'll add 18 coiled tubing units to our fleet including about 10 new revenue-generating units for the North American market areas.
We will have a few coiled tubing units that go into the U.S.
this year to provide maintenance time for our existing fleet and we expect opportunities to place several units in the international market during 2012.
Our international capital spending should increase about 50% over 2011 with a focus on rental tools intervention and remedial pumping assets.
In addition to the international coiled tubing units that I mentioned before we have about $50 million in well intervention assets directed toward our targeted international expansion countries.
If opportunities develop in the international markets during the course of 2012 that require a CapEx beyond what we have budgeted then we will redirect spending to these priority opportunities while maintaining our stated capital budget.
The single largest investment in the U.S.
this year will be in the water management business.
With horizontal wells placing a greater burden on the water management infrastructure and as regulatory requirements increase the accountability for tracking water used in the field for drilling and completions we are very well positioned to provide our customers a holistic and integrated environmental fluids-handling service.
We have about 170 000 horsepower of pressure pumping capacity to be deployed in the oil and liquids-rich basins during the year in North America.
170 000 is less than the 230 000 hydraulic horsepower addition that was originally discussed by Complete for 2012 fleet additions.
The slowdown in completion activity in the dry gas area is causing us to take a more cautious and prudent approach to capacity additions in pressure pumping and these additions will of course be targeted to the oil and liquids-rich areas where our fracturing services are already established.
We have a 2012 delivery of the Compact Semi-Submersible vessel which has been under construction for the past 2 years and it should enter the market around the fourth quarter of 2012.
And finally we've got a significant part of our capital budget that's devoted to oil spill capping and containment systems for use in various international markets around the world.
Our North American capital investment is designed to preserve a similar revenue and earnings mix by service line as would be reflected in 2011 pro forma results.
I have described diversity as being an important element of our North American exposure and we will continue to be driven to have a balance in our earnings base that is not overly weighted to any particular product line.
Any preference that we currently have for weighting would be to premium drill pipe coiled tubing and water management.
We have a very unique advantage in Superior related to flexibility that we have in capital spending.
As we see changes in the marketplace we can and will respond to that because our lead time for many of the things that we'll purchase is relatively short.
We also believe that our capital spending plans for 2012 take advantage of the best near-term earnings impact and best return on investment options that we have available to us.
In closing I'd like to say 2011 was a tremendous year at Superior Energy Services and I want to thank our management team and employees for delivering a great year.
Now our attentions are turned to the future and building on the momentum that our transformational combination with Complete provides for us.
Our integration activities in the U.S.
are proceeding smoothly under the leadership of Brian Moore formerly Complete's Chief Operating Officer.
Our primary integration focus is in coiled tubing and the electric line businesses and so far these activities are going very well.
We are strongly motivated and organized to accelerate our plans for international expansion and we expect to initiate multiservice line operations in 3 or 4 new countries during 2012.
These businesses in addition to our current efforts in Brazil and Australia provide the backbone for continued growth at Superior.
And I think now we'll turn the line over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dave on the international CapEx that you're allocating for 2012 as a percentage I guess about 20% a little bit lower than I thought it would be although it's still pretty big in overall dollar terms.
And I know it's up some 50% year-over-year.
Is that the kind of max amount of capital that you could put to work internationally? Or are your various regional managers screaming for more and you're just waiting to make sure you have the right opportunities? Well a primary part of our funding in 2012 is towards the first 2 countries that we focused on from an expansion standpoint that's Brazil and Australia.
And the way you need to think about these country expansions our first step is to hire and bring in the management team.
Their capital investment intensity is going to be the greatest in the second third and fourth year after they've been out there.
And that's kind of the point that we're entering now for Brazil and Australia.
As I stated earlier we hope to add 3 or 4 countries to that list in 2012.
Their investment is going to be most significant in 2013 and 2014.
So we are funding the opportunities that our managers there develop.
I don't know that just throwing more CapEx to it in 2012 is necessarily going to get us anywhere.
We could stage this and do it in a such a way that we're making investments that are strong from a near-term earnings impact as well as from a return standpoint.
So we're not starving those guys for capital at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then it looks to me like you're going to have -- after you get the proceeds from Dynamic from the liftboats sale I think you're still owed a little bit of money from BP possibly for the wreck removal project that your cash balance should be up nicely.
Is that going to be used to fund CapEx or do you think there's perhaps deleveraging or maybe share buybacks that you might allocate some cash towards? The capital that budget that we stated for 2012 is a maximum.
We do not expect to exceed that.
So cash from operations free cash from operations during the course of the year cash from some of the sales of these assets we'll be looking at different strategic alternatives over the course of the next few months.
Our target right now -- really our focus has been on ensuring the integration activities with Complete go well.
We're now beginning to spend a bit of time looking at strategies for that cash during the course of the year.
And over the next few months I'll be speaking to the board about those alternatives and decide what we want to do.
And once we make those decisions we'll let you know.
And our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dave if I did my math right then with a pressure pumping capacity addition of 170 000 horsepower you would be at about 600 000 horsepower when you complete your expansion? I think your math is right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well so on that can you describe what the contract situation is with regard to that 600 000 horsepower? How much is term? And how much is working in -- the spot market? Yes sure.
So of the fleets that Complete had in place at the close of the acquisition which was 11 -- or 15 11 of those fleets are under a term contract today.
The fleets that come in during the course of 2012 I know that 2 of them are contracted now under similar types of term contracts to what the 11 pre-existing fleets have.
I would expect that gaining term contracts for additional fleets as the year goes on in 2012 is going to be kind of rough.
There's a lot of capacity that's out there in the market.
So we're fortunate that the bulk of the Complete fleet is under a term contract.
There are none of those contracts that expire during 2012.
In fact if my recollection is correct the first contracts don’t begin expiring until about midyear 2013 and many of them go out into 2014.
So that's kind of the status of their fleets from a contracted standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Okay.
So Complete already reported fourth quarter.
When they did they clearly had a very good operating performance and didn't have any of the issues that we saw with some other companies that were moving fleets around from dry gas to liquids-rich basins.
Is there anything -- I mean you do have some fracturing fleets in the Marcellus or you might be moving things around.
Is there any issues that come up that you foresee with regard to reconfiguring your supply chain or moving fleets around that might impact your profitability in that area? Yes.
So I mean clearly the pressure is going to be in the dry gas area.
It's a Marcellus issue and it's a Haynesville issue.
We don't have any fracturing fleets in the Haynesville.
As it turns out that's kind of an advantage now because I'm sure those companies that have capacity in the Haynesville will be looking to relocate those fleets.
And we all understand the types of inefficiencies that go along with fleet relocation.
We don't have to worry about that in the Haynesville.
Of the capacity we have in the Marcellus 2 of those fleets are under term contract.
The other 2 fleets 1 is committed and the other's been kind of in a call-out market and quite frankly our budget reflects that that fleet's going to be pretty slow during 2012.
At this point we don't have a plan to relocate it.
Our preference would be not to relocate it understanding the inefficiencies from a cost standpoint that you have in doing that.
As the year progresses if we see a real good opportunity to put that fleet to work somewhere else we may reconsider it.
But our plans don't account for relocation at this point of that single-frac fleet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good color.
Just finally then on coiled tubing you mentioned that that pricing dynamic is not under pressure.
And so you'll have -- is it -- on a combined basis is it 100 coiled tubing units now plus 18 that you're adding? So we've got 84 in the U.S.
fleet as of today.
We'll be adding 18 but not all 18 of those are going into the U.S.
as I described before.
I think the way -- if you want to think about this for your modeling purposes it's a net addition of about 10 that will occur during the course of the year revenue-generating coiled fleets.
I mentioned that we will probably have a few coiled fleets that go into the market in 2012 that are going to give us an opportunity to circulate some units out and do some major maintenance.
And we need to do that.
These coiled units are going out on locations.
They're not seeing the shop very frequently.
So that's part of what we've built into that capital addition.
I think as we -- if you think about December 2012 think about 94 coiled tubing units that are working in fleet.
And our next question is from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> We've heard a lot this earnings season about interruptions in the industry in pressure pumping due to lack of ability to get guar acid proppant whatever.
But we haven't really heard anybody talk about interruptions in demand for milling out bridge clogs or screen outs or anything like that for coiled units.
Can you -- and it sounds to me like you're running flat out in coil based on your commentary.
Can you tell me why that's the case? No.
I'll just tell you we're running flat out in coil.
I mean from a supply standpoint -- part of what you maybe -- I'm not really sure give me a little bit better direction here Joe.
What are you looking for? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well coil is more or less married at the hip to frac at this point.
So when you see an interruption in frac utilization which we have seen I would think you would see an interruption in coil utilization.
But so far I haven't seen it.
Yes we certainly haven't seen it either.
Some of that may be the way that coil gets contracted and committed.
A lot of those are monthly -- month-to-month deals.
And so they don't necessarily contemplate a change in the job count for fracturing if you will.
They're more tied to a monthly contract whether there's a frac going on or not right? Because really what those coiled units are doing they're going out to wells they're prepping the wells before the frac fleet shows up they're washing out proppant when there's a screen out and then they're drilling out plugs.
And the way they're so often utilized today is they're basically on it from one day to the next sitting on a location either carrying out one of those operations or waiting to do it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then accommodations was a little light in international rental tools.
Could you give us some more color on that? I mean the accommodations business internationally overall it's not a big part of our overall mix.
It's -- but it's -- I can't think of a reason specifically why it was down during the course of the quarter.
Overall rentals were good internationally.
That business was somewhat sideways from Q3 and Q4 but it wasn't any big significant change.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked a little bit about the water handling business which is obviously getting a lot more attention in the industry.
When you talk about water handling do you mean anything greater than just hauling injection or is that pretty much the business as you envision it? Well I mean the water management business is certainly one that it has evolved and is continuing to evolve.
And I think one of the advantages that Complete has in this business is that they kind of touch the water in every aspect.
And they haul the water they can store the water we've got ability to dispose the water we've got ability to recycle water.
And probably most importantly going forward we've got the ability and technology as a result of handling it in each of those stages to track the water.
And from a regulatory standpoint we think that's going to become one of the biggest things that we do and factors to that business going forward.
So the fact that we participate in every way during that overall chain of events in the water management cycle I think puts us in a kind of a unique position to supply customers with the kind of information that we think they're going to need to supply from a regulatory standpoint.
So it is more than just hauling.
And it's more than just disposal.
It's more than just recycling and it's more than just storage.
It's kind all of those things put together.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just housekeeping for Robert.
Robert I didn't catch current debt and cash levels.
Could you supply us with those please? Yes.
Current debt is about $2.2 billion and cash today is around $200 million.
And our next question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave by the way your stock's been acting you'd think 50% of your business is pressure pumping and I know that more like 15% of it is so it's not a huge component of your business but it is the thing you're getting all the questions on.
So I'm going to continue down that path a little bit.
Recognizing of course it's not a huge part of what you're focusing on going forward.
How worried are you for the margins in the areas that are not contracted -- for the fleets that are not contracted? And secondly does that -- how long do you think this the pressure on pressure pumping margins lasts? Is it just sand and guar? Is it too much horsepower? And do -- does a fleet attrition solve this thing maybe sooner than it has in the past? That was a number of different questions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes indeed.
But -- well I think you have a little experience in this area if I recall so you're the guy I want to ask.
All right Marshall where -- it's -- where we will experience margin compression next year in fracturing is in the Marcellus.
And it's not across the board in Marcellus it's with that part of our fleet which is not contracted.
There's no question about that.
And it's built into our budget that we experience margin compression in the Marcellus.
Margin compression in other areas would be driven primarily by cost inflation.
And I fully expect that we'll see some inflationary factors during the course of 2012.
We've got a bit of an offset here in that where we're putting new fracturing fleets are in places where we already have existing facilities.
And so one would normally think that the incremental margins that come in with those activities as a result of not having to go out and build a bunch of infrastructure are kind of better.
So really what you see there is you see kind of flat margins year-over-year overall in the fracturing business if you exclude the one fleet we have in the Marcellus that is going to see low margins because it's underutilized.
As far as the supply chain goes listen as has been clear I think for the last couple of years the supply chain overall in the fracturing business has been extremely tight.
Complete experienced some of that on the equipment side with fluid ends during the course of 2011.
You heard some of the other fracturing companies talk about it in terms of proppant and guar and other things.
In Complete's case they're a bit fortunate in that some of their contracts have customers providing for proppant and chemicals.
And so that buffers them a bit from problems in the supply chain.
But everybody's got a bit of exposure there.
I think this is what you can look forward to.
That supply chain has been building out during the course of the last couple of years.
And as we've seen with equipment and fluid ends it does work itself out.
You didn't hear a lot of people talking about fluid end problems during Q4 whereas if you go back and think about the prior 5 or 6 quarters you heard people talk a lot about fluid ends.
So I think it's just an example of how as that supply chain matures the potential interruptions begin to fade.
And I would expect that we'll begin to see that or continue to see that during the course of 2012.
As far as overall capacity goes there's no doubt going to be attrition that occurs as we've got so many of these fracturing pumps which are exposed to extreme work environments today be it in the form of high pressure or just in general utilization based on the numbers of stages they're treating on a daily basis.
So attrition is going to take care of some of this fleet.
But I think more than anything as we continue to see expanded activities in horizontal drilling in the oil areas that's going to press demand.
And maybe one day we'll get a better gas price and so some of the activity in the Marcellus and Haynesville comes back.
I'm not counting on that this year by the way but maybe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's excellent color.
And last question for me you gave a good overview of CapEx where it's going geographically and expansion versus maintenance capital.
You also went through kind of what you're spending on.
But give us some sense of the kind of the percent breakdown.
I mean is 1 million feet of drill pipe is that half your CapEx or is that 20% of CapEx? And same kind with coiled tubing and water management how does that break out if I were to look at a pie chart of your spending? I wish I could spend half of our capital budget on drill pipe.
I'm sure [indiscernible] does too by the way.
But no it doesn't represent 50% of our capital budget.
In fact in all 3 of those areas premium drill pipe coiled tubing water management I mean think of them in terms of less than 15% of capital budget in each of those individual areas not collectively.
And our next question is from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One sort of more big picture.
My sense was 6 months ago before -- maybe a little more than that before CTX deal your sort of long-term goal was to sort of be 1/3 Gulf 1/3 U.S.
land and 1/3 international.
And obviously that's changed short term and then you have the Marine asset sales as well.
How should we think about that 3 years out? I mean I know international growth is important but how do you see that evolving? Well I mean I think it depends greatly on how much more the North American market continues to evolve.
I mean first off you can kind of put Gulf of Mexico off to the side.
Gulf of Mexico I don't think will ever be 1/3 of our revenue.
And Steve I want to walk you back as well because when the company began -- first began talking about that balance in revenue 1/3 1/3 1/3 was several years ago when we were a much bigger Gulf of Mexico company.
In fact really the strategy was to become a more diversified company in the U.S.
land and international markets.
So it was a strategy point I think that the company has grown past from a maturity standpoint.
But let me get back to your question.
I mean we see long term the best growth opportunities in this company being international.
I think there's no question about it.
It's the part of the market that we are today least represented in.
It's the part of our market share that is most immature.
And so long term international is a place where we see our best growth opportunity.
That being said the North American market has changed quite a bit you'll have to admit in the last couple of years.
And as the North American market continues to evolve we position ourselves to be a big player in that and we want to continue to participate at a significant level.
So a lot of your question depends on what happens to the North American market over the next 2 to 3 years.
And do we see even further increases in overall oil drilling? Do we see new oil basins and liquid-rich basins which drive our customers' investment? If they do then we're going to follow that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fair.
And listen we're big believers in North America.
So I don't disagree with what you're doing.
Just to follow up on that.
I mean I'm really pleased with our exposure in the North American market.
Remember it is the largest single service oil and gas service market the world.
And I won't apologize for our presence in it.
And as it grows -- as it has grown this company has grown.
And it's been the single biggest contributor to our overall earnings increase over the past 2 years.
And listen I hope it is over the next 2 years as well.
Research Division</strong> As I look at -- just so I understand the dynamics a little bit the well abandonment and decommissioning business what does the Marine sale mean for that? It has no impact on that.
I mean the company's strategy many years ago was related to the liftboats.
And this was described to me when I came onboard the liftboat was thought of as a taxi cab.
It was taxi cab that carry out other services be it a plug-in abandonment spread or coiled tubing spread or wireline unit whatever it may be.
And there was a point in time where those buying decisions as far as those distinct assets go were grouped together by customers.
That's changed in the last few years and our customers really don't lump those decisions together the way they used to.
So not having liftboats has no impact on our ability to sell and service the other parts of our product line.
And our next question is from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave 2 for you.
The first one is to the extent that you're still involved in relocating your assets and I'm thinking of the combined companies obviously how far along do you think you are with the process? Or do you think as you're looking out for your view for 2012 are you most of the way there? Are you done? Just can you give us an update there? Well asset relocation hasn't been a big part of what we've done to this point.
I think -- let me break this down a little bit for you.
There are 2 basins that we're talking about that you would look to as potential places where you may relocate assets from.
One is the Marcellus.
And I think I stated that really we would -- we do not have plans to relocate at this point in time the one fleet that we have up there that's been working on call-out.
We will leave it in the Marcellus unless we see an opportunity somewhere else out in the U.S.
market that is just too good for us to pass up.
We don't have a plan to relocate coiled tubing assets from the Marcellus at this point nor any other assets.
In the Haynesville I fully expect and have been waiting for the opportunity to transfer assets mainly coiled tubing units pump down units and frac stacks as the rig count has deteriorated and has been deteriorating for the last 14 months.
We have not relocated any of those assets yet either.
That market I fully expect will be coming down as we work through the completions backlog.
And as we do we are counting on taking some of those assets into the Permian Basin and South Texas and Mid-Continent as the year progresses.
I want you to keep in mind the assets that I mentioned.
Relocating a coiled tubing unit or a pump down unit or a frac stack is a lot less complicated than relocating a frac fleet.
And so we really are not planning on significant cost disruptions when we do reach a point where those assets are relocated.
I fully expect it to happen.
It just hadn't happened yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And second one not completely fair considering how long you've owned Complete but I'll throw it out there anyway.
You didn't do the acquisition for cost savings.
But in your guidance that you've put out there for the combined companies are you assuming any cost savings between the 2 companies or can you just give us some color there? Yes.
Well I mean your recollection is certainly correct.
We didn't do the acquisition in this combination from a cost efficiency standpoint.
We do understand there is a small level of corporate costs which doesn't need to be duplicated between the 2 companies.
And that is -- elimination of that duplication is included in the overall budget.
But I'd tell you this it's insignificant.
It's less than $20 million.
And it's embedded within that savings embedded within our SG&amp;A.
Yes so it's -- that is the only area of consolidation benefit that we've incorporated in the budget.
Now if you listened to me over the last few months since we announced the deal is that the full extent of what we'll be able to accomplish as far as consolidation? I have no idea I really don't.
I mean there may be some opportunities.
And I think there will be some opportunities in the field as we combine facilities at some point in time for some type of overall efficiency gain.
But you've got to remember most of the Complete facilities in the U.S.
are chock-a-block.
They've been busy and they've been adding assets to them.
Most of the Superior's facilities in the U.S.
are in the same state.
And so you don't have this real obvious opportunity to go take everything that may be in Odessa Texas and move it on to one yard.
We're going to have to go locate new property if we're going to do that build a new facility.
And so estimating what the benefit is from that standpoint in cost efficiency is really I think just an exercise in futility at this point.
And if so I gave you a lot of verbiage there but the answer to your question is no.
We have not embedded any other cost efficiency other than that minor corporate cost that I mentioned.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Quick question is around DPS.
Just trying to gauge growth.
I mean you've also been pointing out Dave that the rental business internationally is part of the best entrée to new markets.
If we take the 350 000 or so feet of pipe that you're looking to deploy over the year internationally how does that compare to what's currently out there just to kind of gauge the growth rate that we're looking at? Blake I don't know that I can answer that question specifically for you.
I'll give you what I think though.
I mean it's -- we're talking about a fleet addition from a pipe standpoint that's in the 10% to 20% range.
It's not 50% or 60% from that standpoint.
But don't even hold me specifically to those numbers because I couldn't tell you off the top of my head exactly what our number of feet of pipe we have in international markets is.
And just kind of going back to what you said rental anytime that we can carry out an international expansion with rental being at the tip of the spear we'd love to do it because its fixed cost profile makes it such a low-risk expansion opportunity for us.
Not every market affords you that opportunity but it certainly would be what we'd like to do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And it just struck me the pretty large number perhaps against the installed base just curious.
If we look at the pipe to be deployed in the U.S.
are we still seeing a strong trend towards displacing the pipe string on working rigs or will lot of that be tied to what we see in the new builds? Some of it's tied to new builds some of it is putting strings of pipe where API pipe is attempted to be used today just because the supply premium pipe is not there.
What we hadn't seen yet is we hadn't seen a migration of any significance to different sizes.
But we've still got operators that are utilizing basically the same size same property drill pipe that they were using a year ago.
At some point in time our operators are going to get an idea to change hole size.
And when they do that then we'll be headed in a different direction on drill pipe buy a different sized drill pipe.
We haven't seen that yet.
So what you see going in at 2012 is really to satisfy demand in markets that we've opened for premium drill pipe and it's primarily going to be displacing either API pipe or something else that was being used.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly you mentioned in BPS accommodations kind of led the commentary.
I was wondering if you're seeing anything interesting there in terms of is that business still just very well site oriented or is it changing to anything longer term in nature as we head into some of these basins that have very high permanent housing demand? From our standpoint the only thing that we're addressing is well site and drill site accommodations.
And that's what's embedded in this budget that's from a strategic standpoint.
That's all we're attempting to address at this point.
And our next question is from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First question is a follow-up to Marshall's question and your response to the fleet attrition on the frac business.
How much horsepower would you guys expect to retire this year? I don't believe that there is any horsepower that's expected to be retired from the legacy Complete fleet this year.
I mean obviously as time goes on John that changes but I have not heard them mention anything about retirement of assets.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I hate to keep beating you up on pressure pumping but like everyone else has.
But when you -- I think most people have recognized the fact that there's pricing pressures now in the frac market.
And my question is actually on coiled tubing because you're starting to see the same level of new build activity that we witnessed with pressure pumping.
And I'm just wondering if you see a similar trend emerging later this year in terms of the pricing opportunities pressures within coiled tubing.
And if not why would we not see that? I don't see it in 2012.
I mean I think that even with the fleet additions that have been discussed for 2012 I think we're still going to be undersupplied for coiled tubing units on completions.
And so what happens next? Because let's talk through this a little bit because you have -- clearly you keep building coiled tubing units and unless there's significant changes in ours or your market assumptions for 2012 and beyond there's going to be a point in time where that market comes more into balance.
I think what we're going to see as the next step is not so much of price deterioration.
It's going to be a return of some of the coiled tubing fleet to doing intervention work which if you've heard me speak about this in the past that's not such a bad thing.
I mean that's a different business model than coiled tubing is a completion tool for sure.
It's one that when you doing intervention work you have the opportunity to provide tools that are used on the end of that coiled tubing unit.
You have the opportunity to provide chemicals and treatments that are sold to be pumped through that coil.
It's a business that's something more than just renting a coiled tubing unit and a crew which is in essence what we do in the completions market today.
So is that a price change? No it's not really a price change.
It's just -- it's another market opportunity that develops because our intervention activities with coiled tubing today are so low.
Do you follow me? And our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'll take one more run at international CapEx.
The CSS budgets have been pretty chunky.
Is there a way to get the '11 and '12 international CapEx figures maybe ex Hallin? Don't have them in front of me that are broken out that way Dan.
It's something that we could think about in the future.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is the -- let me -- the simpler way is the CSS spending up or down to complete at this year versus '11? Overall it's close to flat.
I mean we've had -- this is now 2012 being kind of a third year of construction spend on the CSS project.
And you described it as lumpy.
It's lumpy from one quarter to the next but annually it's been fairly -- it's been fairly consistent.
That's roughly $120 million overall investment.
So overall my numbers aren't going to be perfect in 2010 and 2011 on spend on the CSS but it's been roughly $40 million $45 million a year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then as a second on the Gulf of Mexico rental tools side the revenue rebound there has been pretty healthy.
You guys are already within eyesight of kind of your Gulf of Mexico rental top line in first half '10 sort of pre-Macondo.
Have you picked up share or is there anything we're seeing there that's gotten you up to a pretty robust level here even before you talk about the forecast Dave for incremental deepwater rig adds heading through '12? Yes well I'd love to -- are you just looking at the rental segment for that? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just rentals not bringing in the completion side.
Obviously completion tools has the net adds since the pre-Macondo.
I'd love to tell you we've gained market share but we had equipment on 31 of the 33 rigs that were drilling in deepwater pre-Macondo.
So it must be more related to mix which will happen.
I mean mix can be affected by different pipe sizes different landing string sizes and also different metallurgy within those types of pipe.
So it's probably more mix within the product line than anything else.
And our next question is from the line of Matt McGeary with Sentinel Investments.
Inc.</strong> Just one last one on the international CapEx.
You talked about Argentina specifically.
Could you just sort of flesh out a little bit what you're -- I know it's early innings in your thinking down there but that's a market that hasn't been so kind to everyone over the years and just sort of thinking about what -- I just want to know what you're thinking about that market and how you approach a market like that? Well I think what we're thinking is that it's a market that will develop a demand for the same types of services that we provide in the shale areas of the U.S.
today which for us it kind starts with coiled tubing and premium drill pipe in all likelihood involves now with our acquisition pressure pumping.
And so that's kind of how I think about it from a product line standpoint.
The Argentina market is one that certainly over the last 40 years or at least last 20 years that I've been involved in the Argentina market like many markets it goes through kinds of ebbs and flows and it's for the past 3 or 4 years been in a difficult spot.
But I think with tremendous attention that's being placed on the unconventional resource in the country and with the types of customers which are being attracted to the market it seems pretty clear to me that over the course of the next few years we're going to see that market in a stage of expansion.
And it seems like a good place for us to be.
And our final question is from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Dave I'm curious how acquisitions fit into your CapEx budget for '12 and specifically if you have any interest in adding more pumping equipment for your acquisition to gain scale in any one basin? Yes.
Well I mean we don't budget for acquisitions.
And so there are no -- there is no element of acquisition within our capital budget.
I think as I commented we have reduced really the level of capital spending.
And I should say this is no reduction that's driven by me.
Brian Moore and I have discussed over the last several months and Brian reached a conclusion on his own that reducing overall capital additions in pressure pumping would be a wise move in 2012.
And so that's what's being carried out.
So we'll kind of cut back on what we're putting out there in 2012.
To go out and do asset acquisitions I think would be kind of counter to that overall strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
What about -- is there a desire to kind of concentrate the equipment more maybe to get a little bit better scale in some basins you have -- you're a little bit longer-term believer in or...? Yes well I mean I think that is part of our strategy in 2012.
And in fact the fleet additions that do occur in 2012 are concentrating our position and improving our concentrated position in the Eagle Ford and Mid-Continent the Permian Basin and in the Bakken.
Those are certainly places that we still see demand growth.
We're still being asked by customers for additional capacity in those markets.
And I think that if you think about the overall U.S.
market in total they're probably the basins that have the longest legs going forward.
So that's clearly part of our strategy.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for joining us and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT conferencing.