Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Superior Energy's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded July 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Greg Rosenstein Executive Vice President Corporate Development and Relations.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During the call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We recorded quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $291 million and net income of $68.6 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
As we outlined in our pre-earnings announcement a couple of weeks ago second quarter earnings were impacted by the relocation of pressure pumping equipment from the Barnett to the Permian and Eagle Ford PEMEX's decision to reduce its activity for the remainder of the year which impacted our coiled tubing revenue and extreme flooding in North Dakota which reduced activity for our completion of production-related services in the Bakken.
As a result of these factors I would categorize our second quarter shortfall as a revenue miss.
Our gross profit EBITDA and operating margins all experienced slight sequential upticks.
The Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment was the most impacted by the factors mentioned earlier.
And as a result experienced a 7% sequential decrease in revenue.
However increased service intensity and pressure pumping helped to drive a slight increase in overall profit margins.
The margin profile for Superior is stable despite the U.S.
land market that has remained flat.
This is because we are managing our U.S.
land businesses to maintain margins rather than grow market share.
And we are able to show significant growth in other geographic markets.
Year-to-date our Gulf of Mexico revenue has increased 34% over the first 6 months of 2012 and our international revenue despite the slowdown in Mexico has grown 13% over the same period.
On a sequential basis our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% primarily due to our Drilling Products and Services segment as well as some seasonal increases in shallow water work from our subsea and technology solutions segment.
In addition we're experiencing a robust market for completion tools and services.
We anticipated that this would be an excellent year for completions and stimulation work in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so far this market is exceeding our expectations.
International revenue increased 9% on a sequential basis due to the anticipated seasonal recoveries of 4 subsea construction work in Asia Pacific increased rentals to premium drill pipe in South America and better-than-anticipated results for production services in Argentina and Colombia.
The field continue to perform well in terms of managing costs and capital spending during the period.
And as we will discuss in the outlook section we anticipate capital spending for the year to come in at the low end of our budget.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the first quarter 2013.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue is $205 million and income from operation was $6 million which represents a 6% sequential increase in revenue and 5% sequential increase in operating income.
For the second consecutive quarter international revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate at 12% to $56 million due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe in Asia Pacific Latin America and the Middle East.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% to $75 million with the biggest increases coming from premium drill pipe and accommodation.
U.S.
land revenue was unchanged in $74 million.
This segment's gross profit margins was slightly higher due to business mix as premium drill pipe was the fastest-growing business line.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue is $398 million and income from operations was $47 million which represents a 7% sequential decrease in revenue and a 6% sequential decrease in income from operation.
Our pressure pumping revenue decreased 5% due to downtime associated with moving equipment between basins and weather in North Dakota partially offsetting this factors was increased revenues in the Eagle Ford and Marcellus.
Operating margin in pressure pumping were over 150 basis points higher due to the increased service intensity especially in the Eagle Ford.
Revenue from fluid management services and well service rigs was also lower partially due to the weather issues in the Bakken.
Fluid management also experienced lower heating-related revenue.
Production services segment revenue is up slightly to $369 million while operating income decreased 26% to $21 million.
The primary factors for the lower operating margin was the decrease in coiled tubing revenue in Mexico and lower snubbing activity in certain international markets.
U.S.
land revenue increased 7% to $231 million primarily due to increases in snubbing and remedial pumping.
Our coiled tubing revenue in the U.S.
was unchanged relative to Q1 due to weather in the Bakken.
We saw improved coiled tubing activity in the Permian and Anadarko basins.
Despite the flat revenue coiled tubing margins did improve.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was unchanged at $54 million.
International revenue decreased 13% to $84 million primarily due to lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico and demand for snubbing services in Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $187 million which represents a 26% increase from the first quarter.
This segment's income from operations was $9 million compared to $6 million loss from operations in the first quarter.
International showed the largest increase at 48% to $71 million in revenue with increased subsea construction in the Asia Pacific and sales of completion tools as the primary driver.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 14% to $96 million primarily due to a seasonal recovery in optional P&amp;A and decommissioning work in a strong completions market which drove higher demand for completion and stimulation tools and services.
U.S.
land revenue increased 23% to $20 million.
Turning to the balance sheet.
As of June 30 our debt was $1.8 billion debt to EBITDA as of the end the quarter was 1.5x and debt to total capital was 29%.
Capital additions in the second quarter were about $161 million and from a modeling perspective in the third quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $156 million to $159 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $155 million to $158 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $27 million and should use a weighted average share count of about 151 million for the quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release we've narrowed our earnings guidance range to $1.75 to $1.95 per share with a midpoint reflecting the lower end of our prior guidance.
We have consistently discussed 4 themes regarding our earnings guidance for the year: First we believe that we have good visibility in forecasting strong growth in the Gulf of Mexico and international markets; second the range of outcomes for our earnings was largely dependent on the pace of change for completion and production related activity in the U.S.; third because of a lack of visibility into that pace of change as defined by factors such as horizontal rig count activity well count horizontal footage drill drilling efficiencies and customer spending we established a wide band for earnings guidance to reflect the various outcomes; fourth the second quarter would be the inflection point that would give us some visibility into the slope and intensity of U.S.
completions activity for the second half of the year.
Based on the first half results and our updated guidance our products and services outside of the U.S.
completions and production-related markets should collectively perform better than anticipated in 2013.
Despite this outperformance the earnings guidance is now at the lower end of our prior rage because we have not seen an increase in U.S.
activity during the first half of 2013 and do not believe a meaningful ramp in activity will occur during the back half of the year.
Activity has been flat and could improve slightly from here but not enough to achieve the higher end of our prior guidance.
All of that being said we're confident the second half of 2013 spend from our customers will be similar to the second quarter if not slightly better.
And although Q4 visibility is not perfect we would expect only a mild seasonal decline in December that is more holiday-related than budget-related.
We've done an excellent job of maintaining margins and anticipate that our overall margins in the second half of the year will look similar to Q2 with a possibility of a slight uptick.
I believe that we're holding market share in our core U.S.
land product lines but certainly not pursuing share increases for the sake of adding revenue at less than acceptable margins.
We have underutilized capacity in the U.S.
and we will look for opportunities to deploy that capacity in some of our new international businesses or wait until we have a better market environment in the U.S.
before that capacity is put back to work.
We anticipate that our capital expenditures for 2013 will come in at the lower end of our prior guidance which is at it implies the range of $600 million to $650 million.
The lower capital spending estimate for 2013 along with improvements in working capital put us in a position to generate in excess of $200 million in free cash during 2013 with an expectation of even higher free cash generation in 2014.
We now expect the balance of our credit facility to be at 0 early in Q4 and consistent with what we've communicated to shareholders during the past year we will then be in a position to return free cash to shareholders.
Finally a few words about one of our own.
In the oil and gas service industry we all aspire to be the company that gets the call from the customer when that customer is in the greatest need when they're in the biggest bind when they're desperate for help to solve a potentially catastrophic problem.
Our customers call the company that they can count on to solve their problems.
And then that problem is related to the most dangerous of all problems the control of an oil and gas well they call Wild Well Control.
And for many years that conversation has started with Patrick Campbell.
Pat Campbell passed away this past Saturday.
Pat has been retired from the company since 2012.
He participated in well control events around the world from the Kuwait oil fires in 1991 to the BP Deepwater Horizon blowout and oil spill.
But Pat's greatest contribution was in the training and development of a generation of well control responders.
A generation that's in the field today and in his efforts to build a business that is synonymous with oil field emergency response and prevention.
Pat was a pioneer a leader and a great friend.
He will be greatly missed by an industry and a company that is forever grateful for his loyalty innovative spirit and his great business acumen.
And with that we'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Maybe if we could start with pressure pumping.
You redeployed some spreads during this quarter.
Could you maybe give us a little bit of reset in terms of -- I believe you're pretty well contracted through the end of the year is it a little too early to start having discussions about contract rollovers for next year be it in the Eagle Ford or maybe with the one spread in the Marcellus? Yes.
I mean it's something that we've had -- we have contracts that are expiring 2013.
In fact in terms of contract roll over if you really -- if you look back on the second quarter we had 2 contracted fleets in the Barnett that were near contract expiration.
The customers wanted to terminate those contracts early.
We agreed to the terms and move the horsepower to support and extend existing contracts in the Eagle Ford and the Barnett.
And to support fleets that were working on the Permian Basin.
In some cases the horsepower went to work for new customers.
So I mean really as we think about this this is an ongoing part of our fracturing business we've got contracts that roll on 2013.
What we've said about this consistently is we believe we'd put the horsepower to work in other basins whether it’s in the spot market or under new contracts.
And that's exactly what we experienced during the second quarter.
So -- and I think that's what you can anticipate as we look forward to the contract expirations in 2014 and 2015.
And then you mentioned maybe deploying some assets to the international markets if things aren't necessarily improving a lot domestically.
Would that be specifically maybe looking at some smaller diameter coil? Or could it even be some idle pressure pumping spreads? I think more likely coiled tubing -- coiled tubing is an area that we've be looking at for the past several quarters.
We've got some smaller diameter units not very many that are in the fleet but some smaller diameter units that would have potential uptick in some of the new international markets for us but even some of the larger diameter coiled tubing units can be converted to use for 1.75-inch or 1.5-inch pipe which is more predominantly in demand in the international markets for a fairly reasonable amount of money.
So I mean we'll continue to look at opportunities to place coiled tubing its international.
We do have some part in stacked hydraulic horsepower if the right opportunity came along it would be interesting to us to move horsepower into the international markets.
But there's nothing that's immediately pending on that front.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You said wait until we have a better market in the U.S.
What makes you think that we will or even need to have a better market in the U.S? We're at great levels everybody's busy the rig count's high.
We're meeting gas needs why does the market have to go higher? Well I think in general there's an anticipation that at some point in time with a higher gas demand and I don't believe that's in 2013 Jim.
But with a higher gas demand and more gas activity that there would be a need for additional assets in the completions market in particular and probably from a drilling standpoint as well.
And do we need it? Yes we've got good businesses that are out there today.
I think in general when we went through more capital expansion in 2012 we anticipated over a long period of time a rig count that was more in the 2 000 to 2 200 range.
And so we've got some capacity that we could put to work if the market migrated to that point.
In the meantime we'll utilize what we have done from an international business establishment standpoint to see if we could transfer some of those assets to other places.
And that basically just saves us on what future investment would have been in order to equip some of those newer areas.
So either way it kind of works to our benefit.
And you're right the business is performing quite well today.
Research Division</strong> Well this is the concern.
You're doing a great job in my opinion in dealing with the market.
But if the market is continuing to move idle equipment in the U.S.
overseas for the next couple of years that to me implies a more negative view of the U.S.
market which is the biggest market over the next couple of years.
So my concern is when we're all expecting the rig count to go up now we've all been told that rig count is not going to up for the rest of the year why can't it not go up in '14 too? Well I think it certainly could go up in 2014 and 2015.
And as it stands today I mean the stacked equipment that we have in the U.S.
would be available for that market uptick.
In the meantime I mean for us capital investment in a coiled tubing unit or a pressure pumping fleet or a cement unit I mean generally those are assets which are constructed in an identical fashion whether it's for U.S.
market or an international market.
And so what we would do is we'd take some of those assets that are under deployed in the U.S.
and put them into international and that means we don't have to go build future assets for the U.S.
if the market steps up.
But they're interchangeable I guess is my point.
I'd rather take equipment that we've already invested in and start generating earnings with it sooner.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I agree.
And you've got lots of possibilities to do that.
I mean you've said where you won't go.
You won't go to China.
You won't go to Russia.
The places that you are are any of those being disappointing? Or any of those not living up to expectations? We've been particularly happy with the Latin American market.
I think we've got -- I think we've raised our flag in the right places in Latin America.
Those are markets which could be very good for consuming some of the same underutilized capacity that we're talking about that's in the U.S.
today.
Now we're doing a lot more work in Asia and building out market position there.
There are markets in Asia which could take those assets as well.
More of the Asian markets will need skid mounted equipment and that's not typically what we've built for the U.S.
land market.
But certainly in Latin America or Indonesia or Australia Saudi Arabia those are all places that can take the types of assets that we have available.
Our next question comes from the line of James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave how much capacity in the U.S.
do you have the stacked right now? And how much I guess excess capacity are you looking at as we think about a market that maybe gets better or maybe you ship capacity overseas for better opportunities? What kind of an uptick could we see on overall utilization of equipment? So overall we've got somewhere in the neighborhood of 150 000 horsepower on the fracturing side.
In coiled tubing and I'll say that that the hydraulic horsepower was actually parked.
I mean it is stacked in facilities where -- if you want to think of them as idle yards.
In the case of coiled tubing we probably have in the neighborhood of 10 to 15 coiled tubing units that if we took them out of the fleet would not be missed at this point in the market.
So I'd say at 10 to 15 coiled tubing units so that's about 15% of our overall capacity in coiled tubing that's in excess.
Outside of that we've got some water assets in trucks and frac tanks that are a bit underutilized but those aren't really the types of assets that would be good to transfer to an international market.
Those are assets that are really more geared towards the U.S.
We don't have any excess service rigs and then our service rig fleet has maintained a pretty high utilization.
We could stand to do some more completions work as opposed to production work but the assets are being well utilized.
So I hope that clarifies it for you.
Research Division</strong> No it does it.
Then just a follow for me.
With respect to Mexico this obviously disruptions during the quarter we've heard from the large-cap service companies that for me I guess was a little bit mixed view but most of them are winning new contracts but don't expect to have a big pick up until next year.
Is that consistent with kind of your view of at least the northern part of Mexico? Yes it is.
I mean what we've heard out in Northern Mexico is they've moved to drill on some horizontal wells there and are evaluating the performance of those horizontal wells versus their traditional drilling program.
It would certainly not be a terrible outcome for PEMEX in the north to start doing more long lateral horizontal drilling.
But you guys know what that means from a budget standpoint.
You start replacing vertical wells with horizontal wells and you will move through your budget a lot faster than you anticipated.
And so I think that's the primary driver.
It feels like that's an issue that they could be past by early 2014 but we'll see.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Dave one of your competitors in the Gulf of Mexico recently announced that they're going to build another stimulation vessel in the gulf.
And it certainly seems like the market is strong down there.
What would be your thoughts as to potentially adding capacity into that market? So here's what I've heard on the competitive front is that there has been some talk about placing some additional vessels in the market.
I need to kind of draw you to a distinction.
We have in one case what I describe -- and the market has been mainly comprised of what I've described as permanent setups of stimulation plans on vessels.
The investments to set up a Gulf of Mexico stimulation vessel with a permanent set up with built-in horsepower and tankage and everything else was on the order of $30 million to $40 million.
That's one set up.
That's what the market has had in place going into 2013.
What I have heard from a competitive standpoint is the set up that I will refer to as more of a temporary set-up.
Where you take skid mounted equipment and either chain it or tack weld it to the deck of a vessel to provide temporary capacity addition.
That's the type of additions that I've been hearing about.
And we've had some conversations with our guys about doing something similar in the marketplace.
So the difference in investment is significant.
For a full-blown new stimulation vessel $30 million $40 million $50 million investment will not be unusual.
To set up on a temporary basis is less than a couple of million dollars.
For less than a couple of million dollars in the right kind of market we would certainly be interested in doing something like that.
I'm not terribly motivated to go invest $40 million in a new steamboat when a year ago we were still at breakeven margins on stimulation vessels on the Gulf.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And second question Dave concerns Mexico.
Number one how much of your businesses is outside the north and is expansion in southern Mexico a priority for you at this time? And secondly outside of coiled tubing are you looking at this market as one that you would bring other product lines into? So the business in Mexico is primarily comprised of coiled tubing.
We've had some well control work in Mexico over the years and our Wild Well Control group has also been in conversations with PEMEX about containment equipment this type of thing.
The primary business that we have done there is coiled tubing.
This is a legacy complete business that came along with the acquisition of a few years ago.
The coiled tubing business is scattered throughout the land markets in the south as well as the north.
And its business it's been in place for a number of years.
So I mean that kind of explains the legacy of what we have in coiled tubing.
We are already in the south as well as the north of Mexico from a coiled tubing standpoint.
So your -- the second part of your question had to do with expansion.
I've said it before I mean traditionally the way that PEMEX is operating has not provided the most reliable environment I guess you could say for service companies in Mexico.
And we are certainly prioritizing from an international expansion standpoint those countries that offer the highest degree of reliability and certainty in margins and return.
And by definition Mexico doesn't wind up in that definition.
That doesn't mean that things couldn't change at some point in PEMEX and a more reliable environment exist for us but my impression of that right now would be it would be a hard place to go and make a big commitment on a new investment.
We just have other more secure places to go to today.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave could you give us some sense of what the actual revenue or profit impact was just with the weather and issues you mentioned in the second quarter that hopefully don't recur in the third quarter? Yes it's on the order of $20 million or so in revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the Drilling Product and Services segment you guys talked about the -- a pretty big sequential increase I think it was 12% in international revenues related mostly to rentals.
Just maybe a little color on the sustainability of that kind of what you see opportunity wise for that going forward? The sustainability is quite high.
I mean it's scattered around it's not one -- any one particular place.
And so the sustainability is quite good.
Rental tools continues to be the area of highest capital investment for us for the remainder of 2013 and it will be in 2014 as well.
So that capital investment is in place somewhat to maintain revenue because rental tools is a capital intensive product line but also to expand.
We've got some great contracts that start up particularly on the landing string side of the business in Brazil later this year and some of our capital going to that.
And we just see a continued stream of continued rental -- new rental opportunities and contracts kicking up for us internationally over the next several years.
Our next question comes from the line of Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
Dave you framed the full year revised guidance as tightening the range.
And thinking about the lower end of that range being $0.10 below where it was before what are the key assumptions that would have to play out to get you there? I mean it doesn't sound like you necessarily see a fall off in activity into yearend aside from maybe normal holiday issues.
So I'm just curious as to how do you think about the key assumptions growing the low end because it...
Yes I mean to get the lower end now of our revised guidance range it would anticipate that we're wrong about the holiday season being a problem in Q4 instead we see more of a fall off which we have not seen or heard any evidence from customers to support.
Weather can kick in in Q3 in the form of hurricanes.
It could kick in in Q4 on the form of other weather-related problems in the month of December.
So it would take factors such as that.
I mean certainly things that don't seem to be in the in the offing at the moment but that's what it would take.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave if you look at the product lines within the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment it appears there's still more capacity to be delivered in the next 6 to 12 months thus presumably a bit more industry deconsolidation.
Assuming that plays out and activity levels stay at or near your current levels do you think you can maintain margins? Yes.
At this point we think we can.
I mean we've seen some equipment additions come in to the market over the -- not so much in 2013 but certainly at the back half of 2012.
And we've been able to maintain margins are really kind of flat with where they were by mid-quarter in Q3.
And so overall I'm not too concerned about the type of pricing impact that that type of competitive pressure would bring.
We do hear more anecdotally about some of the smaller companies and certain of these product lines which are now beginning to downsize from a labor standpoint.
And so that takes some capacity out of the market and maybe that offsets the whatever minor revisions you're speaking of John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another one not sure if you said this or not earlier in the call I apologize.
But can you share the revenue expectations supporting the earnings guidance in the second half? Yes.
I don't think we've given the number overall.
But if you think about -- from your model standpoint I'm sure Greg would be able to help you out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I guess the last one for me Dave is just on the service intensity helping lift margins.
Is that a function of the more profit more stages? Or more 24-hour work? What are some of the specific items that are either on the service intensity? Yes so we had -- I mean it's a result of a few more of the fleets working on 7 days and what we saw in the first quarter as well as just overall efficiency gains and probably more than anything efficiency gains by customers in South Texas and the Permian Basin really drove that service intensity to us to generate the kind of the margin level we did in the second quarter on the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you see that rising from here? Yes I mean moderately.
I mean a lot of talk's given to the overall efficiency gains and yet the way I see this is that I think most of our operators have reached close to on optimum efficiency early in 2013.
So the gains that are being made now are not like the year-over-year gains that we saw from '11 to '12.
They're more moderate they're more customer specific but they is still give you a slight upward pull towards generating a little bit better margin as you're working for customers to get a little bit more efficient.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Interested in the commentary in the release regarding the completion tools business as one of the -- being the first time that it looks like it's working kind of in concert internationally Gulf of Mexico onshore and in terms of the comparisons I'm wondering if there's anything new to report in terms of gains and tractions across different products? Any particular in these segments? Or really any color you can add to that? Or just kind of chalk it up to a good period.
Well I think it's the -- what we expect when we acquired those assets and the maturity of the business.
So we're just about the 3-year anniversary of that acquisition and it was a U.S.
business when we acquired it.
And we talk about how it's going to take us a few years to go build it out internationally.
And I think what we're experiencing now is that maturity of the international business being here coming through.
That in addition to the fact that their market share is doing -- quite well on the deepwater side in the Gulf of Mexico that drives very strong revenue for us and good margins that go along with the tool works.
I mean it's a function of Gulf of Mexico deepwater return and as well as maturity of the international business.
So it's not at an endpoint either by the way I mean we think that Gulf of Mexico market particularly from a deepwater standpoint continues to progress this year and probably next year and we'll also be accommodates new international markets as time goes on.
So it should provide a nice little growth catalyst going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to make sure because Mexico placed prominently in terms of the progression year of -- or dated from Q1 to Q2 in terms of progression or production services.
You also called out the snubbing business in Asia Pac.
I guess that's probably Australia that you're talking about.
I wanted to make sure that there's no kind of follow through on the weakness there and that's just kind of a 1-quarter issue? And then maybe we can use that as an on trade to -- we've talked a lot about South America maybe you can kind of reset where we stand in terms of the eastern hemisphere franchise in general here as for the back half of the year.
Okay.
So that was 3 questions.
I'm keeping them all in order here Blake.
So coiled tubing in Mexico certainly from Q1 to Q2 that was a negative that we experienced on the production services side of business.
We don't think that Mexico changes very much from Q2 to Q3 or then into Q4.
And then we'll get better insight as we get into our budget for 2014 as to what we anticipate in Northern Mexico from a spin level going forward.
So it seems to be kind of a second quarter and second half of the year issue.
And of all our -- the Q2 issues that we've talk about here a few weeks ago it's probably the one that is not perfectly transitory.
I mean we think the Bakken issues were certainly were transitory and the movement of horsepower were transitory.
But Mexico is probably not in that category and doesn't get better until 2014.
On the snubbing business snubbing business is a -- it's a service intensive business that at points in time when you're on a particular project and that project ends you'll see some interruption as that equipment moves around to the next project.
So I certainly don't see that as being something that we expect to continue on for the rest of the year.
Our snubbing guys have very strong and solid reputation internationally and what I have found is that when they finish one project they may be in transition for a few weeks until the next one.
But they rapidly put those assets back to work.
And finally your question about Latin America.
Latin America is progressing very much as we anticipated that it would.
The business in Argentina is outperforming expectations.
The business in Colombia is outperforming expectations.
Brazil is basically on target from an expectation standpoint.
And we've got 2 pretty significant contracts that start up towards the end of this year.
One as I've mentioned before Lyerhager [ph] contract that starts up in Q4; and secondly land stimulation contract which also starts up in the second half of the year.
So all those businesses are progressing quite well.
And of course we're very -- I personally am very encouraged by the commitment that we're hearing from some of our customers on shale development in Argentina which is not a 2013 impact I think but I think it puts us in position on having made a very good timely acquisition down there to get ourselves established.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
One Dave you talked -- you highlighted the strength of both the Gulf of Mexico and the international operations sort of this first half versus last year's first half.
What do you think of that growth rate in those 2 areas as we go forward here on a relative basis to what you've seen so far this year? Yes.
So I mean I'll stick with my -- the line I've consistently delivered on international.
I mean expect us to have opportunities to grow that international revenue top line 15% to 20% a year.
I mean if you want to count on something count on 15%.
There'll be some years worth a bit more than that there may be some that's a little bit less.
But more likely 15% growth is something I think you can count on and many of the areas that we have established business in the last 12 to 18 months are still at a very low point.
And so I feel very confident about that 15% to 20% growth rate internationally.
And Gulf of Mexico is a little bit different.
I mean we're going through a pretty unusual change in the marketplace with Macondo and post-Macondo.
The type of growth that we've experienced in the Gulf of Mexico which is in excess of 30% first half of the year compared to 2012.
That's probably not repeatable.
Although it certainly is clear that there is an upward bias to deepwater rig count over the next couple of years and we are very levered in Gulf of Mexico to deepwater drilling.
And so don't look for 30% year-over-year growth from '13 to '14 in the Gulf of Mexico.
But I could certainly support something that's in the low-teens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful color.
And then when we think about those 2 factors and how that plays out on the margin front I guess it depends more just on the ramp in North America as far as the relative margin performance.
But where do you see stand now as far as how the international margins look versus what you're doing currently in the U.S.? Yes I mean it differs a little bit from one country to the next than one product line to the next.
And I've been consistent in telling you guys that we're really prioritizing rental tool investment internationally.
And part of the reason for that is that those margins and returns are just spot on with what we've experienced in the North American business on rental tools.
Services is always going to be a little bit different.
And that -- when you do a start up with services it's -- you have got a lot of fixed cost initially and those start ups are typically characterized by lower utilization than what you're staffing up for at the very beginning.
And so in services start up you'll go through a period where you've got either start up losses or just lower margins until you work up to a utilization pace that's consistent with the investment that you've made.
So it just depends.
I mean if you look at your country were you're doing a startup from scratch with a rental tools you're going to be to generating margins that are consistent with our North American margins from day 1.
It's a little fixed cost.
If it's starting up in coiled tubing or cementing or something else like that then you might have a few months of lower margins before you get to the optimum utilization rate.
Did that answer your question Stephen? Research Division</strong> That did add some good color.
And I'm going to sneak in one more when you look at the second half guidance and you look at balancing your seasonality that you get in some of the businesses in the first -- fourth quarter with kind of growth in other areas do you think you'll see kind of the third quarter being the high point for the year? How should we think about that? Yes I kind of think about those quarters being fairly similar.
And that we expect to have a bit of build from an earnings standpoint I guess if you want to think of it that way during the course of the third quarter.
And so that kind of leads you to say well going into October you're probably at a pretty good pace.
In November you're probably at a pretty good pace and then it falls off some in December.
So I don't know it just depends on what kind of margin movement we see occurring during the third quarter.
I think that will be on upward movement.
And our earnings would certainly suggest that because earnings in the second half of the year progressing from where we are in Q2.
But right now I'm thinking about those quarters being fairly similar from an earnings standpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave I really think I just had a -- just one question left.
It's actually on the Subsea and Technical Solutions business.
If we look at that business sort of it's seasonal peak Q2 and Q3 is the biggest determinant of your margin performance there still the utilization of your decommissioning asset base? Or does the tools -- the completion tool business does that have the potential as it becomes a bigger portion of that mix to influence the margin level above where it's been historically? Yes.
Well I mean I think the Completions business certainly does have that opportunity to be a more stable component I guess over time.
I'll caution you that the completion tool business particularly can be a bit lumpy.
As are a lot of our businesses in that segment which is one of the reasons why it's in that segment is because it can be a bit lumpy.
If you've got a big order internationally you'll book that order at one particular time and then you may be running those tools on the hole for the next 2 quarters but you had a big lumpy revenue when you delivered the tools.
So it's not -- it's not a smooth business like those would be in completion or production or even on the rental side.
Overall from a margin standpoint that segment does suffer from the lumpiness that we see in the decommissioning business and it suffers from what are generally still low margins at Hallin Marine.
I mean those are the biggest factors that have kept margins down and I'd say that in the first half of the year in 2012 our well control work was a bit light and certainly Wild Well Control can have a big impact on margins in that business when they're busy.
But it was not a very busy first half of the year from a well control standpoint.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess I find myself a little confused so it's probably worth me just kind of trying to ask you guys to back up on your guidance with respect to your thought process with respect to Gulf of Mexico and international growth for this year.
And I say that just because I feel like on this call maybe it's been more measured than I thought I had been hearing from you over the last 6 months.
And so...
Not from the Gulf of Mexico standpoint for sure.
I mean the international commentary is certainly dampened somewhat by Mexico pulling us down.
So that was not something we anticipated.
With didn't expect a lot of growth in Mexico year-over-year but we certainly didn't expect the kind of fall off that we saw as a result of PEMEX's actions in the north.
And so that's creating a bit of a downdraft on that international business which -- I mean we overcome but it's certainly doesn't lift us up to the kind of growth rate that would've been available to us if Mexico just stayed flat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> I guess I understand that.
If I flatline your second quarter results you're still up internationally I think I'm not sure if my math is right and you're going to tell me -- but I think you're still up something in the range of 25% although I don't know if that's a right annualized number for a couple of different reasons maybe.
Is that...
Yes maybe closer to 20%.
But I mean you're in the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's kind of how you're -- it is a little softer by virtue of Mexico and...
Exactly right.
What we've been saying about international was we felt like the opportunity going into the year was a 25% to 30% as high 30% growth rate if some things went right.
With Mexico falling off unexpectedly as it did it puts us more in the 20% to 25% range but probably closer to 20%.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then I guess on the Gulf of Mexico side that's helping to compensate so you might well still be in the 30% growth range this year.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That helps.
If I may as an unrelated follow-up.
It's going to come off like I'm just a confused guy today and I guess that's because of all the separate earnings maybe.
But the -- in response to an earlier question I guess I might have expected you to say something more encouraging about ongoing absorption of completion equipment even in a flat rig count.
Just sort of that rising service intensity function.
Just for example longer laterals tying on that many more stages per well and all of that tying up coiled tubing for more than just linear periods of time.
Is that an exaggerated idea that we throw out there when we throw that out? Because you're again I feel like you're comments were a little bit more sort of rig count directed? Yes is not a -- I won't go so far as to say it's a -- to scold it for being an exaggerated idea.
Directionally you're correct.
Exaggerated maybe a bit too strong.
So I mean when I think about the coiled tubing revenue progression as there year goes on it's up in the second half of the year from the first half of the year but is up slightly.
I mean it's not a what I'd describe as a needle mover from a utilization standpoint.
I'm glad we have it and it's helpful when it causes margins to creep up a bit in that business along with revenue but it's -- I don't see it as a needle mover.
And it kind of goes back to something that I did mention earlier Brad about overall efficiency.
Yes as an industry or from a completions standpoint we're significantly more efficient today than we were a year ago.
Nearly all of our customers that are drilling horizontal wells have gotten more efficient.
But the efficiency gains that we're making now and going forward are not of the magnitude that they were a year ago.
And so it's -- now you're gaining hours instead of days in a lot of cases.
And so that's helpful but from a magnitude standpoint it's somewhat suppressed compared to what we've experienced over the last year.
Research Division</strong> That's interesting.
Does that relate to your perception let's say pad drilling as a proportion of the total is either slowing in its growth or that it had -- there's only limited legs on that idea? Well I mean I think that -- listen operators where they have the opportunity to pursue pad drilling will continue to look for opportunities to pursue pad drilling and so because it makes them more efficient.
I mean that's how they capture a lot of this efficiencies.
They're a lot more efficient one that they can skid over or have a rig that walks over to the next well and leave the completion equipment right where it is as opposed to putting everything on a truck and haul it off to the next location.
But it does not suit every part of the operating environment that we're in.
It doesn't suit every field it doesn't every opportunity even where a horizontal rig working.
So I mean listen I'd love if everyone of those horizontal rigs were pad.
We'd all be doing a lot better if that were the case.
But it's just not.
Research Division</strong> There are limits to it.
And it's just a practical expectation to have I think in the market.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any final remarks.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining us and we'll see you on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.