Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today October 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein with Superior Energy Services.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Well good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
As you no doubt saw yesterday we released earnings and reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $283 million and net income of $70 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
Since the fourth quarter of 2012 we have been in a relatively flat market in our U.S.
land businesses a market that has we estimate somewhere between 20% and 25% more capacity that could be supported by the current rig count.
Through the second quarter we were able to produce margins from that business that were relatively flat by focusing the businesses on good margin producing opportunities and avoiding what I'll call market share expansion traps.
However during the third quarter continued pricing pressure and inflationary pressure mostly in labor cost were more than we could overcome and margins were squeezed.
The product lines most impacted were in coiled tubing and fluids management.
Fluids management was also impacted by flooding in Colorado but I want to be clear that the bulk of our margin deterioration in the business was not transitory.
In the service rig business revenue was relatively flat while margins were down slightly not so much driven by pricing or inflation as they were down due to a mix of revenue and higher training costs than we anticipated and we'll talk some more about that later.
We expected an increase in hydraulic fracturing revenue from Q2 to Q3 but did not materialize.
Our asset relocation from Q2 is completed before the start of the quarter but a change in job mix from the gel fracs to more slick water fracs resulted in flat revenue overall from Q2 with slightly lower margins.
Still fracturing margins were in the range of 30% consistent with what we have generated in that business over the last 5 quarters.
All in relative to the second quarter our combined U.S.
land revenue from the Onshore Completion and Workover segment and the Production Services segment was down 1%.
However the combined EBITDA margin in those segments was down more than 200 basis points.
We are in the process of adjusting our cost structure in the U.S.
to ensure that we are optimizing our competitive position and margin performance.
Those efforts will be taking place during the course of Q4 many have already begun and may involve some associated severance cost.
You can assume minimal benefits during Q4 from these efforts but we should be in a position to benefit from these efforts by Q1 of 2014.
As for adjusting capacity we are actively seeking opportunities to transfer coiled tubing and potentially pumping services assets into some of our established international markets.
I think that in coiled tubing we should see opportunities to move at least 6 or 8 coiled units over the next year.
We continue to experience positive results at the Gulf of Mexico and international markets.
Year-to-date our Gulf of Mexico revenue has increased 32% and international revenues despite the slowdown in Mexico for coiled tubing has grown 13%.
On a sequential basis our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 7% impacted by strong well control work and increases in wireline completion tools and premium drill pipe in deep water.
International revenue increased 8% on a sequential basis due to increased subsea construction work in Asia Pacific and increased rentals of premium drill pipe in Asia Pacific Europe and Africa and bottom hole assemblies in Latin America.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our fourth quarter outlook and other developments.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter of 2013.
In the Drilling Products and Service segment revenue was $216 million and income from operations was $62 million which represents a 5% sequential increase in revenue and 4% sequential increase in operating income.
For the third consecutive quarter international revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate at 16% to $65 million due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe and bottom hole assemblies.
We also had increased accommodations revenue in Europe.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 3% to $78 million with the biggest increases coming from premium drill pipe specialty rentals and accommodations.
The U.S.
land revenue was down slightly to $73 million as a decline in premium drill pipe rentals was partially offset by increases in accommodations.
The segment's gross profit margin was about 160 basis points lower due to business mix however the operating margin was relatively flat.
On the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was unchanged at $398 million and income from operations was 29% lower to $33 million.
Our pressure pumping revenue was unchanged as increased revenue associated with relocating horsepower in the second quarter was offset by lower-priced service intensity and job mix.
A couple of our Eagle Ford fleets pumped significantly less sand as a worked on more slick water frac jobs.
Revenue from fluid management and our service rigs were also virtually unchanged.
In fluid management margins were impacted by job mix and lower pricing for storage in the Bakken and the flooding in Colorado.
In service rigs we incurred higher costs as we high-graded rigs and components and trained select crews to meet customer-specific requirements in higher service intensity completion activity.
Production Services segment revenue was down 3% to $360 million while operating income decreased 25% to $16 million.
The primary factors for the lower operating margin were competitive pressures in coiled tubing as customers continue to move forward service rigs and lower pressure wells and liquids-rich basins and lower margins for snubbing and remedial pumping work.
The U.S.
land revenue decreased 3% to $225 million primarily due to decreases in coiled tubing and wireline services.
The Gulf of Mexico revenues decreased 2% to $53 million as coiled tubing and snubbing revenue were lower.
International revenue decreased 3% to $82 million primarily due to lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico and snubbing work in Latin America.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $215 million which represents a 15% increase from the second quarter.
This segment's income from operations was $13 million which represents a 54% increase.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue was 16% to $111 million primarily due to an increase in well control work and completion tools and services.
International revenue also grew 15% to $82 million in revenue with additional subsea construction activity in Asia Pacific as the primary driver.
U.S.
land revenue improved 12% to $22 million.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the quarter we reduced debt by $130 million and presently have 0 drawn on the revolving line of credit.
As of September 30 our debt was $1.7 billion which is $260 million lower than this time last year.
The debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5x and debt to total capital was 27%.
Our balance sheet is extremely healthy.
In fact year-to-date the company has generated $169 million of free cash flow.
Capital additions during the third quarter were about $156 million and we expect full year capital additions to be in the range of $610 million to $625 million.
From a modeling perspective in the third -- in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $159 million to $163 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $160 million to $164 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $23 million to $25 million.
Weighted average share count should be approximately 161 million.
During the quarter we lowered our annual effective income tax rate to 35% from 37% as a result of federal income tax credit.
The cumulative catch-up in Q3 resulted in a quarterly tax rate of about 31%.
We do expect the fourth quarter tax rate to be about 35%.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
So beginning with this conference call we are changing the format of guidance we provide.
Since the merger was complete we introduced new segment reporting that offers greater insight and transparency into understanding the relationship between industry trends and drivers and our diverse products and services.
This is the fourth quarter that we've presented the company in its current segment format so I think most of you are accustomed to analyzing our business in the current model.
Beginning with this earnings call our intent is to provide you with qualitative perspectives and factors that could be applied to your outlook for these segments in the near term in this case we're speaking specifically about the fourth quarter.
And I'll now share with you some of our thoughts on those factors and drivers that could influence fourth quarter results.
First you should consider that the starting point or baseline operating income headed into the fourth quarter is lower than third quarter as a result of Gulf of Mexico well control projects that will not repeat.
Although optimism is building that we will see an increase in horizontal drilling in 2014 we do not expect the change in horizontal rig count during the fourth quarter.
From that basis we believe margins in the segments with significant U.S.
land exposure could compress a similar magnitude to what we experienced in the third quarter.
The margin decline will most likely be more revenue-driven due to continued pricing pressures and seasonality.
We do not anticipate favorable changes in job mix or service intensity in hydraulic fracturing or any other completion-related service lines.
As a result it is likely that our U.S.
land revenue will fall by more than the 1% decline that we saw in the third quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we are actively reducing our cost in the U.S.
but I expect only moderate benefits to be realized during Q4.
In addition to the anticipated margin compression in the U.S.
you should also consider that well control revenue carried very strong margins so we would anticipate some margin decline in the Subsea and Technology Solutions segment as well.
Finally normal seasonal factors will most likely reduce well intervention and end-of-life service activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the subsea construction in Asia Pacific resulting in lower revenue for our segments with exposure to those services.
That is a qualitative outlook and hopefully you can fill out your models.
But clearly we anticipate that our fourth quarter results will come in below third quarter.
I want to now discuss a couple of other developments that we think have positive longer-term implications.
The first is in hydraulic fracturing specifically an update on the contract status of our pressure pumping fleet.
We anticipate that 3 contracts that were set to expire in early and mid-2014 will be extended until the first quarter of 2015.
We entered 2013 with 12 contracts.
Here is a tally of how those 12 contracts have fared during the course of the year.
4 contracts expired and were not renewed however in one case we continue to work for the same customer on an ad hoc basis and in another case we've extended our remaining contract in that basin.
4 contracts were or will be extended for 6 to 12 months with economics that are the same or slightly below the initial terms.
And 3 have had no changes and one has had a minor change that we continue to work as planned.
As a result we currently stand at 8 contracted fleets with expirations as follows: 2 at the end of the third quarter 2014 2 during the fourth quarter of 2014 and 4 during Q1 of 2015.
Despite the contract rollovers and expirations the repositioning of horsepower the labor inflation that we've experienced job mix fewer 24/7 operations and other market pressures that seem to negatively impact many other fracturing businesses our pressure pumping revenue and margins in 2013 will be at least as good as they were in 2012.
I don't think there are many companies that can make such a claim our team is to be commended for navigating the current environment.
I think this is further proof that our pressure pumping model is differentiated from our peers and we'll further discuss our pressure pumping business at our upcoming Analyst Day on November 11.
The next development is our share repurchase plan.
On October 14 our board authorized a $400 million repurchase plan that is effective until December 31 2015.
We view this as a strategic tool to opportunistically return cash to shareholders.
We will from this point as part of our regular quarterly reporting give you a breakdown of our share repurchase activity in the earnings conference call that follows the quarter.
This program and our free cash flow expectations provide us the flexibility to consider additional means of returning cash to shareholders and we continue to assess these alternatives.
Finally we expect to exit the year with free cash flow of more than $200 million similar to what we projected at the beginning of the year.
I think that concludes our prepared remarks so we'll open up the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So the guide down in the fourth quarter everybody is talking about is going to be weak in the fourth quarter holiday is not as bad as next year.
And you talk about intervention there are several different businesses that are going to get hit.
Can you transition us into the first and second quarter of '14? I know that everybody is being back-end loaded but -- and I'm not looking for earnings guidance but just kind of activity view? Yes.
So -- I mean let me point to you a couple of things.
I mean in the first quarter of 2014 we should begin to realize some of the benefits from some of the cost savings efforts that we're enacting in the field right now.
So that's one thing.
I think there is a general feeling and I certainly have it that there's good reason to believe that we'll see some improvement in horizontal drilling activity in 2014.
And we've heard the drilling contractors announce a lot of very promising new contracts we've heard our customers talk about adding rigs in the Permian Basin and in the Bakken in Southern Oklahoma and some other places.
All that is very encouraging and I think there's still a question mark as to how many of those rigs will be additive to the fleet or will they potentially displace some rigs that are working today.
What I know about this market is that until we begin to see an addition of horizontal drilling rigs to the current rig count we're going to continue to see the kind of pricing pressure and margin squeeze that we've experienced this quarter and will experience in Q4.
We need to have more horizontal rigs working 20% to 25% capacity it needs to be consumed somewhat before we see that turn.
Jim when that happens I think depends a lot on when we actually see the addition of those horizontal rigs to the rig count.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Everybody talks about rig efficiency and how that benefits but your pressure pumping business you're already working a lot of 24 hours.
But now people are starting to talk about completion efficiency and that's a negative for the pressure pumping gas because you're working so hard on getting efficient that you're doing more work more quickly.
Can you talk about what completion efficiency is for you guys? Yes I mean I think this.
We have as we have demonstrated a little bit different kind of fracturing model and it's different because we work for a group of customers that are largely amongst those most efficient operators today.
And so I don't know that during the course of this year or during the course of next year that we would expect any significant changes in efficiency on those completion sites.
So I've been hearing a little bit of that noise I don't know how that's additive or detractive for us what I expect to see out of that business in 2014 is something very similar to what we saw in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question.
What percentage of your U.S.
land business is tied more to rig count than well count? Everything in fracturing is tied to a well count.
Everything else is tied more to a rig count.
Our next question is from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your -- it looks like your Gulf of Mexico growth rates have been kind of chugging along as pretty much expected.
The international growth rate I'm probably mistaken looks a little bit lighter for the year.
I know you've indicated in the past that you're thinking international could grow what something north of 20% maybe as high as 30% as you head out into '14? Can you give us some updates on how you view the international market place heading into '14? Where you think your opportunity set lies? And you've indicated moving some coiled tubing and frac equipment internationally what are your opportunity sets on the frac front? Yes.
So first off just to make sure we're starting at the right place what we've talked about for international growth expectations are 15% to 20%.
And this year international growth rate is really pressured by the decline that we saw in Mexico which you guys know Mexico has not been a focal point for us from an expansion standpoint but we did when we acquired Complete acquire a fairly substantial coiled tubing business that existed there that was influenced by the slowdown in PEMEX work particularly Northern Mexico that began occur in Q2.
So that's been a bit of headwind on our international growth rate.
I do still feel very comfortable that going forward a growth expectation in international of 15% to 20% is something that's very reasonable for us to achieve.
We would like to take advantage of some of the capacity that is available in the U.S.
and transfer it to some of our existing international markets.
There are at least 2 targets in Latin America and one in the Middle East that we've been working on most -- with most effort here recently.
What I'll tell you about it is this whether it's pressure pumping assets or coiled tubing assets we're not going to move them unless we're certain that we're going to be putting them in a country where they're going be able to go into the market and be additive to us from day 1.
And so -- I mean those assets which are stressed and strained from a margin standpoint in the U.S.
I don't need them to be stressed and strained internationally.
So we're going to be selective about where they go and I mean I don't want to create a perception that these are assets that are going to rollout of here next month and be additive for us.
We're going to be selective about it because I want to ensure that we're successful with those assets.
And by the way those managers that are looking at taking some of those assets the same test that we've put on new capital investment is the test that we would on the transfer of the assets and that is that they need to be margin productive for us and we think about EBITDA margins for those types of assets in the 25% to 35% range and they need to be returns additive for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- so it's really good.
The second question I would have for you is where do you guys -- where do you stand right now with the prospect of a dividend? Yes so we've got a board meeting scheduled in December and I think that will be the opportunity for us to have our next conversation with the board about our thoughts on the dividend.
I feel very comfortable and strong about what our free cash generation is likely to be in 2014 and that's assuming still that we've got headwinds in the U.S.
at least in the first part of the year.
So we've taken a very risked approach and looked to what free cash generation will be and I think that it's very clear to me that this company can carry this out.
So that will be the sentiment as the board -- I have socialized this issue with the board for quite some time and I would expect that we have a lengthy conversation on this very topic in December.
And next is Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to push you though on '14 just a little bit.
Detail for us a little more your cost-cutting initiatives and give us some sense at least directionally it seems like we should kind of model in more margin deterioration in the key businesses x subsea into '14 as well.
Is that fair? Well I think that -- so listen we'll be able to talk to you in a lot more detail about the results of the cost-cutting effort when we visit next quarter.
That's one thing.
I mean clearly what we're trying to do is we're trying to build a cost structure that's more reflective of the market environment that we're in today and we see that market environment as being difficult.
Now here we sit in October of 2013 if we believe that this market was going to turn on January 1 I don't think we'd be going through this kind of cost-cutting effort.
Do you see what I'm saying Marshall? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean now you go through this exercise because you're responding to a market condition and not because you're preparing for the next market condition.
So -- I mean I look at it and think we've got to approach our cost structure in the U.S.
in such a way that can be supportive of a successful business in the environment that we're in now which may very well exist in the early part of 2014.
I know there's a lot of optimism building on the horizontal rigs and I want to be optimistic about it too.
The numbers are becoming impressive but I think it's still undecided and undetermined how many of those rigs will actually be additive to the horizontal rig count or are some of them going to displace rigs.
And that causes us to have some concern that is reflective in the cost-cutting efforts that we're going through today and will be reflected in our anticipated capital spend for the U.S.
next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Well that-- I think I've got that.
Totally separate issue on the second one but I know you're pretty plugged in so I'd rather ask you.
The coiled tubing weakness we've seen neighbors write down a bunch of units and a lot of people are talking about weakness in that area.
What's going on there? I mean I would think with all the horizontal activity that would be a fairly healthy business.
Did we overbuild there? Or is it a type of unit that people are acquiring? Or is it just -- just give me some insight what's going on in coiled tubing right now? Yes so I mean I think you got to think about where coiled tubing is mandatory on a horizontal completion and where it is not okay? It's mandatory on high-pressure.
And so when you've got the high-pressure completion the coiled tubing unit is really it is your tool of choice for drilling out plugs and washing out sand.
You don't want to kill the well before you do those operations on high-pressure wells so you do it on a live well operation with coiled tubing.
If you're in a lower pressure well however you have an alternative.
And sometimes coiled tubing may be what you choose is that alternative because it runs in and out of the hole so fast.
But you can also use a service rig and you can a thick pipe to accomplish the same thing and you're doing it at a lower day rate.
So kind of steering back to what does it take for coiled tubing demand to increase again? It takes some more high-pressure drilling it takes more high-pressure completions and those were most dominant in the dry gas areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So a shift back to gas helps that market a bunch.
It helps out a lot.
It helps out a lot.
And so I mean the need the demand for coiled tubing in horizontal completions is there whether you're drilling high-pressure wells or low-pressure wells but it increases dramatically when that overall rig activity and completions activity shifts a bit to high-pressure.
And our next question is from Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you if you could give us an update on your fluid management business both currently and in the areas that you had wanted to grow it? Yes so -- I mean our -- this business has been one that has been under considerable margin pressure both from pricing as well as from inflationary cost primarily related to labor.
And it's -- our business is really made up of 3 primary components: it's hauling the trucking piece of it; it's the storage piece of it which is frac things and other forms of storage; and the disposal piece.
The disposal piece is the one piece that has held up quite well and it's a part of the business that we still see and would like to grow from a strategic standpoint.
But as good as that disposal piece is it's overwhelmed by the deterioration we've seen in margins on trucking and on storage.
There's just a lot more capacity in the market than what the market demands and of course we're seeing a lot of the new demand for water transport being filled with pipes.
And so as water movement increases in the marketplace it's not necessarily absorbing truck capacity.
And so that's a market that there's as well as we talk about in coiled tubing it's overcapacity.
We continue to see pricing pressures there and we're still fighting through these structural headwinds of movement to more fixed transport of water and away from trucks.
Research Division</strong> So okay so is the remedy there a higher horizontal rig count? Or is it a different...
Horizontal rig count helps it absolutely does help.
And I can say that about virtually every one of our service lines.
I mean I think -- you're going to have some of those horizontal rig additions assuming that's what happens that their solution is fixed pipe but there'll be others that are trucks and frac tanks.
So horizontal rig count definitely helps.
Higher water production definitely helps.
Bigger frac volumes helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned in your comments that you'd seen some transition from gel to slick water frac.
I wonder if you can explain that because we did see that at one point when the price of guar had gotten particularly high.
But I sort of believe that that was no longer a reason for moving to slick water.
And how exactly does it affect your margins from pressure pumping? Yes so first off don't read into that any industry shift in gel to slick water or vice versa.
I mean there are certain parts of these resource plays that respond better to a gel frac and certain parts of these resource plays that respond just fine to a slick water frac.
And so those determinations are often made by the operator based on exactly where they're completing at that moment in time.
Don't think about it as being an industry shift.
Gel fracs tend to be jobs that generate a bit higher margin for us overall be it chemicals as well as wear-and-tear on equipment.
And so we prefer the maintenance cost that goes along -- on equipment that goes along with a gel frac versus a slick water frac.
So when we're doing slick water fracs we tend to have -- be changing fluid ends out [ph] a bit more frequently.
And then there's [indiscernible] component as well and so typically on the slick water job we are pumping a bit less sand.
Research Division</strong> Just -- if I may ask one more on the -- everyone seems to kind of have an idea of about 20% overcapacity in pressure pumping and you hear that from various people and it seems like that's kind of your assessment.
So what kind of condition is the 20% that's idle? I mean we have seen I think a cannibalization of idle capacity and could you speak to that issue in terms of both pressure pumping and coiled tubing units that maybe idle or have been idle for some time? Well in pressure pumping I think the condition of that industry I'm not speaking of our capacity but of industry capacity I think in coiled tubing it's okay.
In pressure pumping I'm certain that there are some companies out there that have been cannibalizing assets and I think that there are other companies that have been doing -- spending less overall on maintenance and customers require them to take more pumps out with them.
So that effectively consumes more frac fleets when you got to go do an Eagle Ford frac job with 26 pumps instead of 20 pumps because your maintenance program is not good.
I mean that's what's happening to that overcapacity today and of course the longer a situation goes on where these companies are not generating margins to perform proper maintenance on their equipment the quicker you could get to a point where some of those units are just out of fleet.
Other companies don't see that problem.
If you're spending the proper money on maintenance then your fleet condition is quite good.
We do that and I'm sure some of the other big frac companies do as well.
But I think some of these smaller guys that are operating at very poor margins they probably skipped on maintenance and their fleet capacity is not in the same condition as someone else's.
And next is Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Dave you've talked about in the past the importance of aligning yourself with customers that are increasing their stage count.
What kind of stage count growth are you seeing now? How are you altering your contracts to take advantage of that and within reason can improve stage count growth offset weaker pricing in the business? Yes I mean let me clarify here.
It's not so much about stage count it's being efficient in the ability to deliver stages which -- I mean this is not an easy thing for our customers to deal with.
I mean you think about the logistics as it takes place on these very large horizontal completions and moving water and moving profit and the entire supply chain that goes along with all of that and operators -- the operators that have developed the formulas that allow them to move sand and move water and move all that supply chain rapidly those are the guys that we prefer to work for because they have the ability to do more stages per day.
And more stages per day is a big benefit in the fracturing business.
And so we have -- as you referred to we have tried to align ourselves with customers that are in that position to deliver the maximum numbers of stages per day.
And we think what we deliver is then a frac operation that is additive to that for them.
So Jim did I answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes I think so Dave.
But all of this is a continuing process and as operators stage count increase that you're working for I guess my final question was that can go a long way toward alleviating further pricing pressure? Well it can.
And I think more importantly I'll move away from our specific customers because as I said we -- that's who we tend to work for.
We migrate towards those types of customers.
But as more of those customers develop in the industry and so in total as more of the marketplace is made up of customers that have achieved that type of level of efficiency where they're delivering a lot of stages per day the whole market benefits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just -- and a brief follow-up Dave.
What are you hearing from your counterparts at the E&amp;Ps about the capital spend for 2014? Yes I don't know.
I mean they're -- most of them are in process of kind of putting that together now or will be over the next month or so.
I mean I think in general the -- what I -- the tone that I hear coming out of those companies is pretty positive.
And clearly they've been in a good position from a cash generation standpoint commodity prices have cooperated they have gained more knowledge in the resource plays about some of the big opportunities development opportunities that they have in front of them and that's particularly true I think in the Permian Basin and in Southern Oklahoma.
So I mean the general tone seems pretty good.
I see estimates out there from some of you guys 5% to 10% or is it 8% to 12%? I don't have the reason to doubt any of that.
I mean I think that the question for us becomes put more horizontal rigs to work.
And if their plans require additional rigs then that's what starts to make me feel very good.
And we've only -- we've really only heard a few bits and pieces from the E&amp;Ps about that so far.
And next is John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just really one for me today.
You noted the cost cutting plans but could that extend into a possible divesture in your non-core product lines? Is that on the table going into...
No I said -- I think I've talked about this consistently over time.
We're in a constant state of evaluation of our product line.
And if we find bits and pieces of the product line that we see are not additive for us in the near future and that we're not willing to make internal investments in from a capital standpoint those are the kinds of things we'll look to divest.
And we've done that John.
We've done that.
Research Division</strong> No I know you have.
I just -- I didn't know it's part of the current process that's all.
It's always part of the process.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
On idle horsepower you have there on the frac side at this point are you seeing any customer interest to take those spreads next year? Yes so -- I mean we're always in conversation with the customers our kind of our core customers and the people who are to see if there would be an opportunity to place one of those fleets.
I don't want to -- and so first off those conversations are always going on.
We're always looking for a way to put one of those fleets to work but our standards for putting them to work has been pretty straightforward.
I mean we don't want to put a fleet out there that's going to be dilutive to us from a margin standpoint.
In other words if we're generating and we are generating around 30% margin with the fleets that work out there today I don't want to put another fleet out there and see our margin in that business drop to 27%.
And so you dilute [ph] [indiscernible].
So we're constantly having those conversations.
I think that if we do see additions to the horizontal rig count that people are beginning to get optimistic about for 2014 and the seriousness of those conversations will increase right? And next is Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Brief interlude from the U.S.
land inquisition here.
Looking at your international results in DPS pretty impressive growth.
Just -- can we revisit kind of the characteristics of that revenue stream? When I think of that business in the U.S.
I think about once you get the revenue achieved it's pretty sticky in the multiyear contracts behind it.
I mean is that more or less the case as well internationally? Therefore the base that we see for 3Q is kind of what we'll be building off of here going forward? That's exactly what you can consider.
I mean it does tend to be pretty sticky and that's what we see in the international markets with rental tools and it's part of the reason why I've been really consistent in saying when we get the opportunity grow international with rental tools that's the product line of choice that we prefer to start with.
Because it's very reliable very high margin very high return.
Research Division</strong> Is the duration actually a little longer typically internationally? It varies from market to market.
I mean in certain areas the duration is quite long and Brazil is a good example of that.
We got a landing string contract starting up this quarter in Brazil that's got a 5-year primary term and a potential 5-year extension.
You don't see that kind of opportunity in -- anywhere in the U.S.
and that's pretty long even for the international markets.
I mean more often in the international market it's either going to be tied to a rig and so that rig may be under contract in a particular market for 2 or 3 years may be going under contract for 6 months.
It varies quite a bit.
The NOCs all have a little different style that they put towards the longevity of their contracts.
But there's certainly more contracts internationally than what we see in the U.S.
business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the kind of sequential weakness in the international business within Production Services I guess you characterized that more as a kind of the hangover from Mexico.
Is there anything else to read into it? And then I guess from your commentary you would say that the profitability on a sequential basis was still -- decrease was still mainly relegated to the U.S.
there? That's exactly right.
It was mainly relegated to the U.S.
and internationally I think it was primarily related just to some timing issues on snubbing which our snubbing business tends to move around quite a bit from one country to the next.
And so some quarters they're going to be operating full steam ahead in Thailand and the next quarter they may only work for a month in Thailand.
And so that's part of what provides some of that variability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Dave I don't think you've left a lot of ambiguity about your thoughts here for 4Q.
But I do want to make sure that we're dialing in the right amount of weakness given some of the well control projects that went off in 3Q.
As we think about the Gulf as a whole my math suggests you would be modeling probably at least 10% down top line and maybe closer to 15%? Yes that's probably closer to 10%.
And next is Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
I think we've gone through most of what's important here.
Maybe just some initial qualitative thoughts on the capital spending program for 2014 understanding that you guys haven't gone through the budgeting process.
But am I correct in assuming that in the U.S.
really wouldn't count on much investment from a growth standpoint outside of the drilling rentals business? And I know you referenced it earlier I'm assuming it's kind of the same in terms of international? You are correct about U.S.
I mean we will have a degree of maintenance spend in the U.S.
last year we did this year.
And it's very much in line with some of the comments that I made about maintaining execution operational execution abilities that we have.
We're going to spend money on frac equipment.
We're going to need to put frac equipment out there that is operating as it's supposed to and so that requires a bit of maintenance spend.
But outside of maintenance spend in the U.S.
don't look for much in the way of growth CapEx.
We'll continue to fund those rental tool expansion opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico and in international.
And I'm sure we will have some other production services that require some CapEx on the international side next year as well.
But the fact that I've got some equipment from the U.S.
to transfer may cause it to be a bit less.
So let me get to your question which is about 2014 CapEx.
From where we sit today I don't think that it is higher than what our 2013 level would be.
I have been saying for the last few quarters that -- maybe expect a little bit of growth in overall CapEx this year where we gave a range of $600 million to $700 million a few months ago I may have said think about next year being $650 million to $750 million or something like that.
But where was sit right now I think it's probably more likely to be flat with where we are today and perhaps even down a little bit.
Okay very helpful.
Just a comment.
Having availability of assets from the U.S.
to transfer international and fill some of those expansion needs is very helpful.
Absolutely.
Okay that makes sense.
And Saudi Arabia really hasn't come up on the call.
I know it's still a relatively fledgling business for you but there seems to be a lot of optimism about additions to the rig count here.
Maybe you could share your outlook on how that plays out for you guys in '14? Well we also feel very good about the opportunity in Saudi Arabia.
It's a place that we've been -- we've been talking to Aramco and had a dialogue with them over the last several quarters about a potential service line expansion.
So just to set the stage we have well control pressure control and snubbing services there now and we'd like to add a few product lines to that mix.
And I think Aramco is very interested in having us provide a broader suite our product lines in the country.
So I'm very optimistic about Saudi and in fact we'll be talking about Saudi more in our Analyst Day on November 11 which I just shamelessly plugged again.
And next is Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> What I was wondering Dave can you give us a sense -- if you look at the North American competitive landscape the large integrated service companies are all doing various things to sort of differentiate themselves and/or cut costs at the well site.
How do you compete with that over time? Well I mean I don't think that what they're doing is substantially different from what we're doing.
They look at ways when they're doing through these down markets to restructure their cost and be able to deliver a better competitive position and better margins.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
We didn't put a tagline on ours necessarily and we don't have a big internal program that we're promoting but the efforts I would say are basically the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No -- and your margins have been -- the margins have been good.
I'm just curious as to sort of as things evolve here has there been any change in the approach relative to kind of where we were a year ago? And it doesn't sound like some from your comments there has been.
I think substantially -- I mean our business -- listen all of these companies are a little bit different and some of the -- some of our larger competitors in the U.S.
they've got a very centralized approach to the way that they do things and the way that we manage.
Ours does not.
We're very reliant on strong field management and strong field execution.
So I don't sit back and develop corporate-wide programs for those guys to initiate to be more competitive or to control their costs.
They know how to do it best in their businesses and that's what they're doing right now.
And it's interesting I mean we all saw the market and our margin development occurring during the course of the Q3 in the same way.
I saw it they saw it and they didn't need me to tell them to take action.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question would be when you look at the international growth targets that you sort of targeted at that 15% 20% range coming off of a tougher year could we see a number above that range next year if we get some recovery in Mexico and the other pieces are carrying along as expected? Sure you could.
And I think the way I've talked about that range in the past I feel comfortable in talking about a 15% to 20% annual growth rate.
There may be a year like this one where we struggle to get to 15% because of some headwinds and there'll be some years that we blow past 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you have your Analyst Day soon? Yes.
See you then thanks.
Next is Walther Lovato with Passport Capital.
I had a question on the share repurchase program.
So I assume no shares were purchased in the last -- I guess you're going to give results or share repurchase implementation results at the end of every subsequent quarter is that right? That's correct.
So the share repurchase program was put in place on October 14.
So when we will report on -- that's during the fourth quarter we'll report on our fourth quarter repurchase activity when we give the fourth quarter earnings results and conference call.
Okay.
And can you give us a sense of kind of how you envision I guess deploying this program? Yes I think it's pretty consistent with what I've said about a share repurchase authorization for the last 5 or 6 quarters.
I've been talking about this with shareholders for a long time even though we haven't been doing it.
Because our first priority was to repay debt.
We got that done we got the revolver at 0.
And when the revolver hits 0 is when we put the repurchase authority in place.
But by message on this as far as strategy has been consistent we intend to take advantage of that share repurchase authority at those moments in time when there's a disconnect between the stock price and where we believe the market's going.
And when we see that we want to be opportunistic in the same way that you would be.
But sometimes that happens and for whatever reason investors haven't responded to it.
And that's when I intend to respond.
Okay.
Well again congratulations on implementing the share repurchase I mean with the free cash flow you're generating I think it's great opportunity and tool in your toolbox.
And next is Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave quick point of clarification on the Gulf of Mexico.
I think earlier you'd alluded to the potential to see Gulf of Mexico revenues down 10% sequentially.
You had a big quarter in Subsea Technical Solutions in the GOM was that 10% comment specific to Subsea Technical Solutions or overall GOM off potentially as much of a 10% from Q3 to Q4? It was mostly Subsea Technical Solutions with the Gulf of Mexico revenue within that segment Daniel.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
Good to hear that clarification.
Just to clarify that Daniel we had a pretty significant quarter from a well control standpoint in the third quarter in the Gulf of Mexico.
And you can appreciate that that's not always repeatable sometimes it is but it's difficult to plan.
And a lot of the Gulf seasonality is within that segment that's where a lot of the end-of-life services P&amp;A decommissioning and then the Production Services is where you'd also see it.
But clearly the bigger percentage will be or we expect it to be in the Subsea Technical Solutions.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And then if we look at the international business.
Over the last couple of quarters you've stepped up revenue high-single digits sequentially.
Despite headwinds in Mexico 2 questions.
Is Mexico at a decent baseline at this point? And then with a couple of those Brazil contracts on ramp I mean is there any reason why you -- there's some seasonality in international but is there any reason why high-single digits isn't sustainable a sequential step up into the fourth quarter? The contracts starts late in the quarter.
Yes.
I mean the Brazil start-up contracts were not all on October 1.
So I mean we do see the start up during the course of the quarter but we don't have the benefit for the entire quarter.
And to your Mexico question Daniel it's a great question.
I mean we heard all kinds of different things out of Mexico and I've not been one to be terribly enthusiastic about a step up that PEMEX is going to have that gets us off a bottom.
It kind of feels at the moment like we're on bottom but I don't want to build a huge amount of optimism out there on something that could potentially change in Mexico [ph] first half of 2014.
Are we on bottom? Man I think we are.
But we've seen PEMEX do some unusual things that we didn't expect before.
That was a really vague answer wasn't it? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well it's Mexico.
It's honest.
I don't know what else to say it's honest.
Next is Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions directed at cash flow please.
First on '13.
Did I hear you say you think you're going to be at $200 million in free cash flow for the year? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Is my math right that in the first half of the year it was breakeven? Because that's what I -- as we've gone through the Qs and stuff? So I just want to make sure I'm comparing sort of the same numbers because I don't have as much free cash in my model? That doesn't sound right.
Yes most of it was generated in the third quarter.
Yes.
The biggest quarter for us was the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And obviously another big quarter expected at Q4? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The second question similar I suppose in that it's free cash related.
But as you're thinking about a dividend and as you're presumably presenting this to your board and then I can only imagine that the question of sort of normalized earnings and normalized free cash has to be established at some level of confidence.
So obviously normalized earnings is hard to assess but maybe normalized CapEx isn't or it's easier.
So we're obviously looking at $600 million-ish maybe for couple of years now.
You say there's a maintenance CapEx provided but presumably you need to replace earnings power over that normalized period right? So you have to replace all the pumping equipment as it dies and all the other stuff.
What -- if you'll sort of humor me what is a normalized capital expenditure? I mean is it more like $1 billion to sustain earnings power? Because you have a -- there's a set of olding -- of aging equipment here? Is that -- not to mention what you're going to wind up building in drill pipe and the like? I mean is it a pretty big number is I supposed what I'm getting to get at.
No.
It's not nearly as big as the way you characterize that.
We see earnings maintenance CapEx in this company as being somewhere closer to $300 million than $1 billion.
Research Division</strong> That's not just keeping so it's replacing as well? I understand you've been careful in the word choice but that's replacing capital too? That's absolutely right.
I'll give you an example of that.
I mean we spent this year -- we characterize it as maintenance capital it's earnings and revenue maintenance is what we're -- I know that's an unusual term that certain regulatory agencies hate to hear used.
But think about it we think about maintenance capital as being capital that's required in order to maintain the revenue and earnings level that we have today.
And so as an example we spent I don't know somewhere in the order of $30 million or $40 million in our fracturing business this year.
And we are making the capital investments in order to maintain the earnings power that we have in the fracturing business.
And that's included in the assessment that we make of somewhere in the neighborhood of $300 million a year as been the maintenance requirement of this company so you'll know.
And our final question comes from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
Dave I know you guys are kind of more levered to the Gulf of Mexico but in thinking about the U.S.
onshore rental drill pipe market it seems like there's industry-wide too much pipe on the ground given that the stagnant U.S.
horizontal rig count.
To the extent that we see some of these newbuild rigs displace current rigs such that the overall horizontal rig count stays flattish are there opportunities for you guys to potentially redeploy some of that premium drill pipe for land-based applications internationally given your infrastructure? Or do you just sort of wait it out? There are absolutely opportunities to transfer.
And yes that's something we can do today.
And by the way I mean that pipe didn't have to go to a land opportunity it could to an offshore opportunity as well.
I mean a lot of the pipe that has been brought into the U.S.
is 3.5-inch XT and more commonly that's going to be used on a U.S.
horizontal well.
But there are other places that the pipe gets used.
And I think one of the things that we've done very well in that business and demonstrated this exceptionally well during the Macondo-induced moratorium in 2010 and 2011 is the ability to transfer assets to markets where we can make money.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing comments.
Well thanks to all of you for joining us today.
And we hope to see you on November 11 at our Investor Day.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.