Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today February 26 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management will make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We reported quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion and EBITDA of $225 million and non-GAAP adjusted net income of $48.3 million or $0.30 per diluted share in our earnings release yesterday afternoon.
When normalizing our results by adding back the charges outlined in the earnings release our operating performance in the fourth quarter was near our expectations despite weather disruptions in the US.
On our last call we noted that revenue and margins in U.S.
land completion and production services would continue to come under pressure at a pace similar to the third quarter due to pricing job mix and seasonal factors.
Those drivers played a role in the 6% decline we experienced in U.S.
land revenue and the margin compression in segments with a service exposure.
Although we certainly expected weather to be an issue during the fourth quarter the impact of unusually bad weather in November and December was more than we anticipated.
Pressure pumping and well service rigs in North Dakota Mid-Continent and Permian Basin were all impacted at some point during the quarter resulting in lower utilization and lower margin.
There were four areas that helped us offset the weather impact.
We saw some strengthening in the fluids management business primarily in the Rocky’s where we have a very strong market share position and saw a nice increase in utilization.
In addition the fluids management business benefited from high demand for heating fluids as a result of colder than normal weather.
The Gulf of Mexico market continues to be stellar for our drilling products and services.
We had an 18% increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter in this segment.
In addition we had a 33% increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 in this segment.
And finally we had a 30% Gulf of Mexico revenue increase in overall 2013 versus 2012 in this segment.
This lead to expansion of both gross profit and operating margins and in fact the gross profit margin of 68% was the highest in the Post-Macondo era.
You have to go back to the fourth quarter of 2008 to find higher margin for this segment.
Another bright spot in the quarter was in Production Services segment were international revenue growth of 6% was experienced over the third quarter.
One of the highlights there is the pressure pumping contract that started in Brazil.
And finally the third quarter was a good quarter for well control work but the fourth quarter was even better as we participated in several significant well control jobs in Latin America and in Asia.
I think that this fourth quarter is as good demonstration of how diversity works to our favor.
International and Gulf of Mexico exposure helped to overcome a short fall in earnings from North America.
Now let me comment on some of the charges incurred and decisions made around certain strategies that the company has pursued for the past several years.
The charges were driven by underperformance in services and strategies within the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment.
Many of you are aware of our efforts to enter the subsea well interventions markets four years ago.
Our thesis then was that we could utilize subsea operating vessels to deliver to customers a complete solution of subsea well interventions services with access through our pressure control expertise.
While we have successfully completed several plug and abandonment projects using the package of vessels lubricators and Wireline services market adoption of Rigless Well Intervention solutions has been slow in the Post-Macondo operating environment.
As a result we are seeking strategic alternatives for our subsea construction business based in the Asia-Pacific market.
I also want to address the ten set charge for the ongoing decommissioning projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
For several years we produced good results in the conventional Gulf of Mexico platform decommissioning market.
Our Wild Well Control team was one of the first groups to respond to hurricane recovery efforts in the Gulf which included many conventional and unconventional decommissioning projects.
We take great pride in having successfully and safely completed projects of all sizes and complexities over the past decade.
However based on market condition we have not produced positive results in the conventional decommissioning business in recent years.
As a result we will no longer take on conventional decommissioning projects in the Gulf including large scale turnkey projects that have been part of these operations.
As part of this exist we will divest our derrick barge.
We will continue to execute unconventional decommissioning projects for our Gulf of Mexico client if and when those opportunities arise.
The charges we incurred during the fourth quarter do not adversely impact our earnings power going forward.
I think that the results of these actions will help sharpen our core product line focus back to completion intervention and rental tool product line and eliminate unexpected earnings headwinds that have been caused by these strategies in recent year.
Last quarter I told you that we would be initiating a cost reduction and restructuring effort during the fourth quarter.
Let me give you an update on that effort.
Some of our completion and production services including fluid management and coiled tubing were most impacted by margin compression that we experienced during the year.
During the fourth quarter we took actions to close some marginal operating locations and reduce headcount in these businesses.
We expect that the actions that we have taken for which we incurred about $5.2 million in cost during the fourth quarter will save us in the range of $20 million to $30 million per year.
The full benefit of the savings will become apparent in our second quarter results.
In the meantime we continue to look for cost efficiencies in these businesses.
Before I turn the call over to Robert Taylor let me talk about 2013 in summary.
From an earnings standpoint 2013 did not meet our expectations.
However we did accomplish several of the goals we laid-out at the beginning of the year.
We generated free cash flow well in excess of $225 million.
We paid down the remainder of the $300 million in 6.875 senior notes.
We implemented a share repurchase plan purchasing $427 000 shares during the fourth quarter of 2013.
We announced the initiation of a quarterly dividend of $0.8 making the first payment on that last week.
Our overall Gulf of Mexico business grew 26% as we continue to leverage our strong deepwater drilling products and services franchise.
Excluding Mexico our international revenue grew 12% as we successfully completed our first full year in Argentina and Saudi Arabia.
Kicked off long-term projects in Brazil and further expanded our drilling products and services in Africa.
And we have initial steps to reduce cost in the U.S.
and better position the company to take advantage of what appears to be a U.S.
market poised to grow.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our 2014 outlook along with our 2014 capital expenditures plan.
And with that I now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I’ll make comparisons to third quarter 2013.
I will also refer to adjusted operating income which excludes the specific charges reported in each segment.
In the Drilling Products and Service segment revenue was $224 million and adjusted income from operations was $69 million which represents a 4% sequential increase in revenue and an 11% sequential increase in operating income.
As Dave highlighted earlier this segment continues to be the shining star in terms of consistent revenue growth and margin expansion.
The 18% Gulf of Mexico increase was driven by increases in premium drill pipes and specialty rental especially in the deepwater.
International revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate during each of the first three quarters in 2013.
Although international revenue was flat this quarter it was up 34% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
In fact on an annual basis international revenue in this segment increased 23%.
U.S.
land revenue was down 8% to $67 million as a result of lower demand for premium drill pipes and downhaul tool rentals due to an Eagle Ford customer letting go rigs towards year-end.
We also mentioned that deepwater Gulf of Mexico rentals market generates our highest margin and as you can see the impact that the Gulf revenue growth had on this quarter’s gross profit margin.
In the Onshore Completions and Workover Services segment revenue was down 6% at $375 million and adjusted income from operation was 57% lower down to $14 million.
Declines in pressure pumping and well service rigs more than offset the increase in fluids management revenue.
Margins were impacted by the reduced activity level lower pricing and higher weather related cost in pressure pumping.
Production services segment revenue was down 3% to $349 million while adjusted operating income decreased 74% to $4 million.
International revenue was 6% higher at $87 million due to an increase in snubbing activity in Saudi Arabia and pressure pumping in Brazil.
These were partially offset by lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 5% to $240 million primarily due to decreases in coiled tubing and remedial pumping.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 9% to $48 million as activity in wireline and pressure control tube was lower while coiled tubing was slightly higher.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $181 million which represents a 16% decrease from the third quarter.
This segments adjusted income from operations was $3 million which represents a 76% decrease.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 12% to $99 million primarily due to a decrease in well control work and completion tools and services.
International revenue was 21% lower to $65 million in revenue with lower subsea construction activity in Asia-Pacific more than offsetting increases in well control work and completion tools and services.
U.S.
land revenue declined 23% to $17 million.
Turning to the balance sheet at the end of the year our debt was $1.7 billion which was about $117 million lower than this time last year.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5 times and debt-to-total capital was 29%.
For the year the company generated nearly $284 million of free cash flow.
As Dave mentioned we’ve repurchased and retired 427 000 shares at a total cost of $10.6 million.
Capital additions in the fourth quarter were about $174 million and full year 2013 capital additions were $620 million.
From a modeling perspective in the first quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $155 million to $158 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $162 million to $164 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Weighted average share count should approximately $162 million for the quarter.
As a result of certain credits in year-end adjustments our 2013 effective income tax rate excluding the reduction and value of assets was 33.7% versus 35% at the end of the third quarter resulting in a cumulative catch-up in the fourth quarter of about $4 million.
We expect our effective income tax to be 37% in the year 2014.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
Let me take a few minutes to walk you through some of our assumptions about how 2014 should progress.
In the U.S.
market we are clearly optimistic about the recent increase in horizontal rig count and the expectation that horizontal rigs will continue to increase during the course of the year.
We believe that the addition of these rigs most of which we think are destined for the Permian Basin will drive higher utilization in our underutilized completion and production businesses.
However it is also important to note that seasonally Q1 is seldom a strong quarter for us and this year is no exception.
So let’s talk about how we progress from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014.
Using the non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.30 for the fourth quarter of 2013 as the base you should consider included in that number is about $2.5 of tax benefit and another $0.03 of likely non-recurring well control work.
In a normal first quarter seasonal factors and preparation time on the part of our customers generally drive activity lower in the Gulf of Mexico the U.S.
land market and in certain international markets.
This first quarter has been anything but normal as extreme weather in January and early February have made it difficult to gain any traction in the U.S.
especially in the Bakken.
We lost eight days to weather in North Dakota so far which has impacted many services especially pressure pumping.
In addition to pressure pumping fleet downtime we’ve incurred higher fuel costs as we’ve kept trucks running on location to avoid pumps and equipment from freezing up.
In the Gulf of Mexico our stimulation vessel has been out of service for the first quarter as we refurbished the stimulation plant.
In addition weather fronts have resulted in rough seas making it more difficult than usual to mobilize equipment spreads for well maintenance projects in the shallow water.
Finally our fracturing business has experienced some dynamics which ultimately bode very well for us.
We have eight fleets that are currently contracted on terms that were finalize during Q3 and Q4.
These contracted fleets represent about 60% of our fracturing revenue and we are comfortable that the terms agreed to in these contracts will generate mid-20s EBITDA margins.
We now have four frac fleets working on an exclusive basis for a relatively new customer in Texas primarily the Permian Basin.
Included in those four fleets is one fleet that was recently activated from our ideal capacity.
All four of these fleets are working today but we don’t expect to get up to the full utilization with all four fleets until the second quarter.
I think that the end results is that factoring margins which were low in Q4 stayed at similar level during Q1 and then begin to increase in Q2 with higher utilization.
We think that without the utilization headwinds caused by unusually severe winter weather and an expanded frac fleet working at a higher efficiency that the second quarter is where you will witness earnings inflection and we think that our Q2 earnings in 2014 will be similar to Q2 earnings in 2013 albeit with a slightly different makeup.
North America margins are lower than last year but are offset by contributions from international and drilling products and services.
This leads us with continued operating leverage in the U.S.
if we see the horizontal rig continue to expand during 2014.
We still have underutilized capacity in the U.S.
including now three ideal frac fleets.
In summary Q1 2014 earnings should be lower than Q4 2013 non-GAAP earnings and Q2 2014 could be that inflection point that will get us back to second quarter 2013 earnings albeit with a slightly different composition than we had last year.
And I’ve spend a lot of time here trying to walk you through our thoughts on U.S.
completions and production business let me spend a few minutes on other expectations for 2014.
We are very pleased with the progress that we’ve made in our growth capital investment in international rental tools and production services.
We will continue to focus our growth capital to these businesses in 2014 with an overall capital spend plan of $600 million to $650 million and around $300 million of that dedicated to continued rental tool and international growth.
Our maintenance capital spend will be about 50% of the overall CapEx budget with an increase in maintenance capital to hydraulic fracturing.
As we keep our working fleet in perfect order to continue to drive our operational excellence in the field.
We will continue to keep a close watch on free cash generation during 2014 which we expect will once again exceed $200 million providing the cash sources for continued dividends and share repurchases.
And that concludes our prepared remarks so I think what we’ll do is now turn the line over to questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning Dave.
Just following up on your commentary on the 2014 outlook what’s your view of overall U.S.
spending for 2014? Are we thinking out 5% 10% 15% can you give us your best guess on I know it’s just going to be a guess as to what you think we flush out through the course of the year? I think it’s in the neighborhood of 5% to 6%.
I mean lately there have been some talk about an upward bias to that.
I don’t know Marshall but 5% to 6% seems right.
And I think it fits with what we see and what we believe happens in the way of overall horizontal rig addition.
And overall horizontal rig addition we see going up somewhere in the 70% to 80% something like that that kind of ties back to a 5% to 6% increase in spend.
Inc.</strong> Is that enough to get those three ideal fleets and maybe a few coiled tubing rigs back to work by the second half? I don’t know.
I mean we feel real good about getting one ideal fleet to the market early in the year.
We continue to have conversations with customers.
I think it’s probably a bit much to ask for all three of those fleets to be out into the marketplace before the end of 2014.
But yeah we will certainly work to that end.
I do think that what that 5% to 6% increase in spend is that list everything as utilization throughout the supply chain goes out.
So that’s in coiled tubing and fluid management service rigs and everything we do in the completion supply chain.
So of all that points in a very solid direction and those three fleets will continue to be a focus for us as we’re trying to find the right customers to work for that are going to deliver the margin in that frac business that we expect.
Inc.</strong> All right last one from me.
Gulf of Mexico you rocked it last year up 30% plus or minus in international.
I think maybe a little less than we thought a year ago maybe up 10% plus or minus.
What is our outlook for 2014 in both of those? Are we looking at Gulf of Mexico up 10% 20% 30% in likewise international versus 10% growth we saw in 2013? Yes 30% growth in the Gulf of Mexico I don’t believe is repeatable.
Remember we still had in 2013 the first half of the year some pretty favorable comps to first half of 2012 which was impacted by Macondo.
But I think as you think about – as we think about Gulf of Mexico growth year-over-year thinking somewhere in the range of 10% maybe low teens in overall growth.
A balance between deepwater and shelf is probably about right.
On the international front we do believe and I’ve been open in stating that we should be a company that can target in that range of 15% and some years up to 20% international growth.
I think this year we go into the year thinking 15% is the right amount and maybe once we contract we get some upside to that.
Inc.</strong> Outstanding.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeff Spittel of Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead Thanks good morning Dave good morning fellas.
Hi Jeff.
Maybe Dave just some clarification on that decommissioning project I am assuming it was a turnkey project and there is not going to be a subsequent opportunity for cost recovery if that’s the case.
I am also assuming that with the charge that you recorded this quarter the project is sufficiently complete or close enough or you feel like there is not going to be any additional cost or ring fence whatever the cost escalation was? Is that correct?  Well that is correct.
I mean what we’ve done is we’ve ring fenced the cost escalation.
It is a turnkey project that will complete about midyear 2014 and we think what we’ve done now the project accounting so when you recognize you get a higher cost you got to take them and that’s done in this case.
Okay.
And then I guess with regard to natural gas with the spike I am sure you knew this question was coming but how does that play into the outlook and are you seeing any green suits or at least in your conversions with customers a little bit more optimism about activity in some of the dry gas basins? I guess a bit premature for that.
I think with the exception of Chesapeake we really haven’t seen other operators that have talked about moving any of their spend into dry gas areas.
And my personal thought on this is 2014 is going to continue to be a year were our customers are focused in the oil basins and I don’t believe that we are going to see what is part of current E&amp;P budgets redirected to dry gas.
Sure that makes sense.
Okay thanks Dave I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
And next is Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Can you give us the impact of the businesses that you’re getting out of in Q4 in 2013 revenue margin? Yes.
I mean the revenue from those businesses makes up roughly 40% of the overall revenue in the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment.
Okay very good.
And negative margin contribution? There has certainly not been additive force in recent years and we’ve talked about several of these strategies over the past few years and generally what we see from these businesses is that they have not been additive to us from a margin standpoint.
I think they have some quarters where they have positive force and other quarters where there have been negative force.
But I think overall when we think about it over the time span that we’ve run the strategies they’ve been relatively neutral.
Okay.
I’ll go with neutral.
And then in terms of – so that’s the Subsea and Technical Solutions.
So how about in Venezuela can you quantify the impact in the business on a go forward basis or I am sorry how much it was in 2013? Yes.
I mean we have not done any work in Venezuela since about August.
We have intermittently worked in Venezuela over the last five years.
I think that we’ve had the only snubbing capability in the country and the way that that has operated over time is that we go work for four or five months and build up to a point where we had a receivable that was approaching $10 million and we shut it down.
So we got paid.
And until this past August that didn’t work for us.
We will be shutting down for two months and then [indiscernible] some would go back to work.
In August we shut down because we haven’t been paid for a while and they have responded by seizing assets from us in November.
So I guess what I’d say about the contribution from Venezuela is it’s been insignificant over the past several years and by insignificant I mean revenue levels that are $6 million $7 million and clearly that is not a big driver for margin force.
But have been positive in margins but this is not material.
Okay.
So it’s not a big – there is not a big cost sync either though.
It’s just kind of – it’s a very small item either way.
Okay all right very good.
I appreciate that.
Small item and I think as much as anything we’ve reached a point in Venezuela where we were concerned about being able to provide security for our people and as much as we would like to stay in any market particularly one that is lucrative as Venezuela with the overall hydrocarbon resource that they have.
If we can’t be certain in the security of our people then we need to go do something else.
Fair enough.
Okay.
Maybe an unrelated follow-up if I may.
With respect to the Permian and obviously a hot topic because that’s where a lot of the horizontal activity is going what are you doing perhaps in terms of asset positioning? Are you moving resources into the Permian expanding operations there to catch the incremental work? I’d say we have had – I mentioned that we activated one of the ideal frac fleets.
Fair.
I think that it was only significant asset movement that we’ve had in the Permian Basin over the last six months and we did start moving fracturing assets there in 2011.
We’ve got a good coiled tubing position there and all of our product lines really are represented well in the Permian.
We’ve got to my knowledge the infrastructure – there is one facility to my knowledge.
There is one facility that is under construction in Odessa to accommodate the more service intensive operation.
But overall we’re pretty well set up there.
Okay.
I mean for example there is your fluid hauling business is there incremental opportunity there for example and I imagine there’s a lot of trucks already but is there some potential to move assets there to capture again incremental hauling work? There is.
The Permian Basin for us in the fluid management business is not one of our highest market positions and so I mean I think that does create an opportunity for us.
If we see that we’re able to going there with assets that we’re going to be able to work at reasonable price.
Sure.
And I don’t know that we’ve witnessed to this point that kind of increase in market pricing that would cause us to transfer additional fluid management assets herein today but that could change during 2014.
I understand.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciated it.
Turn it back.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Blake.
Just starting with kind of your charge for the cost savings initiatives and restructuring initiatives it’s a good ratio here given the size of your U.S.
franchise maybe not enormously impactful but I get the feeling from your commentary that you see an infection point in 2Q that this will be most of what you see and maybe have a plan drawn-up for a market that’s a little bit tougher but that’s not necessarily you’re going to something you’re going to put in action we probably won’t see much more called out from here? I don’t know that you’ll see much called out.
I certainly felt indeed in the third quarter to call out that there were some things that we needed to do from a cost efficiency standpoint.
A lot of companies began restructuring and cost cutting efforts back in 2012.
And we weren’t one of those.
We saw in general our margins which dropped during the second half of 2012.
Hope fairly steady in the first half of 2013 and that really prevented us I guess from stepping forward with any real strong cost reduction efforts.
When the margin declined in Q3 that was called the action force.
And we’ve been extremely focused now in ensuring that what we have is a cost structure that’s right sized for the current market environment but doesn’t hinder our ability to respond if we see incrementally better activity which we think will happen in 2014.
Great and then a question just around the Gulf of Mexico performance in DPS this quarter who typically think of that revenue stream is been fairly sticky even when you have a big step up like that.
I mean is that reflective of kind of the run rate of the business heading into the New Year in the Gulf of Mexico in DPS? It’s true what you say drilling products and services revenue is as sticky as it gets in this company.
Okay and I guess is a follow on to that and I’ll turn it back.
What does the deepwater portion of that business and deepwater portion of your international exposure tell you about the state of the offshore market right now as the contract drillers kind of suffer from some of these fits and starts of and threats of slower spending environment? Yes I don’t know that.
We certainly have a different view.
We certainly don’t have the same challenge that the drilling contractors have in the deepwater relative to new generation equipment versus old generation equipment I guess.
What we believed about the deepwater Gulf of Mexico for sometime is that we would see a net increase in 2014 kind of three to four rigs and that’s still what we think is the case.
We will have some rigs that come in that are new generation rigs and some rigs that go out that maybe older generation rigs.
And I guess that we happened to be one of the owners of those old generation rigs we’re not real happy about it but we are indifferent.
Our rental opportunities are similar on either form of rig.
Great thanks for the help.
I’ll turn it back.
You bet.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
L.L.C.</strong>  Good morning guys.
Hi Daniel.
L.L.C.</strong>  Dave I think you mentioned the derrick barge in the Gulf of Mexico is an asset you would look to maybe divest.
There are fixed assets associated with Gulf of Mexico decom and then could you describe the owned asset base you possess in South East Asia? So I mean the largest individual asset contained within that decommissioning business in the Gulf of Mexico is the derrick barge.
I mean there are clearly other assets in that business but that’s the single largest.
And I am sorry your question about owned asset base in Asia-Pacific? L.L.C.</strong> Yes.
Could you be specific? L.L.C.</strong> Yes.
What’s the vessel list like out there at this point? Yes for us we owned a total of four vessels.
Yes.
Four vessels and I think there is another one or two chartered or leased.
And then there is sat diving systems and RV’s others assets associated with the business.
L.L.C.</strong> And do you still have any funding commitments left outstanding related to the CSS or what’s the status of that asset? It’s still in the shipyard and we do have a final payment that will be made during 2014 on construction of that vessel.
I think Daniel it’s in the range of $25 million or $30 million.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And the owned total of four vessels that would exclude the CSS or the CSS was in that count? That excludes it.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
It has hadn’t been in the market yet.
So we hadn’t included as part of working vessel count.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay helpful.
And then just switching gears to the pressure pumping side you talked about still having the three fleets ideal and adding some fleets to the new customer in the Permian.
Just one other part of that how many spot fleets do you have out there presently then? Yes.
So in the Permian I mean the Permian fleets today are either contracted or they are working on an exclusive basis.
And I am sorry we may use terminology that is different than some other people.
When we talk about a contracted fleet it’s something that does have what is a minimum 12 month obligation.
When I talk about an exclusive fleet that means it’s not in the spot market it’s essentially committed to a customer working on that exclusive basis.
In the Permian we don’t have any of those fleets that are working in the day to day spot market.
They are either exclusive/committed fleets or contracted fleets.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then I guess though just to close it out ex-Permian just across the U.S.
portfolio what do you consider spot or exclusive what’s that count? Yes I mean so eight contracted fleets about four fleets that would be kind of have spot market exposure I guess.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
All right guys thanks very much.
You bet.
And then Marshall Adkins please go ahead with your follow-up question.
Inc.</strong>  Sorry to keep bugging at the slow morning.
The proceeds from sales on this stuff what are you going to do with the cash? Well you know that the free cash that we produce in this company what we said about that to this point is that we wanted to use that free cash to fund share repurchases and dividend.
In other words get it back to shareholders.
I don’t know when Marshall the proceeds for many divestiture would come through and I think rather than commit to what the purpose would be I’d rather wait and see what the timing looks like.
I mean if it was a divestiture that was happening in this week I think what I’d be telling is it’s going to be money that we’re going to put towards share repurchase and dividend.
Inc.</strong>  That makes sense.
That was going to be my second question.
But any guess as the timing I mean are we talking end of 2014 middle of 2014 2015 when timing on getting all this stuff done any estimate? I can’t be specific about that not because I am avoiding your question but because I don’t know.
Our intention would be to carry this out during 2014 and obviously the sooner the better.
But there is a process that we’ll be going through that our public disclosure of intentions with the subsea construction business in Asia are being made known today.
So we’ll need a little bit of time to get those assets in market.
Inc.</strong>  Sure all right last one.
Obviously we were all excited to see the dividend and the share repurchase announcement seems a little light on the amount repurchased for the quarter anything particularly gets you more aggressive at repurchasing more? Yes so what I have consistently said about the share repurchases is that for now our tactics are to be in the market buying shares when there seems to be some disconnect in where our stock price is and where we believe it should be maybe it drops by.
For some unknown reason those market gremlins come into effect and if you are not buying it we will.
Inc.</strong>  Perfect.
And I don’t think that tactic is changed for us.
I’ll say this.
We have to adhere to certain rules in the repurchase so that limits are daily volume.
It also means that we’ve got to get out of the market when we’ve got information which the market doesn’t have.
And so clearly during the course of the quarter as you can realize from some of these announcements about ending of strategies and potential divestures we had some information you didn’t know about.
Inc.</strong>  Right but it certainly from my modeling I think we’re closely right you’re still going to have plenty of cash to do this and other things correct? Yes sure.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks Dave.
Thank you.
Your next is Jonathan Sisto with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentleman.
Good morning Jonathan.
David maybe you could bring us up to speed on the latest in Mexico what you’re kind of seeing and hearing down there in so much as the Mexican reform?  I don’t think that what we are seeing today are our thoughts on Mexico.
They’ve really changed very much recently Jonathan.
I mean we do not believe that although I’ll say we are encouraged as many in industry are about the recent legislative reform in Mexico and excited about the potential for new customers in entering into the Mexico market.
And I think 2014 is going to be the year where the rules for that participation by foreign operators are defined.
And based on the way those rules are written then we’ll begin to understand who the likely investors are.
So that been said we don’t think reform has anything positive to do with activity in 2014.
In fact my personal thought would be if anything is probably going to slow the Mexican government down and funding additional PMEX [ph] work in Mexico during 2014.
So 2014 doesn’t look real good and we’ll see how the wills get written and what I’ve always said about Mexico is that our excitement about the market potential there is going to depend very much on who the future customer is.
And just as a kind of follow-up you mentioned to one of Marshall’s earlier questions kind of 15% topline growth in the international market.
Have you been able to bring over more capacity into areas like Saudi to complement your snubbing units there? Yes so we have I guess three different service lines in total there in Saudi now snubbing as well as well control which was actually the first and then some pressure control services that are associated with the well control business.
We’ve not added to that at this point but there are some pretty active conversations going on within our ramp cut there about potential expansion with the new product launch.
Okay.
I would certainly hope that during 2014 an additional product line going to the country.
Okay.
And just as kind of a homework one here the stacked stimulation vessel is that just in for coast guard recertification and when does that come out? Yeah sorry it’s not stacked it’s been – we’re doing a rebuild on the stimulation plan.
So this is leased vessel they’re just pretty common in the Gulf of Mexico on stem boats.
And we’ve got a stimulation plant that’s built on to the deck of his vessel.
So we’re refurbishing blenders and pumps.
If I said stack that certainly didn’t mean that it’s not stacked it’s just in the shipyard going through that stimulation plant refurbishment during this quarter.
It’s in the quarter to do it because what happens in the first quarter with the weather issues that you have you wind up getting ready for a big completion job and then sitting at the dock wait for to load out while the weather is forced.
So we felt like this was a good period to get that work done.
Okay.
So that will also help with the inflection point into Q2? Exactly.
Okay.
That’s all from me thanks David.
Thank you.
Next is Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just following up on that last question there actually we’ve heard some competitors here looking to move on assets international market.
Has it become anymore challenging to find opportunities to place equipments staying with your return benchmarks or is there enough opportunity to accommodate all these moves? I think there is still plenty opportunity.
I think you know one of the things that we have tried to do is to continue to exercise discipline as we move assets.
Out there somehow I’ll give you an example.
We’ve got today probably 20 coiled tubing units in the U.S.
that I’d be happy to send to international markets tomorrow.
If those international markets were in demand of 24 coiled tubing units tomorrow then somebody would already send them there.
And so what I don’t want to do is just pour assets into international markets because they happened to be underutilized in the US.
More of what I think about is I think about those 20 coiled tubing units sitting there and waiting for the right opportunity to develop internationally and then we deployed.
And that then becomes consistent with our thought about only deploying that equipment if we see then it’s a solid return opportunity for us.
Does that make sense?  It does yes.
And then turning to Brazil do you see any impacts from the contracts running up in Q4? Should we expect to see the full benefit from that early in 2014? What’s kind of your outlook for that market? For what we do in Brazil and the contracts that we have in Brazil we feel pretty good going forward in 2014.
And I know that there is other companies that have contracts which have a different level of exposure perhaps.
But we had two contracts that started up in the fourth quarter one in drilling products and services and one in production services.
The drilling products and services contract is up to full speed and that’s a four or five year contract.
The production services contract is related to stimulation.
There is actually room to expand on that contract and that we had three fleets that we are scaling up during the fourth quarter probably see a little bit better utilization during the first half of 2014 and there is room in the contract for two additional fleets that could come in at some point in the future.
So I look at what we have and see that there is probably more ability to scale up and then to scale down.
Okay that’s helpful.
And the last one from me any update on your automated service rig roll out and do you guys dedicate any growth CapEx in your 2014 budget for that?  Yes there are two or three more units that are planned during 2014.
We’ve got the two rigs now which have been in the market and seem to be working well with a great comment back from customers.
We’ve been trying to move them around a bit from one customer to the next to give operators a variety of operators the opportunity to experience this new technology.
We are excited about it.
We think it’s a really outstanding addition in technology to our service rig fleet.
But you know if ultimately this became 10 or 15 or 20 rigs that’s probably the limit on it.
It’s not like those are going to replace all 300 service rigs that we have out there but the uptake has been good and we do have some additional capital budget in 2014 devoted to continuation of the catch rig.
Okay thanks for the help.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
And next is James Schumm with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi Dave now we’ve been hearing some anecdotes in the pressure pumping market that maybe pricing is stabilized and utilization maybe improving.
I wanted to get you thoughts on the coiled tubing and service rig markets.
Have you seen any improvement recently in these markets? I would more describe coiled tubing as stabilizing and that’s not stabilizing at a very high point but I don’t think that we’ve seen any tremendous or a lot of downward pull from either a utilization or pricing standpoint of that business.
We’ve got some areas that we think can improve for us in the near-term but probably not as a result of pricing more as a result of utilization.
Service rig utilization has been good.
We didn’t see a lot of price movement in the service rig.
We saw more of a mixed change in service rigs as we went away from a majority of completion work to a majority of production work.
And I think what mostly likely to happen with service rigs is that we see a bit more of a mix on the completion side going forward that helps us in utilization.
And it also pulls through some other associated sales and help the margins in that business.
Okay and then just a point of clarification.
So in the Gulf of Mexico the specialized decommissioning market you’re going to remain involved there.
What percent of the work there is turnkey? Yes.
It’s been primarily a turnkey market in the recent years and I want to be clear about this.
What we said is that we will continue to have resources in the way of specialized personnel in this company that if there were an unconventional structural decommissioning job and when I say unconventional I mean big platforms and live well bores that are laying on the sea floor.
We will still have the expertise to respond to that type of opportunity.
Okay and that is – they’re pretty much all turnkey projects? Recently they have been.
I mean there was a point in time where there was a pretty strong mix of day rate versus turnkey work in that business and as part of what’s happening in the market was competition operators will prefer to do that on turnkey basis.
The challenge is that whenever you are dealing with the removal of an old asset misuse the plug and abandonment and all I mean it’s very difficult to predict the potential problems you may encounter.
And so it’s always a risk in a turnkey type of opportunity because there are other things that you didn’t expect to see and that result in higher cost.
Okay all right great.
Thanks guys.
Welcome.
(Operator Instructions) Next is Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks good morning gentleman.
Hi Stephen.
sorry I jumped on late.
You may have answered this but I’m going to ask you the assets which you are seeking strategic alternatives for and you talked about in the press release that you don’t see any impact on continuing income from operations.
Did you give the related size of those assets as far as revenue in 2013? I don’t think if we gave the relative size of the assets somebody did ask the question earlier about how much revenue and what we said is it is historically about 40% of the revenue in the subsea and technical services segment.
Okay.
And I would assume it’s a lower margin than the rest of subsea and technical services? Yes so what we said about margin Stephen is that these businesses have really not produced positive margin for us in recent years.
They remain relatively neutral.
And so what that means is that some quarters they make money and some quarters they lose money because they have been unpredictable and overall low margin.
Okay great.
And then as you look at and this is in part I know Marshall touched on this.
When you look at the dividend how you see going forward is there a yield you’re looking at or is it just a comfort level with a certain cash payout on an annual basis? This point is based on a certain cash payout.
And so what we felt comfortable with and what the board felt comfortable with when we initiated the dividend or announced the initiation of a dividend in December I think it is $38 million a year in cash that we distribute to shareholders.
Okay.
Clearly what our desire would be my desire would be is as time goes on that we increase that dividend.
I am sorry Robert told me it’s $50 million.
That would come anyway.
Our CFO is on the call he could be in handy.
So I think with what we see is the future in this company we feel very comfortable being able to fund that kind of dividend.
Clearly what we would like to do overtime as the company grows and our cash generation capacity increases is to increase the dividend but I don’t know that we necessarily target a yield with it.
Okay now that’s good color.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing comments.
Okay well thanks to everyone for joining us today and we’ll see on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.