Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Friday April 25 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap our Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during today's call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We reported yesterday afternoon our quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion EBITDA of $254 million and net income from continuing operation of $42.6 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
Our results came in better than anticipated due to strong March.
Particularly for US land completion and production services as the inflection point we were anticipating began to materialize and stocks for our North American services grew March was the best month since August of last year.
Specifically we saw stronger activity for fluid management services driven by fluid heating activities pressure controlled services and well services rigs in the US.
During our last call I discussed a cost reduction and restructuring efforts in effort in several of our US businesses and the benefits of these efforts became apparent in our March results as we experienced very good incremental margins in our coiled tubing and fluid management businesses which will boast focal points for our cost improvement initiative.
The combination of realized cost savings and increased activity driven by additional horizontal drilling and completion activity has resulted in the positive path forward for our US business that we expected to see and it's consistent with what we expressed during our last conference call.
Our US land revenue increased 1% over the fourth quarter 2013 and marked the first quarterly increase in US land revenue since Q1 of 2013.
Onshore completion and workover services segment revenue which is derived entirely from the US land market increased 4% marking the largest quarterly increase since the second quarter of 2012.
The improvement was also better than the 2% increase in the average number of rigs drilling in the US from the fourth quarter 2013.
Our Gulf of Mexico performance was also consistent with what we believed we would experience during the quarter.
Overall revenue was down about 3% due to seasonal factors that impact our shelf activity during Q1 every year.
However Gulf revenue from our drilling products and services segment where we have deepwater exposure increased 11%.
International revenue was 8% lower than fourth quarter primarily driven by lower revenue in drilling products and services.
Lost in wholesales were lower in the first quarter but we also had several projects and rig that were in transition during the course of the quarter and expect to return to higher revenue levels internationally during the second quarter.
Overall our international expansion continues to be on track.
We are finding opportunities to transfer underutilized coiled tubing units from the US to new markets and are encouraged by startup opportunities that we were vetting in the Middle East and in Asia.
Our new contracts in Brazil are progressing as planned and Argentina continues to be a bright spot from an activity standpoint.
I think our first quarter results had a solid foundation for us to achieve the second quarter growth that we outlined for you on our last earnings call.
As you may recall that growth assumed an inflection point at March and April in the US land business complimented by additional contributions from new international project and a ramp up in a Gulf of Mexico activity.
With free cash flow is a primary focal point for our management team.
We continue to return cash to shareholder.
During the first quarter we paid our first quarterly dividend and we repurchased $82 million of our common stock.
Later Robert will discuss an accelerated share repurchase plan that we put in place during early March which accounted for a significant portion of our first quarter repurchases.
Also after Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter.
I will reaffirm how we see the second quarter shaping up.
With that I will now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment.
I'll make some comparisons to the fourth quarter 2013 adjusted operating income which excludes the specific parts of quarterly segments in the fourth quarter.
In addition we move the subsea construction and conventional and decommissioning businesses to discontinued operations for all period.
Those businesses were in the segment formerly known as subsea and technical solutions which we now call the Technical Solutions Segment.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $220 million and income from operations was $67 million which represents a 2% sequential decrease in revenue and 5% decrease in operating income.
Gulf of Mexico revenue from this segment was a record $101 million as we continue to benefit from rentals of premium drilled pipe and other specialty downhole tool.
This was offset by 21% decline in international revenue to $52 as previously described by Dave.
Year-over-year international revenue in this segment increased 3%.
US land revenue was flat at $67 million with lower rentals of premium pipe drill pipe offset by an increase in accommodations and bottom hole assembly.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was up 4% and $390 million and income from operations was 56% lower to $6 million.
There were three factors impacting the operating margin.
First; extreme weather in the Bakken resulted in lower revenue and higher cost and pressure pumping.
Second; as we noted on the last call.
We incurred some cost of inefficiencies and activating pressure pumping fleet in the Permian.
And third; depreciation increased 5% over the fourth quarter.
We accelerated depreciation on pressure pumping equipment as we sent $12 million to refurbish some of the fleets.
It's worth noting that was the first quarterly increase in revenue since the first quarter of 2013.
Fluid management led the way of revenue increasing almost 15% due to additional seeding revenue in the Rocky's and higher utilization of the water whaling fleets.
Production and services segment revenue was down 8% to $321 million while operating income decreased by 18%.
Despite the decline in operating income this segment is benefitting from lower costs due to some parts of the cost cutting and restructuring.
The biggest change came in coiled tubing where our operating margin improved significantly even though revenue was virtually unchanged.
US land revenue decreased 6% to $202 million primarily due to the decreases in remedial pumping.
International revenue was 3% lower at $84 million due to the decreases snubbing activity partially offset by an increase in remedial pumping as we started a project in Brazil.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 28% to $35 million due to seasonal declines in well maintenance work and the shallow water market.
Depreciation this segment was lower due in part of assets [indiscernible].
In the technical solution segment revenue was $130 million which represents a 1% increase in the fourth quarter.
Income from operations of $14 million was 13% higher.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 5% to $75 million primarily due to a decrease in the well control work partially offset by an increase in completion tools and products.
International revenue was 3% higher to $33 million due to an increase in the number of well control projects completed during the quarter.
US land revenue increased 28% to $22 million primarily related to sales of completion tool.
Turning to the balance sheet at the end of the first quarter our debt was $1.7 billion.
Debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5 times invested total capital was 29%.
For the quarter the company generated over $48 million of free cash flow.
From a share repurchase standpoint we have repurchased and retired 2.8 million shares year-to-date for a total consideration of $82.3 million or an average price of $29.12.
About 2.2 million of those shares were retired in the first quarter through a combination of open market purchases in January and an accelerated share repurchase program initiated in early March.
The remaining 633 000 shares purchased through the accelerated share repurchase program were delivered on April 17.
We have about $307 million left on our $400 million buyback authorization.
For the second quarter we think the weighted average share count to be approximately 159.2 million shares and this incorporates our share repurchases debt.
Capital addition during the first quarter were $154 million.
From modeling perspective in the second quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $154 million to $157 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $160 million to $162 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Okay thank you.
Robert.
The first quarter unfolded in a way that we believe makes the second quarter scenario we described in our last earnings call achievable.
We said that the second quarter is where you witness earnings inflection.
And we think that our Q2 earnings will be similar to the second quarter earnings of 2013 albeit with a slightly different make up.
We anticipate North American margins will be lower than the second quarter of last year but will be offset by contributions from international services and drilling products and services.
Given how we finish March we believe our North American margin should be closer to third quarter 2013 levels.
In addition we are experiencing records levels of activity in the Gulf of Mexico for our drilling products and services and our international services project are proceeding as scheduled.
Beyond the second quarter we will have continued operating leverage in the US as we saw the horizontal rig count continue to expand.
We still have underutilized capacity in the US including three idle frac fleet.
We think utilization must increase before we see meaningful price increases but we believe utilization will trend higher as the year progresses driven by continued increase in horizontal drilling and completion activity.
At this point we still believe that this year is about working through over capacity and increasing utilization.
Higher utilization along with the continued focus on optimizing our cost structure should drive improved margin as the year progresses.
On a separate note several weeks ago.
We lost our friend and long time Director Wyn Howard who passed away after recent [indiscernible].
Wyn was a tremendous contributor to our Board and particularly helpful to me during my transition to Superior several years ago.
Well I'll miss Wyn's astute industry knowledge his appreciation and understanding a corporate government and his impeccable southern charm.
That concludes our prepared remarks I think we will now open the line for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of David Anderson with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
And David Anderson your line is open.
Please check your mute button.
Our next question comes from the line Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Blake.
I'm glad somebody's there.
Well I'm glad to be that somebody I guess.
Couple of quick questions good guidance here.
As we kind of a check on some of these other the other moving pieces of the business.
You noted that the large moving DPS for the quarter internationally was really kind of rig transition and it's a big number is that really fully explain it and then as we get into your 2Q guidance.
When you talk about new international projects is that primarily DPS driven and should we kind of fully recover what we lost and maybe even gain some in the DPS internationally as we go look into 2Q? I mean certainly we expect the second quarter international levels to be higher as occasionally what happens when you get into one of these stages where you got either contract happen to end or rig that are moving and you're not able to get their rate on rentals on those rigs what we see there is primarily transit for but I certainly I don't know if we will capture 100% of the fact during the second quarter but we will make pretty good progress on that as we get projects with still afraid we're still back to quarter.
So I don't know if I perfectly answered your question.
It will be up in the second quarter I don't know if you gain back 100%.
Okay no that's exactly it.
It's been such a stall work growth wise it just kind of stuck out a bit so just wanted a get a little color there.
Just to clarify I mean we certainly don't think we are reaching a leveling out of international growth or rental.
I mean it's still a significant part of our overall growth CapEx in 2014 and I certainly expect overtime that we will see continued growth to that.
Great and then what really sticks out I mean you didn't have just massive cost cutting program but the improvements in productions services margins despite the another pretty shot down turn and revenue really sticks out and there is some of those efforts extended to fluids management.
I guess the first question around that would be is there anything as we go into this North American recovery that is really kind of out of bed versus the averages and if not it seems like your guidance towards 3Q margins for these North American based businesses maybe even like a bit conservative in a given the status that they're in on the cost side? I mean I don’t think that they're particularly conservative.
I mean the part of which you got to recognized here is that what we are seeing from the second quarter to the first quarter is largely in absence of the bad result that we all had in January due to weather and so we got -- I think pretty good visibility at this point on what the quarter should look like and I think you also have to keep in mind that as we see additional horizontal activity particularly in the Permian Basin be cautious there's some of the supply chain issues that you get when a market is scaling up like that.
I don't think that caused us to have particular conservative thoughts about what those margins should be in the second quarter perhaps it suffered a bit.
Great and then I'm going to get one more in here just because 10 is maybe limited just as we think about new technical services division.
Do you care to offer just kind of any broad insights in terms of renew the extreme seasonality will businesses what we should expect in terms of seasonality now that those are kicked out and maybe even it's very wide goalpost maybe what your gross or operating margin expectations longer term for that business.
Just as we start out modeling that up in a more singularly.
It should be a little bit easier for you to model going – we think because the businesses that are now in discontinued odds will probably; amongst the lumpiest businesses that were in that group and of course the lower margins businesses that we are in that group.
There is still seasonality here and that's not just in that segment.
It's also in our production services segment to a lesser extent drilling products and services and that's driven by the Gulf of Mexico shelf and that's not going to go away for us.
We will always have that seasonality in the first quarter that being said it's a lot smaller overall portion of our portfolio and so you won't see the same kind demonstrative changes seasonally in the first quarter we've had are occasional that figure.
I also would say this I mean the overall operating margin in that segment does have opportunities to improve as time goes on through the completion services business as it continues to expand internationally and also with our pressure pumping.
But then what we saw maybe at our first quarter here in terms of operating margin is good place to start for modeling purpose going forward.
It's pretty representative of what you would expect in that business at this point in time.
Great appreciate your time guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Maybe if we could start off I'm sure you saw this question coming but with the three idle frac fleets.
Are you starting to have some conversations about maybe putting them back to work because the market looked like it started to pick up enough where that's a realistic expectation over the next couple of quarter? We have kind of continual conversations about putting additional equipment to work.
I don't know think much is changed since we recorded our fourth quarter earnings two months ago that would cause me to say that I would expect any additional idle capacity go to work in the first half of the year.
I [will] show you the one fleet in the Permian Basin that we talked about the last call but the remaining fleets I don't believe there'll be an opportunity for those to work before the end of the second quarter.
As we get on to the second half of the year maybe our thoughts to get more optimistic about another fleet activating but I personally think that opportunity is probably better more towards the end of the year.
Okay and then maybe a big picture question.
When you look at where the recount is today versus the prior peak given the uplift in service intent to the broadly speaking? Is it safe to assume in your opinion Dave that we don't have to really need to get back to that kind of peak run rate but the rig count to observe what the excess capacity is out there in the US land market? I mean if more service intensive then it was in the prior peak.
So I mean I don't it takes the rig down to get to the peak [indiscernible].
All right fair enough.
Thanks Dave.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
One of the points that are being made in the fracturing businesses.
The difference between the brain and brawn and that the big guys have the technology and the little guys don't and as well as get more complex got to go to their disadvantage.
Where do you find yourself where do you put yourself on that gage and what are the benefits and drawbacks? So I think what we have witnessed in the North American fracturing business with the horizontal well work and longer laterals and more stages per well is that.
I think the technology by in large is been being [indiscernible] and instead what is emphasized is what I'll refer to as operational technology and so that's the ability to execute in a very efficient way on location and I think in the last year.
So you've heard some of the larger fracturing guys talk exactly about transforming their business to be one that is better equipped for fracturing in the future to deliver that kind of efficiency and Listen Jim here I'm an engineer.
I'm an technology guys the fact to the matter is what we seeing horizontal drilling really is not it doesn't have the same type of technical requirement from a chemistry standpoint from a fluid standpoint as what we had in the past refer to lower fractures.
Okay.
I appreciate that and can you talk a little bit and I missed it I apologize.
But in Brazil to venture a lot onshore but not all on onshore.
Are you insulated are you seeing the impact of all the things that are going on there and with the Word Cup coming up has anything changed slightly catch us up on Brazil.
We aren't seeing any changes in Brazil from what we expected during the first quarter.
I don't know listen as the World Cup goes on there may be few weeks in there we will review that from lower business [effort].
I've heard anecdotal things about travel restrictions and with big trucks in certain places but we are not anticipating any significant changes on our business hopefully.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Co.
please go ahead.
In your comment about Q2 resembling Q2 last year.
Are you guys adjusting for the contribution except the construction has I'm assuming within losing money in last year? The answer to your question yes.
Second quarter typically would not be one we would see the same kind of losses that you would be seeing in that discontinued offline during the first quarter.
Remember that those businesses are very subject to seasonal things during the first quarter as we pointed out over the years.
Quarter is usually one lowest to recovery to profitability there.
That all being said I mean what we told you guys about those businesses on the last call as they have been about breakeven business for us.
So I mean in essence what that implies down they're going to lose money in the first quarter and make small amounts of money at the third fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
When you consider the weather impacts in Q1? We'll see [exit] rate in March everyone is talking about how strong March is.
Is it reasonable to assume within your US land businesses double-digit top line growth and into Q2.
That's probably bit too high.
I mean we think about it something more in line with 5%.
One thing I'll say about this I mean March was clearly the best month of the quarter everybody has witnessed that and February gets a bit mad because when you look at your February results.
You got to remember there is only 28 days in February versus the 31 you had in March but I mean on a daily basis from a revenue standpoint.
Our February was fairly what we would have anticipated growth.
Really a January problem.
Okay.
Two quick ones.
If you can just remind me what the CapEx expectations are for this year and the breakdown between growth versus maintenance? It's in total around $650 million is the range on capital spend growth CapEx.
Yes half growth half maintenance.
Very similar what we had last year in it.
And then when would the growth CapEx again is that front back half.
I'm sure guess this is for modeling how we should pull that in.
It is pretty well evenly distributed during the course of the year.
Okay and then the last one for me pressure pumping from prior question.
Do you think Dave that you will see or need to see the industry pricing prior before attempt to reactive the frac fleet? No not necessarily.
I mean we activated a fleet here within the last four months and we didn't see pricing being the motivator for that.
Plus for us it is now and always has been about finding the right kind of customers that we believe is going to be able to drive high number of stages which caused us to have the best opportunity ultimately and make the best margin with our equipment.
It's not predicated on price.
And it's safe to assume you're not adding new frac horsepower this year? Well we have about $40 million in total capital going into the fracturing business.
All of it is related to refurbishment.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Starting with production services you commented in your prepared remarks that revenue for play was flat eventually it was margin confirming significantly.
Was that all cost saving driven or did you see any kind of improvement in utilization? It was mostly cost saving.
I mean I think in certain areas we did I mean Permian Basin would be one without little bit better utilization in Permian Basin and maybe slightly better utilization in South Texas but overall we think that margins were driven by the cost as we put it forth.
Okay and it sounds like from your pressure pumping commentary that your horizontal activity took up on that market place.
Any kind historically coiled tubing pretty closely correlated with that.
When will we see that market start turn for coiled? Well I mean I think as with the additional horizontal drilling rigs.
You're going to see incremental utilization opportunities in the coiled tubing business.
I think what we consistently said about this return to peak utilization levels at coiled tubing which were last experience about the first quarter of 2012 I guess.
We really need the two more high pressured gas in a horizontal oil application most of the time the operator has a choice between the coiled unit or a service rig when he's throwing out plus washing out problem in the high pressured gas well coiled tubing is really the only option.
Does that answer your question? It does yes and this is the last one from me in terms of your rentals business in [DTS].
I'm wondering your small peers talked about issuing a new price book what is pricing looking like in that business right now? The pricing grew we really have been seeing a lot of changes in prices from the businesses we're going through the last few years.
Typically our price changes in the oil businesses varies as we speak differences in fuel prices.
We don't know I don't think we have an initiative in place to put out a new price.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Dave what drive the next leg of growth in the international production services business.
I mean there's a couple things.
There are one as we've talked we do have an active -- a real desire to move some of the underutilized coiled tubing units internationally that goes into production surfaces and so that will help the – grow the revenue I guess in that business.
We've got other initiatives from a capital standpoint.
I mean we've got some new equipment that's seen built during the course of this year part of our growth capital and most of that is what drilling products and services and production services and that move will be the largest recipient for that so.
Its organic growth; I mean this is I think I kind of consistently describe what we do in the international.
It's three yards on a cloud of dust.
So don't look for big moves in the international business for one quarter to the next but these are all those practical things that you do as you're out market place just looking for new opportunities and production services and drilling parts and services are the two segments really will be benefit long term success.
You noted that the movement of coiled tubing can you quantify that you guys what's at this point on deck in terms of ship being shifted out of the US market? We've got about 20 coiled tubing units that we have pulled out of the US fleet and identified as units that we would really like to get placed in international market but I want to caution you on that.
I mean is not that something that happens and a single period.
We will probably spend two years maybe three years moving those coiled tubing units in there and at to the market.
If you think about 20 and Oh! Well and say maybe we get five of them moved out during the course of this year that'd be a really good outcome and maybe three if you get moved during the course of this year but there will be some movement.
The reason why it takes a while we are not just sending these out to in international market because they're available and we want to make sure that we go in and develop the right kind of opportunities when the units are delivered they become profitable for us right away.
Does that make sense? Yes it does and then just been the tie back in the first part of the question asked the cloud and dust analogy.
Production services on the international side should brand it ways towards that target sort of mid-teens year-over-year top line growth trajectory.
Yes I think that's right.
Okay and then I guess the last another one for me just.
Do you guys mentioned the accelerated share repurchase that's not an ongoing program and that's something you all put in for a brief year time but is there anything in place as we sit here today or how do we think about your attention to moving forward here? Well I think so we initiated the accelerated repurchase shortly after our fourth quarter earnings call.
It's when Robert mentioned it it was early March.
It expired on April 17 and I think our overall during that accelerated share repurchase – well for the quarter I've prices like $29.12.
Yes $29.12.
That's clearly that was a good move for us.
What we should about share repurchase in the past is we are going to take advantage of those situation where we see and disconnect in our stock price and what we believe the market looks like and really to get this done.
I'm not answering your question because what we said about share repurchases is it we will always say you on our quarterly call.
What we had done in the prior period but prefer not to talk about tactics for this quarter or going forward.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the answer thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Anderson with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Sorry about that before Dave.
Question on your offshore rental market I was specifically wondering what kind of drilled pipe market.
Just trying to wonder if you could give us a sense to how much of your business here is RSP driven.
You probably know where I'm going with this I wonder if you can speak about kind of any changes you're seeing up here on the demand side of that business and how concerned you're about that and whether or not you're being just kind of bit of pause or you expect that to pick up again.
Just to clarify are you speaking just the Gulf of Mexico or global? I was kind of speaking global but I was going to ask a follow-up question on the Gulf.
So maybe you could talk about global and we continue the Gulf state of mind.
Yes sure.
So I mean our business mix internationally for drilling products and services is largely offshore and it's not exclusively but it's largely offshore.
Outside of Brazil thought I'd say the bulk of it is with RSP RSP is in West Africa North Sea Asia and Middle East and then we do what prior season Brazil well the market there is likely central [province].
Gulf of Mexico we've got rental assets on virtually everyone of the deepwater rigs it's working.
So we can go look at the operator and it's for deepwater it's huge work RSP's.
Certainly but there is been big indefinite people like Anadarko and itself are important part that makes it well.
Obviously we've been hearing a lot of chatter about budgets and what not and I'm just kind of wondering are you seeing kind of which I guess kind of what can you give us a sense which direction that business is going.
Are you seeing kind of cuts coming through or is it sort of business is usual for you right now? It's business as usual.
I mean I know there were some industry players that had very ambitious expectations for deepwater market growth in the Gulf of Mexico during 2014.
I don't know that our expectations were as ambitious as others.
We believe that during the course of the year.
We'll see a slight uptick and when I say slight I'm talking about a couple of rig during the course of the year and still believe that there are some changes.
I mean you got some old generation rigs that are going out and new generations rigs are coming in.
We are in different generation rig.
Obviously drilling contractor you're in a different position.
As long as you're drilling your business is there.
Yes.
Specifically on the Gulf it's like 20% of your business now.
How do you see this kind of progressing say the next 20 months 12 months.
I know you're putting simulation wrestle in the market but I was kind of curious we've been hearing some mixed reports as to generally we've been hearing things starting to maybe a little bit better in the Gulf than the market may be might have thought can you talk about the Gulf itself and how you see that outlook and how your business be active.
It's always hard for me to keep up whether the markets believe about Gulf of Mexico.
I don't know [indiscernible] we see it's like uptick and overall growing rigs in the deepwater.
I don't expect much of change on the shelf.
I mean we've had a big turnover of properties in the shelf and continued turnover with Energy XXI acquisition of EPL but I'm not as optimistic about growth and shelf growing rigs during the course of this year that's probably more for 2015 to 2016 at least now.
So I think flat shelf and it's like a slight increase in deepwater rig.
When we offered guidance we said we believe their overall Gulf of Mexico would be up something in the range of high single-digits during the course of the year.
Okay and that's great.
Thanks a lot guys.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [Terry Louise] with Raymond James.
Can you hear me? Yes.
I know you love all your children Dave but what business segments are you most excited about and I want to ask it from two perspectives.
One; what is the where do you see the most improvements in terms of magnitude versus what you think this is most surprising? I mean the best opportunity and you're right [Marshall] I do love all my children.
The best opportunity for improvements is going to be in the completion.
Onshore completion in the production services segment.
I mean they've been down as a result of this activity the limit we've had in the US over the past six quarters or so and those two offered best opportunity for us.
And we've got really high quality businesses high quality management teams there.
I feel very confident as we see market improvement they are going to drive higher levels of revenue and higher margin.
So I mean both those segments really offer the best opportunity for us.
I think for the next couple of years that being said.
How you can you not love drilling products and services.
It's certainly been the sources of our growth CapEx over the past few years.
You probably heard this story before we don't take our last capital dollar and put it into that business.
We take our first and our second and our third capital dollar and put it in a business because we've had such a tremendous success rate.
Once again with the managers in those business and being really effective and deploying it down high margin high returns.
So what should surprise you the most in terms of improvements over the past and offer your four months five months? Well I've been very pleased with the improvements we made from a cost standpoint and it was largely in the completion in the production services segment.
So we turned to those guys about September 2013 and said okay we've had margin compression as a result of little bit price pressure and continue labor inflation.
We really need to look hard at how we can restructure and order to capture some of the margin back and those guys did a fabulous job of finding very creative ways for us to get more cost effective and they delivered that cost improvement faster than we thought they would.
I mean I really didn't think that we would see much impact to that during the first quarter they're the reason why we delivered a good number today.
All right.
Last question from me.
What condition is you know you've got three stacked fleets.
What condition would you describe those is being is there you know you need to do to get them up and running or are they good to go right now? They're good to go now.
We have to hire labor we just went through this exercise with a fleet that reactivated and if we were activating one of the three idle fleet.
We would probably need somewhere on the order of four weeks to six weeks to get it fully stacked.
Perfect.
Thanks Dave.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
I apologize if I miss this commentary but I want to just ask you when you at the different and I guess I'm thinking particularly on the onshore site.
How would you think about your incremental margin performance and is it you're given that you guys again done a good job kind of keeping cost pretty low during that softer periods? Could we see some sharper incremental near term because of the leaner cost structure? How should we think about that? If we had not witnessed so much of the cost savings in the first quarter.
I'd say answer to that maybe yes you probably would see higher than it's higher than normal incremental from this point but at least we've really seen the main body of those cost reduction in our Q1 result what I would expect to see is the revenue expense and completion in production services that we have somewhere in 30% 35% incremental margin.
Which on a service business that without any price changes that's we've got to expect.
Okay that's fair.
I'm not sure have you -- any thought on pricing in general in North America and when you may start to see gain a little momentum.
I'm all in favor of price increases.
I really don't expect that we will see movement in price in any of the phases until later in the year.
You have to think about the way this happen Stephen.
Is this we've got one basin which is really expanding that's the Permian and that's probably the place that people will begin to experience price improvements at first but also keep in mind that we have many other basins out there and clean place like Bakken South Texas and of course the Marcellus.
When we continue to be in relatively flat markets and flat markets we know are not the places where you would see prices in fact you continue to see price competition so when you look at our overall blended basis.
It is probably not in the very near term that in total of those businesses would experience price improvement.
We need a few more horizontal rigs to go.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Schumm with Cowen &amp; Co.
please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered already but Dave I would like to get your thoughts on just some of your competitors been announcing capacity additions in frac and I just wanted to get your thoughts on that? Are you surprised by these additions that people are announcing? I don't understand everybody's interworking to their fracturing business.
I understand mine and what I know about what we've done is we have consistently over the past few years put maintenance capital dollars into our fleet that we are constantly rebuilding equipment.
If we had not done that I have a bit of dilemma.
I'd either have to really ramp up maintenance capital assuming which means I got to build something that got to work well I'm doing that rebuild.
You see what I'm saying and so everybody I'm sure is in a little bit different situation here.
Clearly people want to have their fleet in good working conditions markets improved and I think everybody's believing that markets continue to improve this year and maybe in the next year as well.
One day we will – to ask work again.
If you're off that belief and your fleets are in need of refurbishment then you probably do need to go put some orders out there and get some equipment in so you've got something to work while you're rebuilding what's after now.
Right? Okay.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
I guess where I wanted to go because it just wasn't completely clear.
When we had the investor day last year you know there was a definitive emphasis on international growth and it definitely seems like the North American environment seems to be getting better.
Maybe the emphasis is shifting here and maybe that's also a function of what's happening in the offshore market.
How do we really think about kind of what the international growth targets are? Maybe your visibility into how that's happening given the fact that offshore is obviously going to slowdown this year that maybe carries in it next year a little bit versus where we are expecting growth maybe in North America? First off we'll disagree on offshore pulling down during the course of this year but I don't think that is the question.
Our emphasis on growth is really notching.
It still is focused on international I think Darren the fact that we have finally begun to see the increase in horizontal rigs that we needed to see in order to drive better business performance in the US that certainly is capturing a lot of [FI] prices but for us the emphasis is notching.
Our primary growth initiatives and our growth capital are primarily directed to the international market that was the case when we had our investor day last year.
That's the case today it will be the case at the end of this year and probably next year as well.
I mean for our company it represents international represents.
The best long-term growth opportunity for us.
It is our central and core strategy within the company and it will be for a long time.
Got you.
I mean Dave you've kind of narrowed it in one business let's say like with pipe rental.
When you look kind of visibility for demand how far and advance are you taking orders for premium pipe rentals and what's the visibility there as you think about that especially with pertaining to kind of offshore international this point of game.
Just to get a sense of what your visibility is? I mean visibility changes from -- it's different from one market to the next.
I mean a lot of these international markets are contract limit and so when you're in it when you're in a position where you've got where your business is covered by contracted you've got very very solid visibility especially in the rental business where you're not so subject to activity disruptive I guess as you would be in the services business.
Visibility is very good where you have contract.
It's typically not as good where you don't have contract.
Overall I would say we are bit more ready to contract internationally and that's not unique to us that's just the international business.
So did that give you kind of lead time six months to nine months out.
I'm just trying to get a sense of kind of how the business is going to lined itself up to have a look? Six months to nine months is fairly certain visibility on the international.
Got it.
If I could sneak one more in on the onshore completion side.
You've mentioned in the written release food management was a pretty good contributor.
What's the outlook there is that something that the heating related food management? Is that something that kind of goes away kind of in a counter seasonal sort of way and how do we think of that form like an order of magnitude when not only think about modeling that segment? Overall what we expect in that business is relatively flat performance from Q1 to Q2.
So you're losing some healing revenue which is seasonal and which we are seeing in Q4 and Q1 but we are gaining as we speak additional horizontal rigs that have gone in the market and they're trying their best driving a bit higher demand and hauling in a frac mix and so you think about it flat from Q1 to Q2 that's kind of how we are thinking.
Great well thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with RBC.
Please go ahead.
It's Kurt here.
I was on mute as well apologize for that.
Dave I was wondering you look at the – I was able to hop on very late on this call.
Okay so I apologize if I'm going to miss something you said a little bit earlier.
Okay.
How do you see things shaking out here in North American and maybe specifically to coiled tubing seems like that's going to be a pretty challenged market given the fact that natural gas is not coming back around at those capacity and how much of a drag do you think that could be for the year? I don't see it as a drag.
I mean coiled tubing probably doesn't have the same opportunity that the business doesn't have the same opportunity to increase with horizontal rig count is fracturing or the fluid management business but nonetheless it benefits probably more horizontal rigs got to work there will be higher coiled tubing.
We are deliberately taking some of our capacity out of the US attempting to place it internationally so that's some of self-help that we are able to do in that business.
Perhaps others don't have available.
I think all of the US businesses it's the one that improves the least during the course of 2014 but nonetheless it's improving.
Did I answer your question? Yes that's helpful.
I do appreciate that.
I always like to ask a question guys like yourself have been in this business through many many cycles.
Clearly we are on the verge of something fairly early stage here in North American land.
I mean what's your sense on the sustainability of this move and how much pricing power do you think this industry could get as we move forward? You don't have to give me specifics I'm just trying to get be at your sense and how optimistic you are? I'm relatively bullish I guess on what you think about is kind of long-term market opportunity for North America which is been driven by oil.
We see 2014 is been driven by oil 2015 may continue to be driven by oil and I think most would believe there is some point in time we will begin to see some incremental activity from gas which we know is going to be activity in the gas shale's.
Once again driven horizontal high-service intensity.
As I think about the next kind of three years four years five years.
I feel pretty good about where we are I think you're right we seem to be at a relatively early point in this cycle.
With the volume of rigs that are working today I think we'll see these incremental activity increases but they're incremental.
And so maybe what we've got for free at the time it's kind of well behaved market kind of hate to say that not been our history in oil field services to see that but that seems to be a position we are in today.
To take that thought so what about pricing? What needs to happen in order for pricing to begin the move.
We've got to see more of the capacity that is underutilized in US got to work and I think happens as we had horizontal rigs.
I don't believe that there are enough horizontal rig additions to see that overall pricing opportunity and so maybe very end of this year or into 2015 but clearly that opportunity is out there on horizon at some point.
Cool that's great Dave.
Appreciate that color.
Thank you.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
I don't think we have any other remarks.
Other than to say thanks for joining us and we will talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our conference here today.
If you would listen to replay of today's call.
Please dial 303-590-3030 with access code 4678489.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.