Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded October 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Robert Taylor Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today is Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I will now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Robert and good morning to everyone.
Yesterday we reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $332 million and net income from continuing operations of $85.7 million or $0.55 per diluted share.
Higher demand for many of our product lines drove a 13% sequential increase in revenue in our U.S.
land market with our hydraulic fracturing business leading the way.
We did not have any additional idle equipment mobilizations during the quarter.
Instead our improvement was a result of higher revenue generated by our fleets in the Permian Bakken Eagle Ford and Marcellus.
In addition the fleet that we activated earlier this year reached optimal utilization during the quarter.
The supply chain for the fracturing business continues to be tight but our team has managed through this challenge and the impact was inconsequential during the quarter.
I believe that today we're running the most efficient hydraulic fracturing business in the U.S.
and are poised for continued growth.
Our Drilling Products and Services product lines also benefited from higher revenue as a result of the continued strength of horizontal drilling in the U.S.
More significantly during the third quarter we continued to experience very solid international revenue growth up over 20% from last quarter.
The revenue increase was broad-based with contributions from the North Sea Australia Indonesia and Brazil.
Outside of Drilling Products and Services our international expansion continues to gather momentum.
Recent global events have resulted in some negative sentiment to the international markets.
However I'll remind you that our growth strategy is a rifle-shot approach tightly focused on markets that we believe offer better near-term certainty.
So far our targets have proven to be insulated from the pressures that have caused growth prospects in countries such as Russia Iraq and Libya to give investors concern about near-term international growth.
I'll have more comments about our near-term international opportunities as we discuss our outlook.
Finally our Gulf of Mexico revenue was relatively flat during the quarter.
Like most offshore service providers we were impacted by loop currents during the course of the quarter.
However it is clear that our overall size in the market and product line diversity largely insulated us from any significant impact of this weather phenomenon.
I think that the earnings growth that we experienced in Q3 demonstrates continued success in our core strategies related to international expansion and higher utilization in the U.S.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Robert.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter 2014.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue is $239 million and income from operation was $78 million which represents a 6% sequential increase in revenue and a 17% increase in operating income.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% to $86 million.
We experienced higher levels of rentals for accommodations and bottomhole assembly.
International revenue increased 24% to $64 million primarily due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe in the North Sea and Australia as well as increased rentals of accommodations in Trinidad.
Gulf of Mexico revenue from this segment was $90 million which was 3% lower than the second quarter primarily due to decreased specialty rentals.
Operating income was helped by a better mix of higher-margin premium drill pipe activity.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was up 18% to $471 million with income from operations of $55 million significantly higher than Q2.
As Dave mentioned in his opening comments on a sequential basis the revenue increase was driven primarily by an increase in pressure pumping services.
Production Services segment revenue increased slightly to $349 million while operating income decreased to $13 million.
Increased U.S.
land revenue was offset by a decrease in Gulf of Mexico and international revenue.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% to $225 million primarily due to increase in coiled tubing wireline and snubbing services.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 3% to $37 million and international revenue decreased 5% to $87 million.
This segment experienced a decline in operating income which was primarily driven by an increase in repairs and maintenance expense in our coiled tubing business decreased snubbing activity and higher costs in our U.S.
land wireline business.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue was $150 million which represents an 8% increase from the second quarter while operating income declined to $16 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 4% to $84 million primarily due to increased plug and abandonment and well control activity.
U.S.
land revenue increased 20% to $32 million primarily related to well control services and sale of completion tools.
International revenue increased 5% to $34 million primarily due to increased well control services.
Operating income was negatively impacted by our business mix as our typically high-margin completion tools revenue was down from a very strong performance in the second quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter our debt was just under $1.7 billion.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.4x and debt to total capital was 28.5%.
Capital additions in the third quarter were about $123 million and we expect capital additions for the year to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
We fully expect free cash flow for the year to be in excess of $250 million.
In the third quarter we repurchased and retired about 2 million shares for $69 million.
Year-to-date through September 30 we have repurchased and retired 5.9 million shares for a total consideration of $186 million.
For the fourth quarter we think the weighted average share count should be approximately 155 million shares.
This incorporates our share repurchases through the third quarter.
From a modeling perspective in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $158 million to $161 million.
G&amp;A expense in the third quarter is up just over $8 million from the second quarter.
But as you will recall from our second quarter conference call G&amp;A expense in the second quarter benefited from approximately $6.8 million of net positive adjustments that did not repeat.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $173 million to $177 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
International expansion continues to be at the forefront of our strategic initiatives as we have laid the groundwork for what should be significant international growth in 2015.
During Q3 we acquired an Indian private company that has an attractive presence in the land market primarily in Rajasthan.
Product offerings today include cased hole wireline and well testing but we see near-term opportunities to add coiled tubing and pressure pumping to this business during the next 12 months.
This provides us another solid platform and management team to build what we expect to be another significant country operation.
In Colombia we were awarded 2 separate multiyear pressure pumping contracts with start-up in early 2015 that should result in a near doubling of our revenue base.
In Argentina during Q4 we will start up nitrogen coiled tubing and drill pipe operations to add to our cased hole wireline well test and flowback businesses.
The product line expansion is being accomplished with assets repositioned from the U.S.
and entering a market that we believe will experience significant growth over the next few years as Argentina begins to unlock the resource potential of their unconventional reservoirs.
In Brazil we've been awarded a multiyear land coiled tubing contract and have several drill pipe contracts that begin in early 2015.
Our multiyear landing string contract with Petrobras has begun to hit full stride.
And although we still have several ongoing contracts that are not at full utilization we are beginning to see signs of increasing activity in Brazil.
We will talk in greater detail about our 2015 growth expectations for the international businesses during our Q4 conference call but it is clear to me that we have set the table for very strong international growth in the years to come.
We've talked to you in the past about portfolio optimization being an important part of our effort to increase returns in the company.
Our recent optimization efforts are focused on Hallin Marine.
We have not identified a buyer that is willing to pay what we consider to be a fair valuation for the business and so have launched an effort to sell Hallin's assets separately.
Although this business has not performed well for us there has never been a question about the high quality of the assets and we have been encouraged by the market uptake since the asset sale process began.
We expect the majority of asset sales to be concluded during the next several quarters.
As completions activity in the U.S.
land market continues to increase we will have deployed another 50 000 hydraulic horsepower in our U.S.
fleet by the end of Q4.
This includes the addition of a fleet in the Permian Basin on a committed basis not in the spot market.
Although all of our U.S.
product lines have benefited from the continued increase in horizontal drilling rigs several of our Production Services product lines continue to experience margin pressure.
We have had some recent success in relocating Production Services assets from the U.S.
and will continue our strategy to rightsize the U.S.
fleet transfer assets to international markets and continue to seek ways to optimize our cost.
Although completions demand in the U.S.
has continued to increase we will keep a watchful eye on how our customers respond to the recent decline in oil prices.
There has been no impact at this point and we do not expect any material impact on planned spending through the end of Q4.
However we understand the relationship between our customers' cash flow and future spending and we'll continue to be cautious in our approach to further expansion of our U.S.
asset base.
I am very proud of the work our management team and employees at Superior.
And I'm confident that you will continue to see us convert the operating leverage available on our U.S.
service lines and success in our international expansion efforts into continued earnings growth.
And with that we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You have been pretty darn good at prognosticating activity in certain areas particularly Gulf of Mexico.
I'd like to get your thoughts on the elephant in the room which is the price of oil coming down.
At today's oil price where do you see the greatest risk both in terms of by region and by product line? Is there certain areas that stand out as riskier or less risky than others I guess is the question.
Yes I mean I think the biggest risk in 2015 is in the U.S.
land market.
I think it probably takes a little bit longer for international markets and deepwater offshore markets to really respond to this.
And I think the risk probably lies in some of the areas that are not in the heart of some of the conventional basins today.
So we've seen some activity increases in places like the Eaglebine and perhaps in the Mid-Continent area and SCOOP and STACK.
And maybe those are the areas that are -- that we would see any change in spending levels occur first.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And by product line any specific products we should be more worried about than others? It's going to -- you're going to see it in the way of horizontal drilling activity.
And all of our product lines have a leverage to a horizontal rig count so I think they all have potential exposure.
I think clearly today the tightest part of the supply chain in our service lines resides in hydraulic fracturing.
And so perhaps it's some of the other product lines that feel any weakness first and hydraulic fracturing is down the list a bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last one for me.
Loop currents seems like that was an issue this quarter.
Does that solve itself in the next quarter or 2? Is that -- should we expect to bounce back there in the [indiscernible]...
Well I think the challenge you get into in the fourth quarter in the Gulf of Mexico is in the way of cold fronts.
And so what were challenges with loop currents over the last 3 or 4 months very soon becomes challenges with cold fronts.
And it's very normal for us to see some seasonal upset particularly in Production Services-related work or end-of-life related work during the fourth quarter.
Mr.
Jonathan Sisto with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David you are one of the few service companies that kind of calls out your pressure pumping margins.
You obviously showed a very healthy improvement quarter-over-quarter.
As we think about the fourth quarter is there a risk that there's some sort of seasonality or customer slowdown around the holidays that might impede us from continuing to see that margin improvement? Yes I don't know that it is necessarily isolated as an issue to hydraulic fracturing Jonathan.
But I think that it is quite normal for us to see some type of seasonal slowdown occur in the fourth quarter and it is always going to be around the holiday periods.
Weather can have a negative impact on that around the holiday periods in the fourth quarter.
And it's -- we've seen it happen in recent years where operators are going to deliberately slow down around the Thanksgiving or Christmas holidays.
And if the weather happens to be bad around there then the slowdown lasts a bit longer.
And so I think everybody ought to be aware of that.
I don't think that's isolated to hydraulic fracturing or that hydraulic fracturing is in any more exposed to that potential than any of the other product lines.
So I mean it's out there.
That's what happens in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And the 50 000 horsepower that -- to be reactivated in the quarter is that -- will that be the last of what you have on the fence? We've got more horsepower that could go to work in 2015 if we see the opportunities to put it to work for the right customer at the right price.
We've been consistent in saying as we activate horsepower that those are really the criteria.
And at this point that would continue to be our criteria for activating more hydraulic fracturing equipment.
Honestly 2 months ago I would have probably been a lot more optimistic about saying we're going to have more hydraulic fracturing horsepower that goes to work early in 2015.
I think at this point we need to be a bit more cautious in that optimism until we understand a little bit better what our customers' budget plans are for next year.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
And Robert maybe if I could as the international revenue stream comes online in '15 given the prepared remarks should we think that the tax rate kind of comes down a little bit more? It might a little bit but I wouldn't model in anything significant.
Robin Shoemaker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just Dave sticking on the North America front again.
Is your -- apart from the issue of reactivating some of your idle assets the assets that are deployed are you at full utilization now in terms of number of days per month that a -- and 24-hour operations that -- and I would expect that has largely explained the improvement in your margins year-to-date.
But what further improvements and utilization apart from the pricing issue which I also wanted to ask about but.
So Robin I think it's probably safe to say at this point that we -- I wouldn't say that any of our product lines in the U.S.
today are at full utilization.
We've seen the greatest increase in utilization from our fracturing fleet over the past -- over the course of the past 2 quarters but all of the other product lines still have utilization improvements available to them.
And those utilization improvements would be seen in the way of increasing horizontal rig count.
Did I answer your question? Well you asked about price as well.
And so on the...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then...
On the issue of price I mean we witnessed a bit of pricing improvement during the second quarter and some of that converted into a bit better price in hydraulic fracturing during the third quarter.
But that's really been the only product line where we've seen any change of note.
Research Division</strong> And on the procurement of sand and all the logistics behind that how do you feel you're positioned? Are you experiencing the big surge in sand pumped per well like others are talking about? And how do you assure yourselves that you get the adequate volumes and at the right price? Yes so -- I mean we are experiencing the same phenomenon related to sand per well or sand per stage that the entire market is experiencing and we've been very consistent with what we've said to you guys about this.
When we activate a fleet we're going to have certainty of sand supply over long term and that is exactly what we have done.
So we're very confident in sand supply for the fleets that we have working today.
If we choose to activate additional equipment in 2015 before it goes to work we will have secured long-term sand supply.
The market's tight.
It is clearly possible to secure more sand supply.
We're doing it now.
I mentioned that we're activating another 50 000 horsepower before the end of the quarter and we wouldn't activate it if we didn't have long-term sand supply.
So listen it's a tight supply chain.
No question.
I think over time it gets better but we've demonstrated that we have a -- we can manage through this without experiencing interruptions in the business.
Mr.
John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave as I recall I'm going back in my memory bank here which is dangerous.
But you guys had previously talked about desire to grow broadly speaking international revenues I think 15% 20% per year.
In an all else being equal world given the recent deployments of equipment in new areas the Colombia contract the acquisition of the Indian company does that get you to that 15% to 20% threshold next year? Yes.
So as I mentioned we'll give you some specifics on international growth expectations when we announce our Q4 earnings.
But the real easy answer to your question is yes I think so.
I mean we're a bit light in international growth in 2014 from that kind of midpoint 15% annualized expectation that we've expressed to you guys.
I think we're probably a little bit overachieving that next year and I'll give you more specifics on that when we report Q4.
But -- and that's the way you ought to expect growth to occur.
It would be nice if it was kind of on a straight line 15% a year over 5 years.
But the reality is you're going to have some years that fall below that and that's the case this year and other years which exceed that.
I think the fact that we have so much positive going on late in the year in 2014 related to acquisitions as well as new contract awards and equipment transfers that it sets the stage for a pretty nice growth in 2015 since most of those contracts and asset transfers will be in place in Q1.
So you get a full year benefit out of them.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Are there any -- it's an impressive list which is why I asked the question.
As we think about Q4 and your Onshore Completion and Workover Services business you've got the benefit of the incremental fleet going out presumably a nice exit rate from Q3.
Yet you've got the seasonal factors that impact well servicing and trucking and you know the drill there.
Just directionally how would you expect the top line within that segment? What are you thinking in terms of Q4? I'm always going to be cautious on what happens around the seasonality and holiday season during the fourth quarter.
Because it seems that whenever we try and get robust in expectations in the fourth quarter we get -- we wind up seeing something happen around the holidays that was not what we expected.
So to me even with additional horsepower going to work which as I said it's going to work during the course of the quarter and it will be fully in place by the end of the fourth quarter.
And when we activated a new fleet in the first quarter it took us a bit of time before it was really up to full utilization so I'm not thinking that that additional 50 000 horsepower adds a whole lot for us during the quarter and that in addition to what we see from a seasonal standpoint with holidays achieving flat revenue would be a big deal.
I mean I think that would be -- I think we'd be pressed to do that.
Mr.
Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Turning now to the Gulf of Mexico.
Dave you talked about how revenue has been -- was flat sequentially and it's pretty much been relatively flat throughout the year but still up about 4% year-over-year.
Now with the loop currents and [indiscernible] past that do you think you guys can still hit your high single-digit target for year-over-year growth for Gulf of Mexico? It'll be a stretch.
I mean we -- I won't say it's just impossible but it would be a stretch to get there.
And although loop currents were -- listen loop currents impacted everybody during the course of the quarter.
If we had not had loop currents clearly our earnings would've been a bit better.
We think it probably cost us on the order of $0.01 or $0.02.
And clearly that would've driven rental tools up closer to that 8% 9% mark that we put out there for the year.
So I don't know.
A lot just depends on what happens in the way of cold fronts and other activity in the Gulf of Mexico during Q4.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And now switching gears to Production Services.
Can you talk about what caused the increase to your repair and maintenance expenses? And do you think those are going to continue to run at a higher rate going forward? Well I don't -- it's hard to call.
We had I don't know 6 or 8 strings of coiled tubing that we prematurely had to move off a truck.
So generally when we get new pipe -- and remember these are 2-inch generally 2 or 2 and 3 inch -- 2 3/8 diameter coil strings that are in the neighborhood of $200 000 to $300 000 in cost.
We generally expect that we're going to get somewhere in the neighborhood of a 6-month useful life.
And we had 6 or 8 strings this quarter that did -- only got us 2 or 3 months.
So they had to come out of service earlier than anticipated.
We don't let them fail in the well.
We have predictive measures that we're able to use so that we remove the pipe from the unit before we put ourselves at risk of a failure.
And when we do that pull that unit off of -- or pull that pipe off of a unit before its expected life is done then we've got to account for a higher expense for it.
We've taken the pipe back to the manufacturer to better understand why useful life was impacted in the way that it has.
And so I can't give you an answer to whether or not it's a onetime event or something that we may see again in the future.
It is a bit unusual though.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that definitely helps.
And last one a quick balance sheet question for Robert.
The decline in assets held for sale on the balance sheet by about $40 million was that in relation to the Hallin Marine? Or is there anything else causing that? It's actually both.
It was a collection of accounts receivable for those businesses.
And those were used to satisfy some of the remaining liabilities associated with those businesses.
Mr.
Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Dave in the past you've accurately pointed out that we should monitor and concentrate a little bit more on the rig count rather than necessarily the well count in North America.
Who knows what's going to happen next year.
But if maybe we see the rig count flatten out a little bit does that necessarily preclude you from still driving some operating leverage out of the U.S.
land business or because of efficiencies and well intensity et cetera? Or do we need the recount [ph] to continue to move higher in your view? Well I mean so this is a...
Research Division</strong> That's a tough one.
I know.
No it's not a tough question.
It's actually -- it's really not.
The real issue and the variable here becomes how long is it going to be flat.
Because what I can tell you is that if you go flat for a couple of quarters then your ability to continue to drive efficiencies is there.
But what we know about flat markets is that ultimately in a flat market you do begin to experience cost inflation and flat markets are not an opportunity to improve prices.
And so you see what we saw in the second half of 2013 which is some margin compression.
So a lot just depends on for how long.
And I think that's -- there's not a reason for us at this point to believe that a flat market expectation is the right one.
But the other thing is how long does it last? And to me I look at 2013 and what we saw in 2013 were 2 quarters -- the first 2 quarters of results that were very flat with we had in the fourth quarter and then we began to see some margin compression in the second half of the year.
Now we're at a bit higher market level today overall higher rig count than we were in 2013.
So that tells me that you're not going to see a complete repeat of the type of performance that we saw then.
But in the back of my mind that's kind of an expectation.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> No it certainly does.
It's a great answer.
And then maybe kind of following on with that theme depending on what North America looks like next year and I know it's early to think about growth CapEx plans for '15.
But given your rifle-shot approach and your discipline internationally if the North American market's a little flatter does that present more of an opportunity to accelerate some of those growth opportunities internationally? Or are we going to just stick to our discipline and take it from there? Well I don't know that it really changes our pace of investment internationally.
We have -- our pace of investment internationally has increased the last couple of years.
It will continue to increase as that business matures and has more opportunities for new capital investment.
I think that what we have done -- and I feel very proud of this fact.
What we have done in building out this international business is we have done it in a disciplined way that is not outreaching what we're capable of managing in the right way.
And the result has been that we've had strong and steady growth internationally without having some of the management hiccups that many companies like ours that have tried to expand internationally have experienced.
So from a cash standpoint a flat U.S.
market that doesn't present good growth opportunities makes more cash available for international.
But we've had cash available the last 2 years and what we've done is continue to follow a pace that we believe results in a good solid return as well as earnings growth internationally.
And don't expect us to do anything differently.
Mr.
Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave on the Production Services side just trying to think about how margins evolve here going forward.
The U.S.
side's a bit of a question mark just given the commodity environment.
But when we look at the international additions that you highlighted that are going to fold [ph] through that Production Services business how accretive could margins on that business be? Or how accretive are margins on that business relative to some of the margins we're seeing right now? So what I'll tell you is that overall Production Services international margins today are at a higher level than Production Services in the U.S.
That's a smaller part of the mix.
As we add assets to the Production Services business internationally over time as those assets come in place and they reach full utilization then we'd expect to drive very good -- better margins than what we see in the segment in total.
But when you move the assets you're not getting anything in the quarter that you move the asset.
You're probably having to hire crews at the receiving location in advance of the assets going to work.
Assets seldom go to work at optimal utilization on day 1.
It's a bit of a building and phasing prospect that you go through when you transfer the assets in.
I don't mean to set that up to sound like it's going to take us 1 year.
It's usually a matter of 1 quarter or 2 before you see the assets delivering the type of incremental margins that we would expect.
And just for clarification on Production Services assets we'd expect those incremental margins to be kind of in the 30% EBITDA range.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a follow-up just in terms of triangulating on that international growth rate in aggregate next year can you give us a sense for the revenue generation of the business you're acquiring over in India? Just to understand what that's folding in for you guys at current pace.
So let me see if I can give you a bit of help on this one.
We would expect over the course of the next year or 2 that India is kind of a $30-million-a-year operation for us.
Was that helpful? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is.
That's perfect.
I didn't tell you where it is right now but that's where we would expect it to go.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to get a little more granular just in terms of pressure pumping number of fleets that are contracted long term and how that looks into '15? I know reactivating you said it would have a long-term contract.
I just want to get a sense of mix and maybe how we want to think about how long-term contracts are pricing relative to maybe spot market and the rest.
Okay.
I think that it is 8 fleets that we have that are contracted at this point.
And of course this is a time of year where we're going through negotiations on further extension of those contracts so I'll be able to give you a much clearer idea of what the absolute contracts are going forward when we get to our Q4 call.
But I'd give you this bit of color.
I don't expect the numbers of contracted fleets to be higher in 2015 but I think they're probably going to be about the same.
I mean I think we'll wind up with another 8 contracted fleets in 2015.
Part of what we'll be talking about with the customers and have been talking about with those customers about extensions is what's more important to us the cost recovery price improvement or longer-term nature of the contracts.
What I can tell you in general about our contracted fleets is that they tend to be priced very competitively but they also tend to be the highest utilization fleets.
And what we've learned about that pricing model is that even at a very competitive price level we can generate very high margins with those fleets when they're highly utilized.
So preservation of that core part of the business I look at as being an important part of our formula going forward.
And so all of these things are kind of in the mix.
And I know I didn't give you a perfect answer on this Darren but it's kind of because we're in the middle of the process with these contract renewals now.
We'll give you good color on it when we get to the Q4 call but my expectation is we'll continue forward with 8 fleets that are contracted.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
One more sort of on the same front.
You talked about securing sand supply.
Is there anything different in terms of the way those contracts are being negotiated? Is -- obviously there's usually take-or-pay components.
Is there fixed volume? Does -- is there -- that they're kind of required to make sure is available? How does it work just as you think about utilization of some of the fleets and what may be coming on and the rest? How do you -- how are things changing maybe from the way things were negotiated before? I don't know that they've changed a lot.
I mean typically if you want to lock into certainty of supply from a mine then you're having to buy forward.
And I don't think that's -- that's not new.
That's been part of the business for some time.
The actual details on those terms some people will refer to them as take-or-pay.
In other cases they're treated more like a volumetric commitment that can have some flexibility on deliveries.
So I don't know.
They take on different forms.
I would say this though back to your question.
I don't the form of those deals have changed dramatically in the last year.
There are still plenty of people out there that are interested in investing and building mines although I'd say more of them are brown sand mines than they are white sand mines in recent months but there's supply that's available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
If I could squeeze one in on a slightly different topic of -- when you look at the international growth are we still mainly looking at that being driven by rentals? And I'm assuming a good a decent chunk especially premium pipe could be for offshore projects.
That requires a certain amount of outlook on what's going happen next year in the offshore market.
Can you give us a little color on what you're seeing there? And how you kind of perceive the mix of international growth maybe with respect to that? Yes so I mean I think the way you ought to think about our international growth it's occurring in 2 different segments: one is in Drilling Products and Services and the other is in Production Services although clearly we have some opportunities that are more completions-oriented as we go forward.
I mentioned fracturing as being an opportunity in India and I think there'll be a fracturing opportunity at some point in Argentina as well and hopefully some other places.
But think about it as Drilling Products and Services and Production Services as being the primary pieces.
Your comment on drill pipe I mean our product line is weighted generally in premium drill pipe to the offshore market.
That being said we've got drill pipe going down to Argentina right now that's clearly for a land market.
When it's going into a land market as it is in Argentina some of that pipe is under a contract some of it will not be kind of the way that we've -- in the U.S.
land market most of our pipe is not long-term contracted but we've got some going into Argentina that is.
Nearly everything that we put into the international markets has got some kind of contract that goes along with it.
And so when we think about those offshore opportunities when we send pipe into an international market generally we've got a long-term commitment to go along with that.
So I don't feel that it is -- I don't feel that it's subject to a lot of changes or sways in spending that could occur in the future.
But as I said on an earlier comment I don't know that you should expect what's happened in oil prices recently to have a very near-term effect on the international countries that we operate in.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I imagine you have better lead time and kind of visibility for a little bit further out on some of the international work.
Is that fair to say? And can you maybe kind of define that? Yes.
I mean it is fair to say.
We generally do have better visibility and I don't know what I said.
Yes it usually does have a much clearer line of sight than what we see in the U.S.
Management there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Okay.
Well thank you very much to everyone for joining the call today and we'll see you on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today's conference please dial (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 2102356.
The conference center would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.