Welcome to the Superior Energy Services fourth quarter earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations for Superior Energy Services.
With me today are Superior’s President and CEO Dave Dunlop and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business managements’ plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlop.
I’ll review fourth quarter and full year highlights Robert will discuss segment results and then I’ll conclude with some thoughts on our outlook for the first quarter and full year of 2015.
In a press release issued yesterday afternoon we reported revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $301 million and net income from continuing operations of $73 million or $0.48 per diluted share.
Many of our listeners today will remember that we concluded our third quarter 2014 call with remarks that we were becoming increasingly weary of the commodity price environment the impact it may have on our customers and our inclination to be cautious in our approach to US expansion.
At that time in late October the US landmark had started the quarter very strong but oil prices had begun to soften.
We were always concerned with seasonality in Q4.
However the precipitous drop in oil prices and corresponding decline I rig activity gave us further pause and we chose not to deploy any additional assets into the US operation during the quarter.
Internationally revenues were down slightly from Q3 as a result of product mix.
Revenue from the Gulf of Mexico was also down slightly in the quarter.
We typically expect the Gulf of Mexico to be soft in Q4 as a result of seasonality but there’s something more to it than just weather and seasonality.
It is clear that the market and the shallow water Gulf of Mexico is simply different today.
The market is very mature and its shrinking.
As plug and abandonment and well intervention opportunities decline it is obvious that revenue from these services in the Gulf will follow suit.
This isn’t an observation formed overnight but one based on many consecutive quarters of receding activity.
This change reinforces how critical our strategy of geographic expansion in our core targeted countries is to our growth prospects.
As we’ve been telling you for some time now our approach to international expansion is targeted and disciplined.
We’ve been able to grow without making large upfront capital commitments and our core product lines are leading the way.
Premium drill pipe coil tubing electric line slick line well test cementing stimulation and completion tools are all deployed overseas and constitute what I would consider to be consistent and stable revenue.
The approach we’ve taken to international expansion doesn’t just sound good it’s yielded results.
Those businesses I just highlighted grew from approximately $70 million in revenue in 2010 to a bit more than $250 million in revenue in 2013 and over $330 million in revenue in 2014.
We’re going about this the right way.
The business we’re pursuing is additive and will continue to balance our larger US land and Gulf of Mexico operations.
Before turning the call over to Robert who will provide more detail I believe it’s very important for listeners to understand our perspective on the business.
This perspective can be demonstrated by highlighting the tremendous cash generation of Superior Energy Services in 2014.
We generated record free cash flow our net cash from operations less our capital expenditures of almost $417 million and finished the year with approximately $1 billion in liquidity.
If you’re in this business long enough you’ll go through down cycles like the one we’re in.
Our team has been through periods similar to this before and we will manage the business based on the reality of the marketplace which should be clear is that we are uniquely positioned to weather this environment without changing our strategy or compromising our businesses our customers or the safety of our people.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Robert.
As I review each operating segment I’ll make comparisons to the third quarter 2014.
Drilling products and services segments revenue and income from operations remain flat at $239 million and $78 million respectively.
US land revenue increased 3% to $88 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 3% to $92 million due to increase rentals associated with deep water projects across all product lines including bottom pole assemblies accommodation and premiums and drill pipes.
International revenue decreased 8% to $59 million primarily due to decreased rentals of premium drill pipe in the North Sea and a follow up from a strong quarter in Trinidad for our accommodations business.
In the onshore completion and work over services segment revenue remained flat at $469 million while income from operations decreased to $41 million.
While our pressure pumping business was slightly impacted by the write off of some old pumping equipment the majority of the decrease in income quarter-over-quarter was a result of insurance related cost associated with our well servicing rigs business.
Our production services revenue decreased 2% to $342 million and operating income decreased to $10 million.
US land revenue remained flat at $224 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased to $28 million primarily due to seasonality and declining activity on the shelf.
International revenue increase 4% to $90 million primarily due to higher demand for work over and snubbing [indiscernible] in Latin America and Thailand.
Operating income in production services was primarily impacted by the weather and activity declines in the Gulf of Mexico was well as restructuring charges in Mexico.
In the technical solutions segment revenue was $129 million a 14% decrease from the third quarter.
Operating income declined to $14 million.
US land revenue decreased 26% to $24 million primarily related to well control services and sales of completion tools that did not repeat during the fourth quarter as well as seasonal and weather related drags on activity.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 13% to $73 million.
International revenue decreased 6% to $32 million primarily due to decreased well control services in Southeast Asia.
Operating income in technical services was lower primarily from decreased well control activity and decommissioning activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Partially offsetting these decreases was a positive adjustment to DD&amp;A associated with our oil and gas properties.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity we ended the year with debt to EBITDA of 1.4 times and debt to capital of 28.8%.
Our total debt at year end was about $1.6 billion.
The company had record free cash flow of about $417 million after capital expenditures for the year of $616 million.
In addition as part of our continuous portfolio optimization process sales of assets in our sub C construction business generated proceeds of approximately $150 million in the fourth quarter.
We expect to finalize the sales of the remaining assets in the first half of 2015.
In the fourth quarter the company repurchased 4.4 million shares for about $114 million.
For the year the company repurchased 10.2 million shares for a total purchase price of $300 million.
During the fourth quarter our board of directors replaced the previous buy back authorization with a new one for $500 million and extended it for two years.
We also paid dividends of approximately $50 million during 2014.
At the end of the year we increased our cash balance to nearly $400 million which along with our $600 million undrawn revolving line of credit provides the company with about $1 billion of liquidity.
Superior Energy has no debt scheduled to mature before our credit facility matures in February of 2017 after that $500 million of our senior notes mature in 2019 with the remaining $800 million of senior notes maturing in 2021.
During the fourth quarter our credit rating which was already rated as investment grade by S&amp;P was upgraded to investment grade by Moodys.
From a modeling perspective in the first quarter 2015 we believe G&amp;A expense should decrease quarter-over-quarter and be between $155 million and $165 million.
G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter was a bit above the upper range of our guidance of $161 million as a result of several categories including severance bad debt expenses and various asset disposals.
With respect to DD&amp;A we believe a range of $160 million to $165 million in the first quarter of 2015 reflects an appropriate level of expense.
Fourth quarter DD&amp;A expenses were down from the lower end of our guidance of $173 million primarily as a result of lower production and year end revisions to reserve estimates in our oil and gas operations.
We also had lower depreciation as a result of lower overall capital expenditures.
First quarter 2015 interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
On the strengthening of the US dollar we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $5.6 million reflected in other expense driven largely by our operations in Mexico and Brazil.
Our effective income tax was 35% in the quarter which included an adjustment to bring the annual effective income tax rate for 2014 to 36.5%.
We are using a 37% rate to model 2015.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
It is extremely difficult to predict the pace of change or predict when we reach the bottom of any down cycle.
We don’t control that but we do control how we respond to the cycle.
Our leaders managers and field staff are veterans who didn’t want for a phone call from headquarters to reduce costs rationalize facilities and prioritize their spending needs.
This is a tough time for our business but we are confident in our ability to position our business for success.
Historically we haven’t given much color on our hydraulic fracturing business but today discussion of that business and a few other examples will provide some insight into how we are managing for the future.
Our hydraulic fracturing business performed exceptionally well during 2014 as we achieved record revenue and profitability levels in the second half of the year.
We have a small customer base in fracturing but none the less were successful in diversifying the customer base over the course of the past 18 months.
As we have previously discussed our strategy in the US fracturing market has been to build a business to service the most efficient horizontal well factory operators and over the past few years more customers are fitting that criteria.
Why do we favor these clients? It’s all about driving dependable utilization to our business.
Our approach to the horizontal frac business has been to be proppant in the formation as efficient and rapidly as possible.
While we very much own the pumping services we give our customers latitude and flexibility to vertically integrate and supply their own proppant or chemicals or other products that they think fits them.
We haven’t built our business on deriving a profit on pass through items.
We have a unique equipment design that allows us to optimize maintenance in the field thus avoiding efficiency robbing equipment breakdowns.
We initiated a maintenance capital rebuild program three years ago that has allowed us to keep reliable equipment onsite and we’ll continue that rebuild effort in 2015 and beyond.
Most importantly we have leadership in the business that understands our approach and is constantly looking for ways to improve the high level of customer service and reliable execution that our customers have come to depend on.
Although we don’t break our fracturing results out separately what I can tell you is that the profitability levels that we have achieved in the business driven mainly by higher utilization and activating horsepower that was idle entering 2014 puts us in a position where we are able to respond to pricing demands in the current market environment and preserve our market share.
We will be working for the same clients as we serviced in 2014 clearly with fewer fleets but still operating 24/7.
We may get opportunities with new customers during 2015 as there are clearly more efficient horizontal well factory customers emerging all the time.
As we reached the peak during the recently ended cycle we were working about a half million horsepower.
Some of that horsepower will be parked in 2015.
In addition we have about 100 000 hydraulic horsepower that’s available or awaiting rebuild some of which will be rebuilt in 2015 as part of our maintenance capital program.
This market will improve.
When it does we will have high quality assets to put to work and we are confident that we will have even more clients that seek the high quality execution reliability and flexibility that our specialty horizontal frac business offers in the market.
In short 2014 has proven to me that this business model is scalable.
Internationally it’s a similar story.
We made great progress during 2014 in establishing an international footprint and furthering our core growth strategy of international expansion despite the headwinds that we along with the rest of the industry have faced in Mexico.
In Argentina revenues increased due to the additions to premium drill pipe and coral tubing to our product offering.
Revenues grew in Brazil on increased rental tool revenue with a new landing [string] contract.
We also realized growth in pressure pumping in Brazil.
We closed our acquisition in India where we see growth in 2015 after delivery of coral tubing and stimulation assets from our existing US fleet.
In Indonesia the expansion of our completion tool business led us to greater than two-fold increase in revenue.
We’ve now introduced seven inch and nine and five inch multi zone single trip systems in the market there and continue to develop the MST technology which will include a 7 5/8ths MST system for a Gulf of Mexico client.
We’ve been prudent some say conservative with cash and I say that we have and will continue to seek the best way to invest capital on behalf of our shareholders.
For 2015 we will reduce our capital expenditures by at least 35% from 2014 levels.
The 2015 spend will be comprised of primarily maintenance capital with some capital allocated towards international growth.
We expect that in 2015 we will generate free cash flow and believe our balance sheet strength and liquidity present opportunities to more rapidly advance our core strategy.
Superior Energy is uniquely positioned and extremely strong heading into what appears to be a tough market.
Our ample liquidity position and low debt levels are a tremendous strength of this company.
We’ve been very straightforward in explaining our intended use of free cash since 2013.
First we paid down debt next we began to repurchase stock and then we issued a dividend.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 we halted our share buyback activity.
We believe there are very interesting perhaps transformative opportunities that may develop in 2015 and until we understand the full range of those opportunities we’ve elected to build cash.
We’re operating in interesting times.
Our leadership and employees have worked through downturns in the past.
We know where we need to get our cost structure how important the quality of our products and services are to our customers and how important it is to keep our sites on our longer range objectives.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We’ll open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jim Wicklund – Credit Suisse.
On a recent tender in the Permian we heard there were 37 companies bidding.
We all know how many private equity pressure pumping companies have started out there in the last couple of years.
I appreciate that you have a very small customer list but I’m just curious you’ve got a lot of people out there I would expect trying to survive and competing against people who are trying to survive.
Can you talk to us about how that looks in the industry? There are a lot of people out there trying to survive and I’m sure there are going to be a lot of people who don’t survive if we stay in the kind of oil price environment that we’re in.
I mean it’s clear that our customers have taken the opportunity in the market to high grade their suppliers and as I said in our comments specifically in the fracturing business we’ll see our market share hold during the course of the year.
Obviously a lower market obviously lower revenue but we’re working for the same customers and we’re preserving our share with those customers so it’s not that those customers are necessarily using as many suppliers in 2015.
I’m sure there are some of the suppliers that are sitting on the sidelines now probably amongst those 37 companies that are trying to bid in the spot market in the Permian basin.
My follow up if I could can you catch us up on what’s happened in the boat business in Southeast Asia and if you mentioned that I apologize? We’re a little bit more than half way through our asset sales in that business.
We tried to sell the business in total I talked about that on our Q3 call and couldn’t find a buyer that we felt like offered a fair valuation so we’ve been in process of selling the assets in that business since about September I guess and that’s the majority of the $150 million that we generated in asset sales.
Assets that were converted to cash during the course of the quarter came from that Southeast Asia boat business.
We’ve still got some of the assets that are out on the market and as Robert commented we think we’ll be completed with that during the first half of 2015.
Your next question comes from Marshall Adkins – Raymond James.
Thanks for the color on the frac side but I wanted to get in a little bit more detail there.
I mean obviously this pull back is unprecedented in our lifetime in terms of the magnitude and how quickly it’s happened.
Help us understand how we should think about that completion business from a pricing and margin perspective near term.
I know it’s not where the ultimate bottom is but it seems like it’s bottoming faster or the pull back is occurring faster and we probably bottom faster.
Is that fair and help us with the magnitude of what we should look for there? I guess that’s fair.
I mean I’m watching the rig count fall every week as you guys are and the pace has been a bit surprising I guess so where it bottoms I guess just depends on whether or not the pace that we’ve seen the decline in the last three weeks continues for the next several weeks.
But I think it’s probably fair to think about the activity hitting bottom maybe it’s sometime late March or maybe it’s in April but I think it’s sooner rather than later for sure.
My comment about pricing would be this those companies that were at a better margin point in certain product lines clearly have the ability to hold their market share better than those companies that were starting at a very low margin point.
This business particularly in fracturing I think has been characterized by the haves and have not during 2014 from a margin standpoint.
I said before we don’t break it out for you so you don’t see it but I am able to see what other people produce from a margin standpoint and where we sit is in a pretty good position.
What I mean by all that is that that gives us the ability to respond in the marketplace when the customers are demanding some price concessions.
We’ve been able to do that and preserve market share whereas some other guys are not going to be able to preserve their market share because they’re going to be cash negative at the kind of prices that exist in the market.
Does that make sense? So basically you have a little more wiggle room thereon frac.
Switching gears on the second question to the drilling products.
The rental tool business typically margins hold up way better than most areas in downturns.
Do you expect it to play out that way this time? Yeah I do.
But make no mistake when you get into a cycle like this similar to the cycle I guess that we saw in 2008/2009 from a magnitude standpoint – I mean you’ll see pressure in the rental tool product line.
Part of what buffers it though is it starts at a margin level that is significantly higher than anything else that we have and so when you reach a bottom in that market due to both lower utilization as well as a bit lower price it’s still on an absolute margin level it’s still pretty good.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spittel – Clarkson Capital Markets.
Maybe if we could follow up on Marshall’s line of questioning Dave about the premium end of the drill pipe business.
Can you help us segregate some of the moving parts between the Gulf of Mexico where it looks like maybe we’re flattish in terms of the rig count outlook and we’ve got some newer rigs coming in versus what’s going on in the onshore markets in the US? We’ve got a fairly even split of revenue in premium drill pipe between US land and offshore.
Offshore may be slightly bigger – I mean Gulf of Mexico might be slightly bigger.
I think what you’ve got to do though is draw that distinction in the Gulf of Mexico.
As we commented in our prepared remarks the shelf is not good.
Activity in the shelf is down it’s been down it’s hard for me to see what really drives that back up in the near term.
Deep water appears to be fairly stable for at least the first half of 2015.
Visibility is not quite as good when we get out to the second half of year.
It does hold up better than the US land market but I certainly don’t want to leave you with the impression that we think it’s going to be a perfect market all year.
Then maybe a big picture question.
You reference some of the core business lines to your building the international expansion strategy around – when you think about how you want the business to evolve over the next couple of years is it a matter of maybe streamlining or divesting some of these more non-core assets? Do you simply devote a disproportionate amount of growth cap ex at those core businesses or is it a really all of the above strategy? That’s a great question I’m really glad that you asked it.
When we think about those core product lines that I mentioned which were drill pipe well test electric line slick line coil tubing coral tubing cementing stimulation and completion tools what’s important about those product lines is their revenue is sticky.
Once you’ve started up those service lines in a country a market in that company may go up and it may go down but there’s day-to-day revenue in each of those product lines.
That’s different from some of the other things that we do.
You think about well control well control is not one of those product or services lines that is going to have sticky revenue it’s going to be lumpy.
They’ll be in there doing a project for a two or three month period and it might go away for six months.
The snubbing business is very similar to that we may be in a snubbing project for a country for a year and then may not go back for two years after that.
It’s not that those product lines are not important to us they are and those are not the kinds of product lines at all that we’d be interesting in divesting.
Instead what we want to do is build long term sticky revenue with those products that I mentioned and then allow things like well control and snubbing and bottom hole assemblies to come to the market when the market is available.
Just to clarify the kinds of things that we have divested and the kinds of things that we will look towards in the future for divestiture are those things that we either think we don’t do a very good job of managing <i>i.e.
</i>Hallin Marine or those things that we think don’t offer us a long term opportunity to improve returns.
Your next question comes from Robin Shoemaker – Keybanc Capital.
You got our attention with your comment about the downturn perhaps creating some transformational opportunities for Superior so I was wondering if what you have in mind here is perhaps acquiring some distressed assets at very low prices or whether you have in mind this big merger that’s about to happen and some divestitures that may come out of that? Just kind of generally what you had in mind and the kind of valuations where you think you might acquire something like that? I don’t know what the range of opportunities will be for us in 2015 I really don’t.
Any of those things that you mentioned could be opportunities for the company and when we reached about a half way point in the fourth quarter and you guys know we’ve been really – our primary deployment of cash and excess of cap ex and M&amp;A in the last few years has been to buy back shares and we reached that halfway point through the fourth quarter and decided just to shut off the share repurchase allow cash to build until we saw what that full range of opportunities may be in 2015.
What I’ve consistently said to people about this it that I really want to understand what the full range of opportunities are so don’t look for us to swing at the first pitch.
We’re going to let the opportunities build and then we’ll go understand them and if we see that full range of opportunities and we think the prices are still too high or the fit is not perfect for us or they’re not additive to our core strategies we may pass on every one of them and then turn around and buy back more shares later on in the year.
It’s a matter of waiting to understand that full range of opportunities before we deploy our cash.
Just on the international side here where you’ve been steadily making progress over the year it looks like this big merger is about to really change the competitive landscape in the international markets and we can see some markets becoming much less competitive than they are today.
So just in terms of your product lines your business what if any kind of real opportunities could you picture coming out of that say in 2016 and beyond? The biggest difference between the international markets and the US market is competition and competitive level.
There are fewer competitors in every international market that exist not just that we participate in but every international market that exists there are fewer competitors than what we see in the US.
There are certain of those countries out there where really the markets are completely satisfied with three or four large integrated oil field services companies.
The fact that one of those is going away clearly presents an opportunity for us to advance the strategy that has been in place for the last five years to achieve international geographic expansion.
Listen competitive landscape being cleared out of a single large competitor is obviously a big advantage for us.
Your next question comes from Blake Hutchinson – Howard Weil.
The first question if we go back to kind of your third quarter thoughts with regard to the potential for international growth with the smattering of contracts awarded in Latin America and India I think there’s a pretty good feeling that ’15 over ’14 might look like a 20% number kind of a reacceleration of growth.
As you think through this with the landscape obviously having changed and probably the growth rates of maybe some of your legacy oriented markets having changed what should be the message we take away from this call in terms of your international growth profile? I think we’d probably all be happy to hear that there’s any growth but try to kind of ballpark your new thoughts on that maybe? I think that what we had hoped for in the way of international growth in 2015 disappeared quite a bit after our call when November and December occurred and oil prices bottomed to where they are now.
Listen I think it would probably bit a bit aggressive to think that we actually have international growth next year in an international market environment that is going to be down by as much as 15% 10% to 15% pick your range.
I think that we will see some growth in some of those core countries that I mention and some of those product lines that I mentioned but what offsets that is the headwinds that we’ll have in the North Sea which is a legacy market for us the headwinds we’ll have in Mexico which has been down the last two years and will probably down even more next year so you’ve got some big markets that are not necessarily the focus of our near term investment but nonetheless are part of our international revenue base that will probably cause international revenue to be pressured next year.
So what does pressure mean? I don’t know that’s probably anywhere between in total being flat to be down by as much as 10%.
I want to understand the competitive landscape out there US DPS business.
I don’t think we pulled back enough to see this happen in the last kind of mini downturn but is there the potential with this sizeable pull back that the drillers themselves are actually sitting on inventory that become competitive with kind of the rental market or have the drillers just gotten so far away from owning any pipe or pipe of a competitive nature that that’s not an issue? I don’t know that we’ve witness any drilling contractor as a competitive for pipe rental.
Either out on the market or just dipping into held in inventories.
Neither one.
I don’t think we’ve seen either one of those at this point.
Your next question comes from Kurt Hallead – RBC Capital Markets.
I just was kind of curious when you look at maybe some of the dynamics around pricing pressures and maybe comparing them to prior cycle periods how do you envision that falling out and how do you envision it may be on a broad basis across your different business segments? Pricing pressure has been significant.
Absolute variance of the pressure is extreme it varies from product line it varies by geography but it’s been significant and consistent.
Any range of magnitudes and anything surprising you? It is varied so much by product line and geography that I don’t know that there’s a conclusion I want to try and lead you to.
You’ve heard pricing commentary from some of the other guys that are out there I don’t know that mine would be any different.
It’s one of those deals when it’s all said and done you’ll kind of know what it was but it’s very difficult to understand impact as it’s happening.
Can you talk about the prospect of using cash for M&amp;A and then specifically [indiscernible] bit more detail on or some commentary about the scalability of your frac business.
I guess in that segment in particular it really comes down to a build versus buy decision and how are you approaching it and how are you thinking about that? You’re exactly right it does come down to a build versus buy decision.
One of the challenges with distressed fracturing companies that will be out there in their assets is that we know those assets require a maintenance capital investment that is equivalent to about 50% of their original value within about five years.
So you think about distressed fracturing assets that may come on the market and would you be willing to pay $0.50 on the dollar to those and the answer is probably no.
Because I know I’m going to have to make an equivalent investment just to put those assets in working condition over the course of the first year or two that you own them.
It just depends on what happens to owners or banks’ expectations as we go forward.
If those owners or banks have an expectation of capturing anything close to 75% or 80% of asset value then we’re probably not a good company to call.
But if they fall into a range that’s significantly lower than that then it may be something that we entertain.
Your next question comes from the line of John Daniel – Simmons &amp; Company.
This might sound like an offensive question so I apologize in advance but you mentioned record revenue and margins or profits at least in the second half for the frac business.
As we look then at the results of the entire segment does that mean the results for the work over and trucking business were particular bad in the second half and then what’s the outlook for those segments? The answer is no.
We did have as Robert mentioned in his comment we had some insurance cost that impacted the well service rig business negatively during the course of the fourth quarter but the water business is actually usually a little better in Q4 than it is in Q3 because we get the benefit of heating revenue.
Overall I’d say revenue wise it was about flat though so not a lot of change on the top line in the fluid business and service rig business.
Also the fracturing business.
I mean our commentary the fracturing business really didn’t change a lot from Q3 to Q4 either.
You may get a better look if you look at it year-over-year.
You guys didn’t break out the segment gross margins this quarter.
Is that something you’re suspending or will that be point in 10K/10Q filings going forward? It’s suspended.
We don’t show that breakout anywhere in our financial statements.
It was something that we didn’t think was necessary anymore.
You can grab it from any of our filings.
It’s still in our filings.
The information is there.
It will be in the filings? The ability to get the information to get the gross margins will be in the filings to be specific.
Just one follow on and you kind of answered this with Kurt’s question but I just want to ask you but you guys because of your own equipment design for the frac equipment just by having your own design does that limit any desire to buy someone else’s stuff? Just what is the process of converting a Surefire or Stewart &amp; Stevenson or NOV design unit to what you guys have? Really it’s a difference in a trailer.
The engine transmission and pump are all basically the same.
We do have a different trailer design.
We designed those units so that there’s space between the engine transmission and pump so that we can carry out a bit higher degree of maintenance on site.
But think about that the primary investment that goes into a fracturing trailer is the engine transmission and pump.
So that’s not a gating item here? Well it’s not a gating item but at a value right.
There’s a cost of a new trailer there’s a cost of new controls that go on that unit that you’d need to invest for it to be able to communicate with everything else that you have.
I just think you have to factor it in total what you’d be willing to pay for somebody else’s assets.
Kind of my point would you be willing to pay $0.50 on a dollar? Probably not it’s got to be something less than that to accommodate those other factors and to entice me.
We’re going to have fracturing equipment that is parked on the fence during 2015.
Do I want to buy somebody else’s that’s going to be parked on the fence? I’ve got to be enticed to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Sill – Global Hunter Securities.
The world has definitely changed both in North America and internationally with the drop in commodity prices.
I was wondering how a $50 to $70 oil world impacts where and what kind of international growth you’re looking at versus where we were six months ago when oil was $100 and it all looked good? Our overall thoughts on top line growth for international clearly changed.
As I commented before if you had asked me six months ago what I thought about our prospects for 2015 I would have told you that we could see international growth in ’15 versus ’14 of 15% to 20%.
Clearly the drop in commodity prices change our overall thought of that top line growth.
What has not changed is our thought about the core countries that we’ve been focusing for investment and we’ve been telling you guys about how we think about the international landscape for the last several years.
We use this definition of core countries which for us includes Argentina Brazil Columbia Indonesia India Malaysia Australia and Saudi Arabia those are the places we’ve focused investment those are the places we still feel good about growth even in the type of oil price environment that we’re in.
They’re all large mature markets.
They may not be growing the same way they were last year but they’re all large and mature markets that will continue to have significant levels of activity.
I guess as a follow on to that obviously Argentina has got a shale play which makes it similar if they actually get the governor out of the way and go to manufacturing.
Australia possibly I’m not so sure about Brazil Indonesia and then Saudi Arabia obviously has the cheapest oil in the world so I guess your view is that with lower oil prices these guys are all still competitive and there’s really not that many other places where you could go where the whole shale manufacturing concept would be transferrable? It’s not all around shale and you won’t find a bigger believer in the opportunities for global shale than me I’m just not sure that they all happen in my lifetime.
But as Argentina is a good example Argentina does clearly have what appears to be a very interesting shale in Vaca Muerta.
But I’ll tell you this the activity in the Argentine shale last year was minimal and yet there were in excess of 100 rigs that were working in the market so I mean it’s a big market.
The Neuquen basin as well as northern Argentina and southern Argentina are places that we’ve been developing hydrocarbon as an industry for 50 years.
So even without the shale Argentina is an interesting market.
Your next question comes from Matthew Marietta – Stephens Inc.
I wanted to hit on the production services businesses.
There seems to be a degree of optimism out there in the well service rig business primarily but as you look across the production service offerings in markets the variety of equipment what’s your outlook there and can you help us maybe differentiate different trends across these different sub segments or offerings? Yes sure.
Specifically in production services the largest product line is coiled tubing.
The US coil tubing business has not been in a very good position for the last couple of years and it’s not going to be in a very good position in 2015.
We’ve stacked assets in that business over the course of the last couple of years and I’m sure we’re going to stack more assets during 2015.
Coiled tubing in the US has become a completion oriented business.
Outside of the US it’s still a production maintenance operation.
But listen most of our coil tubing assets are in the US.
Most of the other product lines that are in that segment are related to production maintenance and so anything that’s production maintenance oriented those dollars and spend from our customers will be down next year but they’re probably not down as much as drilling and completion spend.
I think you can say the same thing about well service rigs.
I mean the majority of revenue that we generate on a well service rig is in our production oriented activity.
It’s not that they’re not down next year they will be but is it likely to hold up better than something that’s specifically related to a drilling rig or a completions job? The answer is yes it will hold up better.
Are you experiencing any input cost deflation yet across any of the different business segments or any deflationary pressures on new equipment orders and do you foresee that happening which may make new build organic growth more attractive versus acquisitions and what’s your sense on that side? I don’t know that we have a whole lot of new build orders that are out there.
Most of the money that we’re spending right now from a capital standpoint is in the area of maintenance.
But I don’t really expect that our capital suppliers are going to be willing to offer up the same kinds of price concessions that we’re giving to our customers in that so much of what we buy out there related to building equipment is steal.
Although I think it’s conceivable that over time we see steel prices come down we have not seen that as yet.
The other part of your question though our suppliers of consumables and some of the day-to-day things that we use of course we’re putting tremendous pressure on those guys to bring our costs down in the same way that our customers are putting pressure on us.
Is that going to involve looking at any potential existing contracts and reworking along those lines? I don’t know of any specifically that involve contracts but look we’re going to look to our suppliers the same way our customers look to us.
Customers are looking to companies that have contracts right now and are saying “Can you work with us?” I’m sure we’d look at contracts with suppliers the same way.
Your next question comes from Daniel Burke – Johnson &amp; Rice.
When you look at that core group of pumping customers that you have do you have a sense for whether their trend and completion spend this year will hold up better than industry trend or will it be about the same or worse just as we try and think about what it pretenses for your activity level.
I don’t know I think you’re probably right in the middle of the pack.
Some of them will probably be a little bit more and some of them will be a little bit less but I would not think of that customer base as necessarily protecting us from the overall market down turn.
One thing we have witnessed from that group of customers is that they do not seem to be decreasing their completion intensity in order to drive a better cost to what they’re doing.
We’re still seeing the same numbers of stages the same lateral link and he same profit volumes per well.
As a follow up maybe excluding pumping we talked about that and excluding the DPS business and the US onshore market just to put a finer point on it the other businesses within C&amp;W production services and US land how easy will it be to hold margins above cash breakeven levels looking towards Q2/Q3 this year? A lot of it depends on the product line and the geographic area because that’s really dictating a lot who is seeing the most price pressure right.
Clearly as utilization levels are down you can control your costs by parking equipment.
In some of those product lines we’re going to have greater latitude to maintain our share because the margins are higher.
In some of the product lines where margins are very low that’s not going to be something we can do.
The way I think about it is if you start at a low margin point you’re probably going to wind up with lower market share.
If you started at a higher margin point then you’re probably going to be able to hold you market share and maybe gain.
There’s a lot of variance between the overall product lines that we have.
I think in general though the way I think about this is that the quality of service we provide is at a higher end as I think about the full range of competitors that are out there so we have seen a lot of cases where we wind up being the winner from a utilization standpoint when customers are dropping the number of suppliers that they have providing any particular service.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine – Imperial Capital LLC.
I can appreciate you said it’s kind of early to make distinct definitive calls regarding pricing across service lines this early but I would ask you does anything surprise you with regard to what you’ve seen thus far during the past few months in the slow down as it relates to the US onshore market or anything you think investors would find surprising in terms of the market’s response in the last few months? I don’t know that you’d find it surprising at this point because I think it’s been discussed by others.
But the suddenness and magnitude of the ask from the customer on the pricing side was – it happened very rapidly.
This was not a slow dance that drug out through negotiations over a period of three or four months.
It was a sudden ask and a sudden request for response probably more so than I’ve seen at any other point in my career.
In December and the early part of January this was happening where every day just felt very volatile from a customer ask standpoint.
I don’t know that I’ve seen it quite like that in the past.
Just a quick follow up on the Gulf of Mexico your comments at the outset there if you could remind us what portion of your business is tied to call it the shallow water versus deep if possible? Do your comments – are you just looking to highlight a secular trend you’ve seen evolve or is that pretend any type of strategic action on your part? I don’t think it pretends any strategic action on our part.
We’ve taken strategic action in the shelf over the course of the last few years.
You may recall we sold our lift boat business in 2012 which was a big part of our revenue base on the shelf.
The product lines that we generate revenue from today on the shelf include things that are end of life such as plug and abandonment or production maintenance for the most part.
We do have a bit of drilling products and services exposure when there’s drilling taking place and we’ve got a bit of completions but I’d say the bulk of our revenue on the shelf has been things like coiled tubing case toll wire lines slick line and snubbing and so production and production maintenance oriented type of activities.
Overall of our total Gulf of Mexico revenue mix historically the shelf has represented kind of 60% to 70% of the overall revenue mix.
I can tell you in the second half of 2014 it was probably less than half and so the deep water revenue has actually been growing and you can see that on our drilling and products service revenue from 2013 to 2014 which was actually up despite the fact that the shelf was down.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Darren Gacicia – Guggenheim Securities LLC.
I was curious to hear that you said services [indiscernible] tend to be per well it stayed kind of constant.
When you talk to clients with a focus on well cost is that really the focus of their discussion in terms of what they’re trying to do? Are they mainly trying to get that cost down just in pricing or is the margin you think that there could be a change in service intensity per well as they maybe kind of figure out different ways of doing things? I think it’s more the latter.
Clearly they’re looking for pricing concessions there’s no question about that and we have seen some operators that have looked to optimize from a cost standpoint in proppant and find ways to get the lowest cost proppant that they can.
But the total volumes the total length of lateral the total number of stages we’ve not seen any of our customers make changes.
Please keep in mind in our fracturing business we’ve got a fairly short customer list and they tend to be the companies that are already the more efficient horizontal well operators and they also tend to be customers that have maybe better balance sheets.
Sort of unrelated I noticed the drill pipe rentals internationally were down.
I know people have kind of poked around the topic.
When I think about looking at this year and you kind of maybe looking at your visibility in the rental business can you give me a little sense of what that visibility is and maybe kind of how the shape of the quarters come about? We were down a little bit in Q4 on the rental side in the North Sea which is kind of a legacy market for us.
I think overall that our international rental tools will see the same kind of pressure that we see in the overall international market next year.
We do lean a little bit more towards offshore in that business than we do land and so whatever your thoughts are on international offshore rig count during the year our drilling products and services business change will probably be a reflection of that.
It seems like budgets are still kind of influx.
If you looked at your visibility last year versus this year would you say it’s a lot less or a little bit less or about the same as you kind of went and looked out? I can make this universal comment there is no question that visibility this year is more difficult than last year no question.
You guys see the rig count it is very difficult to get good vision.
It’s been very difficult.
Getting a little bit better as we speak in the latter half in February to have an understanding what our customer plans are but you guys saw the headlines during the month of January and early February every day our customers were lowering budgets.
Every day they were lowering expectations and so it’s been very difficult to make a good prediction for what the total year looks like.
We get a lot better information out of the public company guys in the US than we do internationally.
Internationally that information is even harder to understand.
So there’s no comparison.
Your next question comes from Matthew Marietta – Stephens Inc.
Earlier you hit on acquisitions from a general strategy perspective.
Are there any specific prior examples of acquisitions that may highlight what would and what wouldn’t make sense or criteria that must be met as you go down that road? We’ve done all kinds of acquisitions.
The ones that we’ve done over the last few years have been mainly these kind of focused targeted individual country international acquisitions that have helped us to kind of accelerate to build out a footprint like the one we did in Argentina.
I think it’s about five in total we’ve done over the last three years in these international markets like the one in India that we closed back in the second half of 2014.
We did a pretty good helpful acquisition in 2010 out of a Department of Justice mandated asset sale that put us in the completions business that’s been very successful for us and of course what we bought was a US business that we’ve been able to successfully expand into international markets in the last several years.
Listen I don’t know what’s out there in 2015.
It could be any one of those things or something that I’m not even thinking about.
That’s the whole idea of preserving cash we’ll wait to understand what the opportunities are and then make some decisions.
Your next question comes from B.
Chase Mulvehill – SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the 24 hour market for pumping.
What percentage of US horsepower as an industry do you think is doing 24 hour work? That’s a great question.
I have no idea.
I know that for the customers we’re working for we’re working 24/7 with ever frac fleet that we have and at this point we expect that to continue throughout the year.
When we saw the slowdown in spending in 2012 we had a lot of operators that deliberately slowed down and deliberately gave up efficiency by going from seven to five days and I don’t think that’s a driver in this market today.
They’re ratcheting back their spending but what they spend they want to drive 100% efficiency from.
At least what I see in our customers but I’m sure there’s some people out there that are working five days.
Not everybody has been working 24/7 in 2014 but I have no idea what the mix in the market would be.
I imagine doing 24 hour work requires basically to have your supply chain in order and so some of these smaller players can’t compete right for 24 hour work right? Is that a fair assumption? I think that for a lot of reasons we built our fracturing business around horizontal wells and around 24 hour operations and a lot of our competitors did not.
Clearly the smaller guys that don’t have the type of efficiency and intelligence built into their supply chain would struggle to do that.
Are you seeing any bundling for 24 hour services? If so what service are you bundling? I don’t know that I’ve heard of any specific bundling requests here recently.
That doesn’t seem to be an immediate trend.
Wrapping up the 24 hour would you think that 24 hour work would be down in line with the overall market declines or would it be down less? No I think it’s down in line.
It’s a function of where or not the operator has done the things that they need to do in their organization to provide supply chain for 24 hour operations and so those that have that capability I’m sure will continue to run 24/7 albeit with less overall spend and fewer rigs and fewer frac plates.
What I’m hearing is 24 hour work will be down in line with the market but it sounds like you have less competition when you’re bidding on that work because the small players cannot really bid on it.
Is that fair? I think that’s fair and for the customers we’re working for it’s not like we’re out there bidding every day.
These are customers we reach our negotiations with and then move forward and they’re not looking to change.
The last one decrementals can you talk to decrementals for DPS onshore completion and production services just maybe for 1Q or you can talk for 2015 whichever one you would like to? Listen I talked a lot about the confidence we have in our managers and our managers have been and will continue to be responsive to reducing our cost structure as revenue and pricing contract.
My expectation is that the leadership we have in the field is going to allow us to produce decrementals that are in line or better from what you see from industry.
Industry being [Halbert] and [indiscernible] those guys for North America and international or industry being – Yes sure the collective industry everybody that is out there competitors.
This concludes today’s question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing remarks.
That’s all we’ve got.
Thanks for joining us today.
This does conclude todays’ teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.