Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services’ Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today’s conference call.
With me today are Superior’s President and CEO Dave Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business management’s plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Okay.
Thank you Paul and welcome to everyone listening to our call this morning.
I’ll review second quarter activity.
Robert will discuss segment results.
And I’ll share some color on our outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the second quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $711 million adjusted EBITDA of $116 million and an adjusted loss for continuing operations of $47 million or a loss of $0.31 per share after excluding special items.
During the quarter customer spending and activity levels continued the downward trajectory established the first quarter of this year.
Hardest hit were the U.S.
land markets which experienced a 35% decline in average rig count during the quarter.
We continued to experience pricing pressure due to overcapacity throughout our businesses during the quarter.
Despite major initiatives to reduce costs throughout our system it has been difficult to match the reductions and activity we’ve seen in real time.
This is contributing to compress margins and weakening financial performance.
With that said I’m proud of the effort our organization has put forth so far in reducing costs.
I expect that we will continue to improve our margins over time through our relentless drive to make the company more efficient.
G&amp;A has been reduced below where we expected even 90 days ago and is now tracking between 10% and 15% below our 2014 run rate.
We’ve reduced our headcount by over 3 400 positions a 24% reduction of our work force as of the end of Q4 2014.
Across our U.S.
land businesses where a significant portion of our workforce is located we’ve reduced cost per employee by approximately 20% since the end of 2014.
Reducing cost is an iterative process in response to external conditions and it isn’t easy.
The people tasked with making these cuts have done a tremendous job and approaching this downturn head on.
Strategically we remain focused as ever on geographic diversification.
Versus the first quarter U.S.
land revenue decreased 34% and Gulf of Mexico revenue declined by 12% this quarter.
These decreases were partially offset by international revenue which increased by 8% contributing to a total company revenue drop of 23%.
This underscores our critical international expansion is today and will be to investors as we continue to grow our business.
We also maintained market share with key customers particularly in our horizontal well fracturing business.
Our activity is concentrated in the Eagle Ford and Permian basins although we continue to run fleets in the Bakken and Marcellus basins as well.
Most of our fleets are operating on 24/7 schedules.
We have about one-third of our fracturing capacity stacked and continue our maintenance capital program as units reach maximum hours.
As we’ve discussed over the past several quarters the North American coiled tubing business is facing secular as well as cyclical challenges.
As a result of these challenges we have significantly reduced the value of our coiled tubing fleet.
We also sold our remaining coiled tubing business in Mexico and have exited Mexico as a coiled tubing service provider.
This doesn’t preclude us from operating there in the future but we just don’t see the market improving in Mexico in the near-term.
We also impaired the goodwill associated with our Production Services segment where our coiled tubing assets reside and Robert will cover these items in greater detail.
Our business is cyclical and it’s not a coincidence that we are prepared for this downturn.
We paid down debt and expanded our cash position ahead of this cycle and have continued to emphasize free cash flow during the first six months of 2015.
With a cash balance in excess of $500 million and $600 million available through our revolving credit facility we believe we are in excellent shape to withstand the downturn our industry is facing.
With cash preservation and cost reductions at the forefront we will continue to invest and maintain our strongest business lines mainly rental tools and horizontal well fracturing where we believe we have significant competitive advantages.
We’ll also allocate capital to international growth and expansion as warranted.
During the second quarter capital expenditures largely directed towards these categories for $113 million.
For the year we expect to spend no more than $400 million.
We will be positioned for a recovery despite current sentiment and these opportunities offer the best avenue to strong results when that time arrives.
Today in the third quarter oil prices are down activity and pricing are turning lower and the financial markets are weakening.
We intend to maintain our focus and believe these are the times when strategic decision making and disciplined capital allocation set a company up for top tier performance in the future.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Robert.
Thank you Dave.
As I review each operating segment the sequential comparisons in my comments have been adjusted to exclude the special items for reduction in value of assets that was disclosed in our earnings release.
Drilling Products and Services segment’s revenue decreased 26% to $149 million and adjusted income from operation decreased 60% to $19 million respectively.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 39% to $38 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 27% to $64 million.
And International revenue decreased 7% to $47 million.
Revenue decreases resulted from lower utilization as well as pressure on pricing.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue of $226 million was lower by 36% and the segment recorded an adjusted loss from operation of $44 million down from a loss from operations of $1 million in the first quarter.
Revenues were down as a result of decreased U.S.
land activity which were measured by the average U.S.
land rig count was approximately 35% lower than the first quarter.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 17% to $209 million which resulted in an adjusted loss from operations of $21 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 31% to $100 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 13% to $23 million.
And International revenue increased 6% to $86 million.
U.S.
land and Gulf of Mexico revenues were impacted by reduced customer spending levels during the quarter.
Coiled tubing electric line and pressure control tools were the business lines that exhibited the most significant revenue decline.
Internationally these service lines performed a bit better.
Coiled tubing and electric line revenues in Latin America improved and we experienced an uptick in hydraulic workover and snubbing activity leading to a higher quarter-over-quarter international revenues in this segment.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue increased 10% to $127 million resulting in income from operations of $3 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 23% to $14 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 7% to $77 million due to normal seasonal improvements in weather conditions.
International revenue increased 43% to $36 million driven primarily by increased completion tool activity in Indonesia.
Due to the project oriented nature of the segment precise forecasts are difficult but as now we expect generally lower levels of activity in revenues from this segment during the third quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.76 times and our debt to capital ratio was 33.4%.
Our total debt at quarter end was $1.6 billion.
Offsetting this debt is $500 million of cash resulting in net debt of approximately $1.1 billion.
Free cash flow of $82 million resulted from improvements in working capital capital spending discipline and continued emphasis on cost reductions.
This brings our total free cash flow through the first six months of the year to $193 million.
As noted in our press release issued yesterday we recorded a pre-tax charge of $807.6 million related to the reduction in value of assets during the second quarter.
Of this amount $232.2 million is related to the reduction in value of long lived assets primarily associated with coiled tubing operations.
As many of today’s listeners are aware the coiled tubing market in North America has been weakening primarily due to reduced natural gas development in U.S.
and increased use of substitute applications by customers as their well and completion designs have evolved.
These structural changes to the coiled tubing business have led to this reduction in value of these asset.
As a result we have exited the coiled tubing business in Mexico and significantly reduced the value of our remaining U.S.
land coiled tubing business.
In addition to the reduction of value of long lived assets we also reported a goodwill impairment in our Production Services segment of $575 million.
Goodwill is evaluated at the segment level and I would note that coiled tubing is a largest product service line within the production services segment.
There were no shares repurchased during the quarter.
Our cash balance grew by $85 million during the quarter and is now about a $0.5 billion.
We expect cash balances to continue to grow during the third quarter.
Since the end of 2014 we have made great progress in reducing overall costs.
This is clearly evident in our G&amp;A for the second quarter which at $129 million was better than expectations as the organization was more effective in executing cost reduction initiatives.
Most of the reduction in G&amp;A has resulted from reduced employee and infrastructure related expenses.
We expect G&amp;A in the third quarter to remain in the $128 million to $132 million range.
With respect to DD&amp;A we expect DD&amp;A to be in the range of $152 million to $156 million.
This estimate takes into account the reduction of DD&amp;A associated with the reduction in asset values in the second quarter.
Third quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our overall effective income tax rate in the quarter was impacted primarily by the goodwill impairment charge which is non-deductible for tax purposes.
When you adjust for special items our effective income tax rate was about 37% and we would expect this to be about the same in the third quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year given the recent weakness in oil pricing visibility is cloud at best.
The pace of rig count and activity decline slowed considerably towards the end of the second quarter.
We expect rig count and customer spending to remain relatively flat with second quarter exit rates for the rest of 2015.
In U.S.
land markets there are simply too many oilfield service competitors given current activity levels.
The amount of competition and oversupply of equipment available to service lower levels of E&amp;P spending in the second half of the year will have a persistent downward influence on pricing across most product lines.
As far as the competitive landscape is concerned competitors who are in a weaker financial position and we all will face more stress as time goes on and with that comes the potential for pricing and operational behavior which can exacerbate already weak market conditions over the near-term.
Oil and gas companies are being forced to change as well.
Operators who want to generate acceptable returns in economics have had to become more efficient and eliminate waste.
The result of this has been more operators moving toward horizontal well factory models.
We are designed to service these types of customers and will continue to benefit from their evolution.
To ensure were ready to pick up activity when these customers are we’re preserving operational capacity through investment in high margin high return businesses namely rental tools and horizontal well fracturing.
We are also stabilizing our workforce to maintain the appropriate skills necessary to support operational flexibility in key markets and product lines.
Aside from looking through the cycles to the extent we are able to we remain focused on further cost improvement during the second half of the year.
We believe we should be a profitable company given our revenue levels despite the external environment and that is driving our efforts on the cost side.
This is an iterative process as we adjust to being smaller company in the U.S.
working in a smaller market while becoming a larger company internationally.
In the end I believe that Superior Energy will be a more efficient company better positioned for the long term.
Before turning the call over for questions and given the uncertainty in the marketplace I’d like to remind listeners of several of our core philosophies.
Managing cash and allocating capital towards investment are two of the most important tasks that we undertake as a management team.
Our overarching strategy is to expand geographically and to have a greater percentage of revenue and earnings from international markets.
We believe the international results our large cap competitors reported in addition to ours this quarter demonstrate the importance of a diversified business model.
If a product or service line isn’t exportable in support of our diversification strategy if we don’t posses any execution or operational competitive advantage and if we can operate at above our cost to capital long term it won’t be part of our portfolio over the long term.
We’ve exited several businesses over the past several years in line with this philosophy and expect that to continue.
We will apply the same criteria to acquisition candidates.
Financial stability is important to us.
Generating free cash flow is a goal of our management team and is accomplished primarily by spending within our means and at levels that we can effectively manage.
We can’t fix the market on our own and until the market is more accommodating it is important for stakeholders to know that we manage this business as if we own it and keep their interests front and center.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Dave.
The margins in the Drilling Products and Services fell a little bit more than I would have thought for the quarter.
I guess I was thinking rental margins would be a little bit stickier.
Walk me through what you think is going on there.
Was there customers doing some end sourcing or was it de-stocking or was it pricing? Help us understand where the margin deterioration was? And is that -- or are we near bottom on that as well? Let me try and break this a part a little bit for you Marshall.
About 75% of our revenue in that segment comes from downhole rentals which is premium drill pipe or maybe landing strings or bottom hole assembly stabilizers.
That’s the highest margin part of that product line it’s a highest return in that segment in those two areas.
And although revenue and margins did fall in those product lines we’re still seeing EBITDA margins that are in the 50% range or a little bit better.
And so they’ve fallen from peak.
Well Q4 2014 margins in those product lines were closer to 60%.
So they’re down and the revenue is down.
I don’t know that it’s falling significantly more than what we would have expected.
The other 25% of the revenue in that segment comes from other things and the biggest part of that is surface accommodations.
The surface accommodation actually had characteristics that cause it to look a lot more like a U.S.
land service business and the margins in that product line have fallen precipitously in the similar fashion that we’ve seen in some of the more commodity based service businesses that we have in the U.S.
And that’s really where I think most of the downfall we’ve seen in margins has come from that segment it’s in the accommodations business.
And although as I said drill pipe and bottom hole assembly revenue margins are down somewhat they are holding up better.
That makes more sense.
All right.
Do you think we stabilize there? Yes I mean I think that it depends on when your stabilization point is.
I think what everybody has got to remember about the second quarter is that the best month in the quarter was in April.
And I’ve heard some people say otherwise which causes me to scratch my head because clearly the rig count was down from April to the end of June.
I feel pretty comfortable that we’re reaching a level of stability or are closer to our level of stability based on June results.
Perfect.
Last one for me.
Competitive landscape in the pressure pumping side are we starting to see attrition? I know we have seen guys go out of business.
Give us an update on what you are seeing on the competitive landscape specifically in the pressure pumping side? I mean I know that we are seeing attrition; it’s hard to put your fingers on it in the market that still has close to 50% more capacity than what the market’s demanding.
But I am certain that people that are running some of the older triplex pumps or even some of the newer triplex pumps are probably not rebuilding those.
And so that is going to drive attrition during the course of year.
It’s really hard to see when you’ve got a market that’s as oversupplied as we are today.
It still remains very competitive in pressure pumping.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson.
Please proceed with your question.
Maybe if we could walk through -- you obviously had a successful quarter internationally some of the ingredients that contributed to that.
I would imagine obviously you’ve got some larger customers that are staying relatively busy maybe successfully redeploying some equipment and of course you’re moving into some new markets but maybe just a little incremental color on that.
It’s a little bit of everything.
Of course every country internationally has got a little different twist to it and we are not in every country but I’ll try and walk through some of the larger ones for us.
Argentina continues to be a market that’s performing well and it’s not necessarily driven today by the shell opportunity which is going to be -- I think going to be really interesting for industry over the next few years but the conventional activity in Argentina is holding up quite well.
We did add assets in Argentina in the form of drill pipe late in 2014 and we’ve been adding coiled tubing units out of the U.S.
during the course of this year.
So that’s helping us to offset declining markets in other places with some growth in Argentina.
As I think about Latin America I think the most -- the market that’s got the biggest question mark to it right now is Brazil.
And Brazil for us is certainly down from where we were last year but there may still be some downward trajectory in Brazil as a result of Petrobras spending levels.
Colombia has held up relatively well for us.
Our new entrants into India as result of acquisition last year is doing well and we do have more assets going into that market in the for coiled tubing and stimulation equipment.
We had good snubbing operations this quarter overall internationally and that’s spread around -- but probably the two areas that we saw the biggest uptick were in Thailand and Trinidad with hydraulic workover operations.
The North Sea market is down and I don’t expect to see any recovery in the North Sea this year.
Africa is kind of flat Saudi Arabia is kind of flat.
So overall kind of a mix in places but I would say a lot of our performance as a result of us putting new assets into some markets where we’ve established ourselves.
And maybe to follow up on Marshall’s question about the drilling products and rental tools business.
Are you seeing it as still a little bit of a differentiation between U.S.
land where things are maybe holding up better than accommodations getting hit and what’s going on in the offshore markets there? The offshore market if you’re speaking of Gulf of Mexico the market on the shelf continues to be really bad.
And deepwater has overall rig count if you look at floater rig count overall deepwater rig count has held relatively flat.
We do get into some product cycles in the Gulf of Mexico from time-to-time where our revenue tended to be a bit more levered to completion from drilling.
A lot of the deepwater rigs carry some of their own premium drill pipe and that’s not new in the market this has been the case for some time.
So it’s not unusual we get swings and sways from one quarter to the next in revenue and margins in downhole rentals in the deepwater area.
We prefer that everybody be completing at the same time.
It doesn’t always work that way.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Meakim with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
So you mentioned that your expectations for U.S.
land activity for the second half would be fairly stable.
As we’ve heard some negative data points out of the E&amp;Ps is regarding 2016 if oil prices hang in the current range.
Could you give us maybe a sense of how you see the risks to 2016 if prices hold here? Well I think that if you -- there is a couple of thoughts I have along these lines.
I mean where oil prices are today is not significantly different than where oil prices were when budgets were put together for 2015.
That being said I think most people would have probably had a bias towards those prices increasing at some point later in the year and they also entered 2015 with a better liquidity position than they have right now.
And so the E&amp;Ps today particularly the smaller and mid-size E&amp;Ps I am sure are much more concerned about what happens to their borrowing base this fall and what that leaves them with from a liquidity standpoint as they go into 2016.
So I understand and share the concern it’s a little bit difficult to see where budgets land at this point for 2016 but I mean if we’re still in a commodity price environment as we are today that’s closer to 50 than it is to 60 then I would sense that E&amp;P budgets could have a downward bias to them in 2016.
But listen I am the last guy in the world you want to talk to about commodity price prediction.
Let’s say things even continue to stabilize in ‘16 or in kind of a flattish environment if ‘16 is even roughly flattish does that force four to six quarters of flat activity is that sufficient to force meaningful consolidation in U.S.
onshore; is that long enough duration of downward time period of activity? I think it does.
I mean I think the longer that we’re in this type of cycle the more difficult it’s going to be for some of the smaller more levered companies to tick around.
I mean look at everyone’s results small to mid-size I mean we’re not -- none of us are making much money.
And as time goes on there are things that we’ll try and do in our business to restructure from a cost standpoint and restructure the way we distribute and service around the U.S.
And I think we’ve still got some levers to pull from a cost standpoint.
But smaller guys that are more concentrated on what they do probably don’t.
And so I do think that we see consolidation.
I don’t know that I am going to consolidate it by the way but I think we do see consolidation.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Keybanc.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to go back to something you mentioned I think on the last conference call which is the opportunity possibly to transfer some idle assets to international.
And whether you see opportunities for that? And in addition you also mentioned of course this international market losing a major competitor here within the next year and how your thinking has evolved around that with respect to Superior? I mean we have been active in transferring assets from the U.S.
over the past couple of years and continue to do that; I mentioned coiled tubing units specifically which clearly we have more coiled tubing units in the U.S.
than what we need and we impaired the value of those coiled tubing assets as Robert talked about this quarter.
But I’ll tell you it’s not like we cut those coiled tubing assets up; they are still intact and they are available for transfer to international arenas where we feel like we can place them and have a good solid long-term profitable business.
So we will continue to do that.
We’ve been very active in moving drill pipe around as always.
And so drill pipe and rental tool assets in general are pretty easily transferrable.
We have some pumping services assets that we have transferred out of the U.S.
I’m speaking of stimulation capacity.
Mainly capacity that is loaded with the triplex pumps that we don’t see is having utilization in the U.S.
market going forward.
So I mean I think we do have a wide range of assets in the U.S.
We’ve been transferring those assets and will continue to do that.
And that’s very helpful for our international guys because when [Indiscernible] transfer of assets clearly there is not the kind of cash requirement that goes along with those opportunities that would if we were having to go buy new assets to fund that expansion.
So I think that’s very helpful for us.
And I think that further the theme here as we do see the market consolidate internationally with one of our largest competitors going away a competitor that in eight core product lines that we focus on for international expansion were competitive with Baker using seven of them.
I think that clearly means that the opportunities accelerate some force and it’s nice to have some assets to transfer into those opportunities.
So on the -- just going back to North America for a second.
As I understood your strategy is -- you laid it out is you were going to stay very close to your existing customers work for them in situations where you could a little bit of margin rather than go after new customers in a down market where price would be determining factor.
So is that still how you are running the businesses as a matter of principle and have you picked up any new customers in this downturn? So by and large we are still staying with that philosophy of continuing to work for customers working for in the back half of 2014 but I think that’s certainly the case in hydraulic fracturing.
And so we continue to be important part of those customers’ overall service mix.
And so far we have not picked up new significant customers in that business line.
I think in general that’s been our philosophy with the services businesses in North America as we’re not trying to make a market share grab.
Where prices are today and virtually everything there is not a reason to chase that revenue for what’s going to be no profit.
So I’d like to think as consolidation takes place in a U.S.
we are preserving asset base and can be in a position of replacing some of those companies that go out of business when the market comes back but that’s not today.
So preserving customer base continues to be our strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
David you talk about international and you’ve gotten to cherry-pick where you work and that’s smart and you hedge your revenues up in the quarter.
But I have to believe that international is getting difficult as well; everybody talked about pricing et cetera.
Are you seeing the most pricing pressure or the most difficult getting business how do you want to look at it from NOCs IOCs or internationally in key companies which is right now the hardest work? So I mean we are probably a bit more levered to NOCs than IOCs overall internationally today and at least in those core markets Jim.
I mean we do more IOC work in places like Africa and some in Asia and a bit in Brazil as well.
But I mean if I think about places like Argentina I mean Argentina our biggest customer is YPF NOC call them what you want to call them and a more of a local company I guess.
We work mainly for the local companies in Colombia.
And so I don’t know that there is a significant difference in behavior from those customers to kind of to your point.
And it sounds like what you are asking is who would you rather work for the IOCs or the NOCs.
I don’t know that there is a big distinction that I’ve seen anyway in behavior between those two different groups.
One exception that is Petrobras.
Petrobras going through an extremely difficult time and they are difficult to work for no matter who you are I think today.
So that’s probably the one… They’ve got their own demons no question.
And a follow-up if I could.
David your outlook your attitude your tone of voice has definitely changed in the last two months.
Can you kind of give me an idea as to how your thinking of the forward future has evolved over the last two months and are there any changes in implication you see as a result of that? Yes.
So I think it’s a great point because whether it’s two months ago or maybe as recently as six weeks ago I think that when we -- the environment that we were in for much of June was one where there was some pretty good optimism about direction in second half of the year because where oil prices were.
And quite frankly it was -- one that being a bit of a false start but I know in speaking to customers in May and June with certain customers the ones have liquidity and have the balance sheet to do more they were certainly gearing up to do more; there’s no question about it.
We saw a few customers that actually followed through this.
I mean I think what’s happened to oil prices over the last six weeks has certainly changed that outlook.
And I don’t know that this is a long term impact at all.
I don’t know where oil prices are going long-term at all; do you Jim? But for the second half of the year I think we’ll… I do but I’m not telling.
Well send it to me in a secret email.
Okay.
That’s helpful guys because I know none of those things claim oil prices but you got to believe that as this keeps happening it’s going to make people more and more reluctant to make commitments knowing they could have their head taken off in a short period of time? I mean I think -- the way that I think about this and I have to keep using the term uncertainty but there’s a lot of uncertainty about oil prices.
And so the way that we think about this internally is that we need to continue to do those things to restructure from a cost standpoint.
And the reason I why pointed this exercises is having been iterative because the first steps that you take and the first steps that we took in the first couple of quarters had in mind that we may need to respond to a little bit higher level of activity in the near term.
And I think now we’re feeling that that’s probably not the case.
And so you dig a little bit deeper and take that next iteration from the cost standpoint to move yourself being a profitable company.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess first I wanted to hit you talked about progressions throughout the quarter on a monthly basis.
So what does exit rate gross margins look like as we exited 2Q? I think for average it was 34.5% if my model is correct? They were down a bit.
So April would have been the highest gross margin month and June would have been the lowest.
I mean it’s not like there’s a enormous gap between the two but they certainly trended down during the course of the quarter.
How you see activity shaping up in the third quarter? Do you think you can hold those exit rate margins? I think that -- listen as long as we’ve got the kind of over capacity situation that we have with a dollar view of oil prices and potentially some customers that are spending a bit less I think it’s difficult to hold pricing.
And I don’t think that we’ve got the kind of -- I’ve heard people ask the question is there another leg in price and I don’t know that I described it is another leg so much as day-to-day pressure that is constantly pushing price down just a bit because there’s so much overcapacity.
And so this back to the cost issue with that in the background knowing that’s likely you got to keep pressing on cost in order to keep margins where they are or to improve margins.
And I think that’s the drive.
So I don’t feel like there is a price improvement opportunity in the near-term with the amount of overcapacity that we have.
So I think it’s not been history in this industry to see long periods of time of flat pricing.
So then you got to reach to conclusion that well there’s probably a bit of downward pressure if there’s any.
So I guess on the Gulf of Mexico and kind of turning to the second half outlook previously you were talking flattish kind of revenues activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico in the second half.
Does that still hold? For deepwater and for the floater market there may be some slight downward trajectory but it’s not much.
Overall our floater rig count has been hanging in there.
And listen I would have told you in January that I thought we’d be headed down in the second half of the year and I’m probably more biased towards it being flattish rather than down.
But we may lose a rig or two; that’s possible.
I think probably as concerning as anything on the deepwater front is that we don’t have a lot of exploratory activity taken place.
Most of what’s been done now are development projects which were commissioned some time back we did have Shell recently announcing new one which is great news but it’s -- if you’re not exploring then there’s some point in the future where deepwater market is going to get a bit smaller.
But it’s not in ‘15 and I don’t know ‘16 I’ll tell you about it later on.
Are you seeing any aggressive pricing behavior in the Gulf of Mexico rental market? Not so much in the real market.
I mean our share position is extremely high particularly in the deepwater.
And so as much as anything what we’ve done from a price standpoint is to preserve market share in light of our customers needing some price relief because of their oil price which is 50% of what it was last year.
And so when a customer that we’ve got very high share position with comes to us and says I need some pricing help or I’m going to need to go out to tender we give them some pricing help.
Our next comes from the line of David Anderson with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about some of those structural changes you talked about in coiled tubing market that caused you to impair and write-down those assets.
On the one hand we’re seeing kind of longer laterals that seem to be relying on more coiled tubing to complete wells question here also about the dissolving bridge plugs.
So is this just sort of a question of your type of coiled tubing that is getting impaired particularly in the U.S.
to Mexico can you just try and talk about some of those secular changes? I mean it’s not our type of coiled tubing.
All of our units are two-inch and larger and that’s just a function of when both Superior and Complete built out coiled tubing fleet so as we’re all done and kind of from 2006 and onward and so they are all modern coiled tubing units that are capable of handling two-inch pipe and of course we have a number of our units that handle two and three ace inch pipe.
So a function of the unit themselves is more function of the fact that and high pressures wells like the high pressure gas wells that we spent so much time on pre 2013 coiled tubing is really your only option for drilling out plugs.
You’re going to do those higher pressure wells with something that contain pressure service rig can’t do that.
And so it’s the lack of high pressure wells that are being completed that really has changed more than anything else they need for coiled tubing.
I mean I think that there are technologies out there like the dissolvable plugs which probably call into question the overall market available for coiled tubing clean outs in the future.
But we still have a lot of completions where coiled tubing is the equipment of choice and I think it will continue to be it’s just not -- it’s not where it was before 2013.
Going back to a couple of months ago you’d kind of talk about how the progression of market kind of played out.
The June was sort of false start you back in kind of May June you were talking about pricing being at unsustainable levels and it sounds like things that kind of fallen off towards the end of the quarter.
And I was just wondering you could extend a little bit on kind of your thoughts on how pricing could come down.
If they are on sustainable levels what is that come out of it I mean is this where do we start to see these guys -- other guys start going away; is that what’s going to happen in the second half in some respects do we need this kind to happen? I mean I think it would be helpful for it happen.
But as I pointed out before so far the attrition that we’ve seen in the business in the form of companies going out of business it’s not enough of a capacity drop in a market that’s got started out with 50% more capacity than what we needed.
So as I said I am not looking for another leg to drop in price but I mean what happens in a market like this is that you do get from time-to-time a company that is trying to be predatory from a market-share standpoint that’s willing to work for a lower price or you get a small company that’s getting desperate because they have got an interest payment coming up that they want to demonstrate to their banks that they are generating volume.
And even though it’s not making any money for them it’s -- the desperation will cause those guys to do things that make you scratch your head.
And you see a little bit in this market like that every day.
And then on the cost reduction side you’ve talked about as things more pressure you have to reduce costs more you clearly made a pretty big point on that in your press release last night.
Just curious how much of that you think is kind of structural versus cyclical.
Obviously the pretty big cyclical component if we talk about wages but your gross margins have improved something like 300 basis points to 500 basis points in the last 12 months.
How much you think that getting that fixed kind of as we start moving up and whatever that is ‘16 or whatnot? I do think in our company that there still are number of structural triggers to pull.
And so so much of what we’ve experienced from a cost saving standpoint to-date has been on the cost of sales line and really involving field employees.
And so as a company like ours with a diverse product line and a lot of operating locations we have the opportunity to look at some of those product lines look at some of those service lines and see are there some things that we can combine.
So there are some things that we can do on restructuring the way we’re offering the service to the marketplace that take some permanent cost out.
And I’ll be very interested in doing those things if we believe that long-term they don’t cause destruction to our overall competitive position.
So I mean those are hard decisions to make but I think there are decisions that we can make that don’t deteriorate our competitive position and may in many cases enhance our competitive position.
And I think that’s where we are today.
I mean we’re at that point where those are the types of triggers that we need to pull in order to drive further cost reduction those are the kinds of things we’ll be looking at.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Sill with Seaport Global.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to dig in or try to get a little bit more color on what happened sequentially in the completion and workover segment.
I understand pressure pumping being down but you also have workover and fluid handling in that segment which in theory are holding up better.
So could you give us little bit color on how you had such a revenue drop it was bigger than the rig count drop in the U.S.
and how that may play forward into Q3? So fluid handling you recall does have a seasonal nature to their business.
And we get a lot of heating revenue in the winter months that really has completely gone during the second quarter.
So I mean that’s not kind of happens every year.
So fluid handling revenue was down substantially from quarter-to-quarter.
I think the other thing is that the fracturing business was down it dropped in really in April.
So we got ahead of full quarter.
We also like I mentioned this on the last call we didn’t have all our frac fleets that were working 24/7 in the earlier of the quarter.
So we did get to 24/7 by late in the quarter and right now we’re expecting to have all the fleets work in 24/7 during the third quarter.
That being said remember there is price movement that occurred.
I don’t want people to get excited about where fracturing revenue is going in the third quarter but it’s probably a bit more stable during the course of the quarter than what we saw during the second quarter.
And did you see anything particularly going on in the workover business because… Workover rig revenue was down but overall what we saw were margins in that business that were pretty steady with where we were exiting the first quarter.
So overall when I look at margins in the three businesses that make up that segment there is not a lot of difference.
And I mean they’re all right around that kind of 10% EBITDA level.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a few quick ones from me.
Do you see more aggressive cost cuts forthcoming that would be enough to perhaps drive some margin improvements by Q4? That is our intention John.
Okay.
Listen I don’t want to overstress how difficult it is in driving cost out of the system.
But I don’t have a strong reason to believe that our levels are going to change dramatically between now and the end of the year.
And as we stated we’re going to be on a constant mission to find a way to make money at these revenue levels and we are not doing that right now.
So I would rather under-promise and over-deliver on when we get there but rest assured that’s the drive.
And then when we look at the margins for the completions and workover business in Q2 it sounds like there won’t be that much improvement in the near-term.
I know you had a small asset impairment there but could we -- would you sense a larger impairment potentially coming there if we stay at these levels for another quarter or so? First off I don’t do impairments; we’ve got accountants that tell us when assets need to be impaired.
I think what we try to do in recognizing that we were going to have an asset impairment in the second quarter is we scrub things pretty good because I don’t want to be that guy that is coming out with a asset write off every quarter.
And so I think we are comfortable with the current market environment and our asset values as they stand up for the write off.
And of course when we took that asset write down and that was a triggering event which caused us to look to at goodwill.
And the only segment and where goodwill was affected was that one where there was the asset write off in production services but we did try to get a cursor and look at the other segments as well.
And I’d like to believe that we’re not going to be in a position having to tell you about write offs every quarter.
Okay just two last quick ones from me.
Just given the lower depreciation guidance in Q3 which I guess most of it comes from production services would we potentially see production services margins operating margins perhaps tweaking higher just because of the depreciation benefit? I think as much as anything if you see production services margins tweak up they are probably the result of things that we do in this effort of restructuring.
And the last one just can you tell us what the U.S.
pressure company capacity is today? Yes.
We’ve got a third of our overall capacity stacked so it’s tow thirds of 750 is what we have working.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to dig into to CapEx little bit Dave.
I think you said that will be just under $400 million this year.
So first just wanted to clarify that number.
And off that how much is growth; how much is acquisitions; how much is truly sustaining CapEx? And if you look at what 2016 could be let’s say we just kind of run flat from here this level of activity what could 2016 spend look like? And I apologize for getting ahead of the budgeting process just trying to get a sense for what to use in our models? Yes.
It’s not a problem I mean I’ll try and give you some idea how I think about it.
There is no acquisition related capital included in the $400 million budget that we announce last year.
And really all we’re saying is we weren’t going to exceed that budget.
I mean our team looks very closely at free cash flow.
And when operating results are below that we budgeted from a budget standpoint then we’re looking at receivables and we’re looking at the CapEx and seeing where we could get more efficient in either of those lines that generate our budget from a free cash flow stand point.
So it triggers.
And so where operating income as I would say that if anything that is probably a bit of the downward bias from $400 million I don’t know that it’s a lot but we won’t spend more than $400 million.
Off that the majority of our spend this year is in the area of maintenance capital.
And I would expect that going into 2016 with overall lower revenue base that we would bring that maintenance capital down.
So I mean without pinpointing a number I would think that if we’re thinking about our market environment ‘16 the one that we’re in today I would say that capital spend would be less than $400 million.
And I’ve got to think that there is some portion of that that is I guess I view as growth capital if you’re moving stimulation equipment Southeast Asia coiled tubing pretty much everywhere.
How much of that is I guess considered growth capital? It would be.
Most of what we’re spending internationally would be considered growth capital.
I mean one of the things that does help us in this environment is that the growth capital requirements for international would be less when we are transferring equipment.
And so we’ll look at those growth opportunities that we have and where we can satisfy that growth by transferring equipment and that causes that growth capital required by international to be less.
But I think it is fair to say we’re probably not going to have a growth capital in the U.S.
and so growth capital is -- whatever element growth capital we’ll have in 2016 is likely to be international.
One more from me.
You have a $0.5 billion in cash $1.1 billion liquidity both appear to be growing then under the assumptions of the capital and more kind of stabilizing.
But can you talk a little bit about how you prioritize the use of cash rank order maybe acquisitions buybacks organic growth prospects? Just kind of walk us through the thought process and is there a stock price that you can -- you simply reshuffle those priorities as it relates to the buyback? I think clearly the what we think about capital structure organic growth is always at the top of the list.
And clearly in a market environment like we’re in the organic growth opportunities are somewhat limited.
After organic growth comes M&amp;A.
And I think part of the reason -- not part of the reason the reason why we began or stop buying back shares like in 2014 was because we saw that the M&amp;A environment may be changing in ‘15 and ‘16 and I think clearly it is changing.
So what we said about this from an M&amp;A standpoint is that we’re clearly going to look at a lot of different areas to deploy cash and we will deploy that cash in a way that we think is consistent with growing earnings and growing return of this company.
And if we can’t get that cash deployed for M&amp;A that satisfies those needs then buying back shares becomes the next natural place for us to go.
So I’m not thinking as this necessarily as just an issue of what’s the stock price I think that we need to allow the market to reveal what all the M&amp;A opportunities will be for us and then make our capital allocation decisions.
Our next question comes from the line of James Schumm with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed with your question.
Dave you mentioned profitability and you’re just trying to right-size the business with current activity levels.
I mean if I were to tell you that activity is flat over the next I don’t know six quarters is profitability on an EBIT basis is that possible in Q1 next year or Q4 next year can you just help me hazard a guess as to what you are thinking there? I don’t know that I’m really ready to talk about win.
I think a lot of that’s going to have to do with what we see is being some of the restructuring charges we want to pull and how much we believe we’re going to capture in the way of cost out of those restructuring triggers.
So the question you’re asking is a great one it’s a legit one; I’m not trying to dodge it I am just not ready to answer it yet.
And then in technical solutions you guys highlighted some completion tool sales in Indonesia I believe.
Is there any one-time or restocking events there or is this level of activity and profitability somewhat sustainable going into Q3? Completion tool deliveries internationally can be a bit lumpy.
And I mean -- what I mean by that is that we’ll deliver equipment for four or five wells.
And when that equipment is accepted by the customer then we recognize the revenue -- we invoice them for it foreign and recognize revenue.
Those four or five wells may take them six or eight months to get in the ground may take them a year to get in the ground.
When they’re in the ground then we’ll restock.
And so it does tend to be a bit lumpy it doesn’t follow a perfectly regular type of delivery schedule it’s great when it happens.
But I think what we wanted to point out is that listen if completion tool’s revenues are bit lower in Q3 don’t think it’s because of the market’s getting smaller or because we’re doing anything differently; it’s just that does tend to be a lumpy business.
And how additive to margins are those completion tool sales? So maybe those don’t recur in Q3 maybe your revenues are down a bit but what does that do to margins? Think about in general margins on those sales being kind of 20% to 25% range.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Daniel you’re getting in just under the gun man.
Yea I squeezed in.
You used the metric cost per employee in U.S.
land down 20% obviously looking closely at that.
Where can that go or maybe it’s easier to express at this way how does your current cost per employee compared to where you think the business was five years ago or eight years ago? Yes I think that overall our cost per -- I don’t think -- our cost per employee today continues to be above what I would consider to be historic norms for North American services oriented businesses.
And I mean it’s driven by a few things one is we’ve seen obviously over the last 10 years we have seen some pretty significant wage increases and wage acceleration and that’s just driven by -- as the shale market developed the extreme need that we had in these businesses for new labor.
The other component has been that so many of the basins that we’re operating in today have really never had the labor for us that was needed in the basin to support the work level.
And so we’ve incurred those costs associated with rotational employees.
So you think about man camps all of the man camps that are out there in North Dakota and the Permian Basin they used to be down to South Texas too.
I mean they are there to accommodate rotating labor and rotating labor cost us more.
And so I still see the opportunity over time to continue to reduce the amount of our workforce that is -- that we’re incurring cost to rotate for.
And ultimately we like to see us get back to the kind of labor force that we had in the U.S.
2005 and prior to that where employees in every basin resided in that basin; and we’re not there yet.
And maybe last one or second one just quick diagnostics on production services in Q2.
Even though it was pretty resilient despite the revenue decline I would imagine international probably uptick to term the contribution and you pull some costs out but it seems like the underlying U.S.
business probably experienced pretty low decrementals; is that fair and has that business reached the level at which it’s sort of at a hard trough? I’d certainly like to think so Daniel.
I mean it was probably particularly in the coiled tubing business in the U.S.
it was one that was really pulling down margins in that business.
We’ve been working a lot on cost in coiled tubing we of course exited the business in Mexico which has been losing money for us that’s included in that segment.
So I think that there a guy in my position got to be really careful about calling trough.
But I think that there is still opportunity to go build margin in that business as we continue to work on cost and eliminate some of the operations such as Mexico that have been losing money.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Dunlap I would like now to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us.
Talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
And have a wonderful day.