Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
With me today are Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Paul and welcome to everyone joining in this morning.
I'll begin with a review of third quarter activity.
Robert will discuss segment results and I'll wrap up with thoughts on our strategy and outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the third quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $601 million adjusted EBITDA of $68 million and an adjusted loss from operations of $69 million or $0.46 per share after excluding special items.
Overall operating conditions remained challenging during the third quarter.
Crude oil prices and the horizontal rig count both declined sequentially causing persistent pricing pressure and reduced equipment utilization across most product lines and services in all geographies.
In the U.S.
oil and gas exploration and production companies are facing increasing levels of financial stress and collectively are more focused today on their liquidity and cash flow preservation than production growth.
We expect this focus to be maintained through the end of 2015 and into 2016.
To the extent that oil and gas drilling and completion activity does pick up we suspect it will be driven by increasing crude oil prices with a belief that prices will need to improve and remain higher for some time to inspire additional E&amp;P spending.
The Gulf of Mexico and international markets have also been impacted by declines in oil prices.
In these geographies our sequential revenue decline was driven by two product lines in particular.
As discussed during our last call the second quarter was strong for our snubbing and sand control completions businesses.
These two businesses alone were responsible for approximately $38 million of our total sequential revenue decline and about 25% of our sequential gross margin decline during the quarter.
We expect both of these businesses to rebound in the fourth quarter and perform somewhere between our Q2 and Q3 results.
During our last call we mentioned that we would continue to seek ways to restructure our cost basis in the business during this downturn.
I'm pleased to report that we have made significant strides in this effort in our U.S.
businesses.
Beginning in August in an exercise that is now nearly complete we have combined many of our U.S.
production and completions oriented businesses into geo market focused organizations.
In the U.S.
land market we've combined our coiled tubing well test flowback cased hole wireline slick line and our well service rig businesses into a single business unit.
These businesses are now all managed by one senior manager.
Redundancies in all sales and administrative-related functions as well as operational support and facilities are being eliminated.
In addition we have shut down one of our pressure control related businesses and transferred those assets to our service rig business.
The result is an organization that is capable of providing the most comprehensive completions-oriented package in the market.
We now have a one-stop shop for our customers to contract all elements of completions support and are perfectly aligned with our customers' central procurement functions.
In addition we have enhanced our ability to offer a service rig with a full complement of BOP accumulator sledges (4:47) and pump package.
Concurrently we executed a similar integration on the Gulf Coast to form a single business unit that offers cased hole wireline slick line pressure control services coiled tubing plug and abandonment and slot recovery services.
This combines the sales and administrative function of what were four separate organizations and offers industry leading knowledge of Gulf Coast cased hole operations in a single business unit.
This geo market structure for our production and completions related support businesses is similar to the structure that we utilize internationally.
It is also a structure that creates competitive advantage in packaging an attribute we believe will be very appealing to our customers.
When we undertook these integration efforts we believed the result would be a more competitive business offering with lower operating costs.
We have already observed the first-hand with the award of a completions tender in the Permian Basin that includes hydraulic fracturing frac stacks perforating packers and plugs on a multi-pad project for a new customer.
Our integration effort has not been easy but I've been pleased with the speed and efficiency in which it was executed.
During the third quarter we incurred about $10 million in costs associated with restructuring and believe there will be some additional costs incurred in Q4 as the process is completed.
The result of our effort is not only a better more competitively positioned business but also results in $50 million of expected annualized cost savings relative to our Q3 2015 cost structure which will enhance operating leverage when we experience higher revenue levels.
While we believe this geo markets approach will be helpful to our competitive positioning of these product lines we have chosen not to include horizontal well fracturing or our water management business in this reorganization.
In addition we continue to believe that rental businesses and project-oriented businesses such as sand control completions and well control are better organized as global businesses.
As reported today in our press release we did impair a portion of the goodwill associated with our Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment.
This is reflective of how steep and prolonged this downturn has been and may continue to be but it has no impact on the company's earnings capacity.
We also believe that our strong liquidity position and track record of financial operational and investment discipline speaks for itself.
We are highly levered to any future North American recovery and maintain a dominant Gulf of Mexico rental franchise with growing international exposure.
Operating highlights of the quarter include increased utilization in our hydraulic well fracturing business which was offset by pricing pressure but supports our belief that our operating model is ideally situated for the preferences of our larger less financially constrained oil and gas operators.
Our sand control completions business successfully installed and commissioned the first 7.75-inch multi-zone single trip system that has ever been deployed in the world.
While demonstrating our approach to practical innovation this tool also improves our ability to compete in the deepwater arena.
Internationally we performed our first coiled tubing work in India during the quarter and anticipate performing our first stimulation work there in the near future.
We entered the India market via a small acquisition just about a year ago and have already introduced two new product lines.
This is exactly what we look for when evaluating international expansion opportunities.
Continuing with this theme we recently added coiled tubing capacity in Argentina and have been pleased with the performance of that business as well.
Although the international markets are not immune to the collapse in crude oil prices we continue to be in good position in our targeted markets.
We are well aware of the perils that exist during such a pronounced downturn and surviving this part of the cycle has been and remains a top priority.
We are maintaining operating capacity reducing our cost structure and high-grading our work force.
We believe when markets recover and revenue growth is again on the horizon that we will be in position to deliver impressive incremental margins and strong earnings growth.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Robert.
Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</strong> Thank you Dave.
In my discussion of each operating segment the sequential comparisons have been adjusted to exclude the impact of special items that were disclosed in our earnings release.
Drilling Products and Services segment's revenue decreased 12% to $130 million and adjusted income from operations decreased 60% to $8 million respectively.
U.S.
Land revenue decreased 13% to $33 million driven by lower bottomhole assembly and accommodation utilization.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 10% to $57 million due to lower bottomhole assembly and specialty completion related rentals utilization.
International revenue decreased 16% to $40 million due to lower levels of drill pipe rentals in the North Sea.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue decreased 10% to $203 million which decreased 10%.
This segment recorded an adjusted loss from operations of $54 million compared to an adjusted loss from operations of $44 million in the second quarter.
Horizontal well fracturing utilization was slightly higher during the third quarter but was impacted by continued pricing pressure.
Fluid management revenue declined due to lower levels of activity primarily in the Rockies.
Well service rig revenue was down due to lower levels of completion related activity during the quarter.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 21% to $164 million which resulted in an adjusted loss from operations of $25 million.
U.S.
Land revenue decreased 14% to $86 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 45% to $12 million due to declines in coiled tubing and electric line.
International revenue decreased 24% to $66 million primarily due to seasonal declines in snubbing and our exit of the coiled tubing business in Mexico which we brought to your attention last quarter.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue decreased 18% to $104 million resulting in an adjusted loss from operations of $8 million.
U.S.
Land revenue increased 13% to $16 million on higher completion tools revenue.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 19% to $62 million due to reduced activity in our snubbing and sand control completions businesses.
International revenue decreased 28% to $26 million driven primarily by decreased sand control completions activity in Indonesia.
During my discussion of our segments' results I've mentioned snubbing and our sand control completions businesses a couple of times.
These businesses tend to be project oriented and aren't as impacted by the declines in the U.S.
Land market as other businesses.
As mentioned earlier we currently expect activity for both of these businesses to increase during the fourth quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times and our debt-to-capital ratio was 40.1%.
Our total debt at quarter end was unchanged at $1.6 billion.
Offsetting this debt we reported a cash balance of $534 million as of September 30 resulting in net debt of $1.1 billion.
Free cash flow from the quarter of $53 million resulted from further improvements in working capital capital spending discipline and continued emphasis on cost reductions.
Total free cash flow for 2015 through September 30 is $247 million.
As Dave mentioned we reported a pre-tax charge for the reduction in the value of assets of $756 million.
This is primarily related to an impairment of goodwill in our Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment driven by further deterioration of market conditions and the prolonged downturn in the oil and gas industry.
There were no shares repurchased during the quarter.
Our cash balance grew by $33 million during the quarter and remains above $0.5 billion.
As we move through this cycle our free cash flow generation will become more challenging and we will emphasize cash preservation until we believe we have reached a trough in oil field activity.
Reviewing assumptions for the fourth quarter I'll begin with G&amp;A.
We continued our cost reduction efforts during the third quarter and reported G&amp;A of $123 million for the period.
This is approximately $6 million below our Q2 2015 levels.
For the first nine months of 2015 G&amp;A totaled $404 million which is $54 million less than our G&amp;A over the first nine months of 2014.
Most of the reduction in G&amp;A has resulted from reduced employee and infrastructure related expenses.
We expect G&amp;A in the fourth quarter to be in the $114 million to $118 million range.
Annualized this run rate would put us approximately 25% below our 2014 full-year G&amp;A.
We expect DD&amp;A to be in the range of $142 million to $146 million.
This estimate takes into account any reduction of DD&amp;A associated with the reduction in asset value.
Fourth quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our effective income tax rate during the quarter was impacted by the goodwill impairment charge which is non-deductible for tax purposes.
The estimate of our full-year effective income tax exclusive of non-deductible goodwill is now 34% down from our previous estimate of 37%.
We expect the fourth quarter effective income tax rate to be approximately 34%.
And with that I will now turn the call back over to Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Robert.
One observation I have from this earnings season is the pent-up desire for industry to declare a bottom to this downturn.
I don't believe we will know when we have bottomed until that period is well behind us.
Industry participants do seem to agree that activity in the U.S.
which trended down during the third quarter will continue to trend down during Q4.
We have heard from several of our larger customers that they intend to increase their activity during Q1 as they will have fresh budgets and a desire to front-end load their spending in 2016 to optimize production during the year.
These customers' ability to maintain their early year pace of spending will be largely dependent on improving oil prices during the course of 2016.
I am sure that there will be other customers that reduce spending during Q4 this year and enter 2016 maintaining that low level of spend either because they have less liquidity or they just don't like producing in this low-priced environment.
Our visibility on overall E&amp;P spend remains murky at best which means that we need to remain nimble and continue to drive cost efficiencies while positioning our business for the point in time when we do experience higher revenue.
We have invested maintenance capital throughout the year.
Much of it is directed toward the U.S.
land market in an effort to keep our assets in like-new condition for a market recovery.
In addition we continue to invest in training and on-boarding in order to respond in short order to the ultimate need for more entry level people in our business.
Using our horizontal well fracturing business as an example we believe we can hire train and deploy up to 100 employees per month and take our fracturing utilization from approximately 50% at the end of Q3 2015 to 75% in six months or less.
Should we see evidence of further oil price recovery and stability which we believe will be the driving force behind any change in customer behavior we can continue activating equipment and believe we can be near 100% utilization within 12 months.
While this would require an increase in capital expenditures it would also be supported by customer demand and would not be speculative.
This example is illustrative of how we are viewing the opportunity ahead of us over the next 12 months to 18 months and should help investors understand how we intend to capture sizable incremental margins in a recovery.
We will be responsive early in the cycle.
We will provide field level reliability and execution that customers must have to be efficient and we will continue to invest responsibly at levels that we can manage effectively.
This downturn certainly hasn't been any fun and continues to be challenging.
We believe our track record of managing the company for full cycle returns should provide confidence that we will be shrewd in our decision-making.
More importantly we believe the measures we've taken to modify the complexion of Superior Energy during 2015 will result in excellent financial performance and results when the market does become more favorable.
Before turning the call over to Q&amp;A I'd be remiss if I didn't acknowledge the dedication and commitment to solving problems I've observed from everyone at the company this year.
You learn a lot about people when business becomes challenging and I've learned that the people who work for Superior Energy are true professionals and can't wait to see how well we do when the market improves.
With that we'll turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel from Clarksons Platou Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Maybe if we could start with the exercise of disaggregating the Drilling Products and Services group again for the quarter understanding that there's some different moving parts there and help us understand those moving parts between accommodations and things that are probably a little bit more challenged than the rentals business and what's been going on there? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So all of the businesses in that segment were impacted last quarter.
The accommodations business is the one that is really most challenged from an overall pricing and margins standpoint.
In a lot of ways that business looks a lot like most of the North American services businesses do.
We continue to see pricing pressure on drill pipe and bottomhole assemblies but I think overall bottomhole assemblies revenue was probably most impacted during the quarter.
And so those are the tools that support directional and horizontal drilling.
And I think that overall the bottomhole assemblies product line was more impacted from Q2 to Q3 than drill pipe.
Premium drill pipe and landing string rentals continues to be fairly good in the Gulf of Mexico.
Revenue was down for those product lines as you'd expect from Q2 to Q3 but we have a fairly dominant market share position there that's holding up well.
We did see some international revenue declines in premium drill pipe primarily in the North Sea.
But the really – most challenging product line within that segment is in the accommodations business.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And when you talk about shifting to this geo market approach and maybe some of the business as being more one-stop-shop can you talk us through that education process or the sales process with the customers? Does that have to migrate up to the C-suites of the customers or is it easier to make that transition through the field? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's actually a transition that takes place from a communications standpoint more with engineers in the office of our customers and with their procurement groups which – one of the things that we have witnessed during the course of this year is that purchasing decisions which over the past five or six years have been made in the field have migrated to the office.
And so we had a lot of consultants particularly in the land market of the U.S.
that were making procurement decisions in the past and that's a behavior that has changed dramatically.
So one of the things that we saw from operators relatively early in the year is that they've pulled purchasing decisions out of the field moved it into central procurement groups and those central procurement groups really like the idea of a single one-stop-shop.
I think that this is a behavior that will maintain any upturn that we experience as oil prices improve at some point in the future.
And I think we're going to see central procurement groups now that have gained more muscle during this downturn control more of the spend for these types of services as we go forward.
All right.
Appreciate the color.
I'll turn it back.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson from Howard Weil.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Blake.
First of all Dave I didn't hear you and rightfully so call this out at all but I guess when you go through a somewhat major restructuring at least in Superior parlance like this I would suppose that there's a point in the quarter or a point in the process where you're making the decision to forego an amount of revenue albeit unprofitable revenue.
Would you suggest that A) that had an undue impact perhaps on top line as you're actually reorganizing yards equipment et cetera and we should consider this continuing into 4Q as well? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I don't know that there was a significant amount of disruption on the top line during the third quarter.
We did have as I mentioned one of our pressure control rental businesses that we opted to close during the quarter.
And of course in and of itself that would be revenue that is gone does not return at any point in the upcycle.
But I also mentioned – and these are – so let me get more specific.
In this particular business the primary business has been rental of high pressure flowback iron to flowback companies; BOPs pump packages accumulators to drilling rig companies and workover rig companies.
And what we saw in that business was that it was not profitable for us.
It was losing money for us in this particular cycle.
Over the past several years it's been a business that kind of survived right around the cost of capital level even when times were good.
And so in shutting the business we have dropped our top line exposure but we're taking those assets and putting them to use in other parts of the business.
So I mentioned we can take those same BOPs and pump packages and accumulators and include them as part of the rental package on one of our service rigs which actually gives us a revenue uplift there.
So I don't know that anything that we did during the quarter has a substantial impact on our ability to generate top line.
In fact I'd probably argue that it's going to generate substantially better bottom line over time.
Got it.
And then switching to the international markets I think you gave some good billback (25:06) to production services and the snubbing and technical services sand control issues – or comparisons during the quarter not issues.
Question is then centered on the international within DPS.
The North Sea we all kind of I'm sure know the state of the North Sea right now but that pipe business in itself has kind of been fluctuating up and down for the last year.
Is it kind of down for the count or is it just a variable this quarter at this point? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Down for the count I mean to say that would be indicating that we're at bottom and I'm not sure I'm ready to do that at this point.
But I think that what we've seen is over the course of the last year and a half or so Drilling Products and Services first came under a bit of pressure in Brazil which was not all directed at – or the result of an oil price decline.
And now what we're seeing are more reductions in that business that are truly based on customer activity and decline in areas like the North Sea.
I do see in the Drilling Products and Services business still opportunities for us to increase revenue in places like Asia.
And I know that's kind of a focus in that group now so there may be some offset areas that we're able to expand into and begin to get some revenue improvement.
But I think overall that is a business which like many of our others is going to be down until we begin to see better activity driven by better oil price.
Right.
Well thanks Dave.
I appreciate the time.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lamotte from Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks guys.
Hey Dave I wanted to just follow up on what you thought the run rate savings was likely to be from the consolidations that you executed in the third quarter.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So what I mentioned was we expect to see around $50 million a year in annualized savings.
That's based on a Q3 2015 run rate.
Okay.
Sorry for missing that.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No problem.
And then the integration team what are they focused on now? You actually moved a lot faster on U.S.
land and Gulf of Mexico than I would have given.
I thought this was maybe a two quarter process.
But I know those guys are still busy and you've still got some work to do.
Can you maybe give a sense as to what inning you think you are in the process and what they're sort of immediate focus is at this time? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So the integration team is actually largely complete.
We started this process in August.
It did move very swiftly and I'd say the integration was really largely complete by the second week in October.
We do still have some trailing costs associated with this restructuring.
So I pointed to around $10 million in costs during the third quarter.
That's associated with severance as well as facility closures are the primary portion of that cost.
We'll have some of those same types of costs although to a lesser degree in the fourth quarter.
So we've kind of bridged quarters during this integration effort so you got some cost in Q3 and we'll have some trailing cost in Q4 but it's totally finished from a cost standpoint by the end of Q4.
Integration team's really done a good job.
I mean the businesses have been handed over to the new senior managers and the integration team was there to organize the effort and they did a fantastic job.
I might also add just while I'm on this this is really the first time Superior at a corporate level has taken on this type of integration exercise.
Historically in Superior and in Complete the two primary organizations that make up our company today we didn't do a lot of integration with acquisitions.
We let things stand alone in many cases carrying their own sales and G&amp;A functions and so this was our first chance to what I describe exercise some integration muscle which I think may be helpful to us at some point in the future.
I should also point out on that $50 million in annualized cost savings that it's about a 50/50 split between cost of goods sold and G&amp;A as to where those cost efficiencies reside.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
I'll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> So Dave you're saying that the bottom's January 1? Just kidding.
That's a joke.
Just kidding.
Spend a little time on the Gulf of Mexico.
The rig count's been relatively flat there.
It was – this is one of your weaker areas.
Help us understand what's going on specifically with you but more generically next year in the Gulf and what your outlook is given – with your restructuring? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so I'll split this response into two parts.
The first part is the shelf.
The shelf has been very slow.
Most of the work that we've had going on on the shelf is related to minor production maintenance work and plug and abandonment.
And you know that is a part of the market that really began coming down during 2014 when oil prices were still good.
I do not expect to see any increase in drilling or completions activity as long as we're in this kind of oil price environment and expect that most of our business on the shelf will be related to production maintenance and plug and abandonment.
Deepwater rig count has held up generally fairly well and of course most of what's going on – I think all of what's going on in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico today is development related.
I feel pretty good about maintaining a reasonably strong level of development activity until we run out of development projects to do.
I get a little bit concerned that there's not much E&amp;P or exploration activity taking place there but it kind of feels like where the market is today is probably a reasonable point to think about the deepwater market over the next few quarters.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue in the third quarter was greatly impacted by snubbing and completion – sand control completions which they do tend to be kind of lumpy businesses we've told you guys that in the past.
The reason why they're highlighted now is because those two businesses actually remain overall pretty strong which is an outlier in this particular market.
So it was one thing – just to give you an idea I mean those are businesses that generate in the neighborhood of $300 million a year in revenue which was not much to talk about when we were doing $4.5 billion in revenue; it winds up being a lot more to talk about when you're doing $2.5 billion in revenue.
Inc.</span></strong> But were there any specific customers where you had a problem? And I guess just to rehash what I think you said was that this was kind of a lumpier downturn that the run rate going forward is going to be much better.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> These businesses are always lumpy.
So in the Gulf of Mexico when you're doing these deepwater completions you may have a particular project in one quarter that's exotic metallurgy and of course we build two completion strings for every one of these deepwater completions.
My point is you get three or four of these completions going on in a quarter and you have a big revenue spike.
You get one or two completions the next quarter and you see a revenue decline.
And it's not necessarily that you've lost a customer or gained a customer; it's just where that customer happens to be in their drilling and completion cycle.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And lastly on – just to finish up on the Gulf it sounds like just from an outlook perspective your customers are sticking with their plans.
No major deterioration next year given what your customers are telling you.
Just specifically in the Gulf.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah not at all specifically in the Gulf.
And I think I could probably make a similar comment in many of the international markets.
I've been on a trip over the last month in Asia and I heard several of the NOCs that we're talking about going out to contract for deepwater rigs in 2016 which kind of had me scratching my head.
But what you hear from those customers is they're re-looking project economics because deepwater rig rates have gotten so cheap.
So I don't know Marshall I'm not trying to build a lot of optimism into a deepwater global market story but there certainly are some customers outside of the Gulf of Mexico that are beginning to think this way.
Whether we start to see Gulf of Mexico customers think that lower day rates on rigs should drive a higher level of activity we'll just have to see.
Hadn't had any of them specifically say that to us yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Chase.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess I'm going to ask for your crystal ball for 2016 as we kind of look to the international market.
Can you just walk us through the puts and takes for the international market in 2016? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean listen overall the international market is going to be down another leg I think in 2016.
International customers are always a bit slower to respond to commodity price changes so we see a bit of a leg down in 2015.
I think you see another leg down in 2016.
Puts and takes on that from Superior's standpoint we will continue in our targeted markets to add product lines where we get opportunities to do that.
I mean is that enough to overcome what will be overall a market decline? I doubt it.
But it may mitigate some of the downside some.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And for the international market how much of your 3Q revenues were generated from deepwater? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't have a good answer for that (35:29).
Inc.</span></strong> On a percentage basis I mean.
You think it's 25% 50%? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd rather than taking a guess at it I'd rather get back to you on it.
Paul can answer that question for you after the call.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
I'm going to ask the same question now on the Gulf of Mexico.
Do you know that? How much of your 3Q revenues were generated from the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably on the order of 70% or 75%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then last one and I'll turn it back over.
2016 CapEx how should we be thinking about that? I know it's kind of early but what should we plugging in our model? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean it's clearly going to be lower.
We haven't completed a budget yet which we'll be going through that process between now and kind of mid-December but my – what I've tried to steer the organization towards is this.
I'd like to enter 2016 with a very very low spend rate.
And when I say very very low as close as we can get to zero.
I'm sure we'll spend – there will be some capital spending in Q1 but I'd like to start the year at a very low pace so we've got flexibility as the year evolves and see what the market brings us.
I think that getting locked into certain capital projects when we may continue to be for a full year in 2016 in conditions like we are right now we're going to think about cash preservation as Robert pointed out.
And so expect at least our first quarter and probably first half of year capital spending levels to be extremely low.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All-righty.
Thanks Dave war eagle (37:01).
Next question comes from the line of Sean Meakim from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Sean.
Just to piggyback a little bit off of the previous Gulf of Mexico discussion were there any other customer or project-specific challenges that you guys had in the quarter to help drive some of that discrepancy between revenue and rig counts? And then consequently as you think about 4Q anything that could kind of bounce back or see any changes or no given how kind of our budget sit today? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we mentioned in some of our prepared comments I mean we had a – with a significant reduction overall in revenue in both snubbing and completions and that's both – that's a split between international and Gulf of Mexico but between those two product lines it explains almost half of our overall revenue decline from Q2 to Q3.
We do expect revenue to rebound in both those product lines in Q4 probably not all the way up to Q2 levels but if you picked a point in between that's probably a good proxy.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then in terms of international pricing strategy any shift in how you guys are thinking about trading pricing for longer terms or lower cost requirements anything there in terms of that's changing over the past quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Not really.
A lot of the work that we do internationally is contracted and so you set those prices and generally live with them for at least a year or multi-year period.
I don't know that we've got any particular big contract lulls that are coming in any time soon but – so I don't know that I have a lot of commentary on international pricing.
I think that certainly we've had some concessions in markets that are dominated by more call-out work such as Argentina.
We've seen some concessions throughout the course of the year in Brazil as Petrobras has gone through their downturn but I don't know that there is anywhere else internationally that we're seeing any pronounced changes in pricing strategy.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta from Stephens Inc.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the questions Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> We've hit on this some in the Gulf of Mexico a little bit internationally are you able to quantify how much of the decline sequentially from the second to the third quarter in the variety of international markets is related to project delay slippage? How much is a result of lower activity of market share and do you think you can make back any of the portion that is slippage or delays? Can you make (39:44) the fourth quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know that I would characterize this as slippage or delays.
I mean I think as we have said significant portion of the revenue decline coming from snubbing and sand control completions which tend to be lumpy.
They've always tended to be lumpy type of product lines and so we had a very strong quarter in the second quarter from that standpoint and both of those product lines performing at very high levels in the second quarter both of them kind of at low levels in Q3.
I think Q4 is probably that point that's in between which would be kind of more I guess mid-cyclical.
But I would not characterize what they've experience in Q3 as delays just part of their normal revenue cycle.
We'll say this on international and we've pointed this out in the prepared comments we did – part of our international revenue decline from Q2 to Q3 was a result of not being in Mexico anymore.
And we mentioned that on our last conference call that we had exited Mexico and the exit of Mexico is responsible for somewhere around 20% to 25% of our overall revenue decline internationally.
Now obviously it didn't have any impact on margin because we weren't making any money in Mexico but it did have an impact on top line.
Inc.</span></strong> That color is very helpful.
And staying on the international front obviously there are many markets there – it's funny we consider it the international market – but any insight into next year? I know this question's kind of been asked but is a good way to think about this on what we think the rig count will be internationally or how can we start to calibrate our models? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know and this is kind of a rough assessment at this point but we went into the year believing that the international E&amp;P spend would be down 10% to 15%.
I think when it's all said and done it's going to be more like 20%.
I think that in 2016 10% to 15% probably feels a little bit better but there's going to be big differences as you mentioned from one country to the next.
And so I don't know we'll get a better assessment of how it impacts us as we go through the budget cycle and we'll be able to give you guys some guidance on what we think our international revenue does when we report our fourth quarter earnings.
But my very high-level view at this point would be to thinking kind of 10% to 15% down in 2016 overall E&amp;P spend internationally.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Final one out of me is there any seasonality in the snubbing work in the work that seems to be more lumpy? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
In fact Q3 is typically a seasonal low in that business for work that takes place in Europe and the North Sea.
Most of what's done that's not well-control related work with snubbing tends to be kind of optional work.
It's things that can be scheduled and in general we've seen customers in continental Europe as well as the North Sea that prefer not to take on these optional projects during the big vacation period so we always see the snubbing business down some in Q3.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Bill.
I wanted to ask a little bit about your balance sheet and balance sheet optionality with regard to M&amp;A.
And I'm just curious as to how you're thinking about that today just given the depth and duration of this downturn.
I mean on the one hand transaction values are coming your way.
On the other hand industry fundamentals have been all the more challenging.
So I'm just curious as to how you think about the balance sheet? How hard are you willing to push the balance sheet for the right kind of transaction? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if there's one thing that down cycles teach us is that you should always be cognizant of where your balance sheet is and what kind of balance sheet risk that you're taking.
I mean I feel very good about the way we've positioned our balance sheet and particularly the cash balance on that balance sheet for this downturn.
As you are aware we've maintained a free cash flow position this year as we had last year and the year before that.
That's not new metrics for Superior.
I think the reality of this Bill is that the cash on the balance sheet is a really important asset for us right now.
The undrawn nature of our current revolver is a tremendous asset for us now and we'd like to hold onto it for as long as we can.
So – and I think that M&amp;A has not been progressing at a very high pace because there's not very many people out there that can pull the trigger as buyers and we're one of the few companies that you point to that does have flexibility with our balance sheet to potentially be a buyer but at the same time that good balance sheet is part of what gives us confidence that we're going to come out of this downturn as a strong survivor.
And so I'm not perfectly answering your question I know but I mean ideally you begin to look at M&amp;A and execute on M&amp;A as you get to the end of this cycle.
I'm not sure we're there yet.
Okay.
That's fair and sensible.
Can you update us with regard to the head count reductions year-to-date versus the 2014 head count? And then in relation to that just given the depth and duration of this downturn and increasingly the industry cutting not only into fat and muscle but now into bone I'm just curious as to your thoughts on headroom for growth once the bell rings for the growth narrative for the industry writ large? And what kind of headroom for growth do you guys now have with regard to low-hanging fruit without having to significantly reinvest in the business in order to keep pace with the E&amp;P capital spending? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
On head count we exited 2014 overall company-wide with a head count of around 14 000 and our head count today is down 34% from that level.
So it has been a significant reduction over our workforce.
Now some of that is driven by the restructuring and integration of businesses.
So we've removed some redundancy which is included in that number but the significant portion of this is what I would describe as entry-level positions in our U.S.
service-oriented businesses.
And those entry-level positions can be an entry-level equipment operator or an entry-level driver.
These are the first positions that we will have to hire as business improves.
I commented in our prepared remarks that one area of the company where we have maintained a cost structure at this point is in our onboarding and training effort because I'm certain – I don't know when it's going to be Bill but there's going to be a point in time that I turn to the organization and say we need to start adding entry-level people.
And so having internally that backbone to be able to do that is very important.
And it is a skill set that we have not released during this downturn.
So I feel good about our ability to add people when we need them.
I think from an equipment standpoint we have done a lot during the course of 2015 to ensure that the equipment that we have parked on the fence is in condition to go to work immediately.
We spent significant maintenance capital dollars during 2015 for instance in fracturing where as I mentioned before I feel very confident in our ability to stand up about 25% of our total frac fleet today in like new condition and think that we can hire employees in that business at a pace of about 100 a month in order to get utilization back up when the opportunity arrives.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Daniel.
A much smaller one on the balance sheet Dave.
Could you give us an update on turning assets held for sale into cash? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So we – this is still primarily the assets from the shut down Hallin Marine business.
There's still a couple of boats one which I think will be – or I think – we have a MOA on now that I think will be all for the balance sheet and converted to cash before the end of Q4.
The other vessel is getting a lot of attention but I'm not ready to commit on when it would be gone.
There are also some ROVs and set diving systems that are in that business.
And those are being peeled out over time.
But it's not a great market to be selling those types of assets into clearly but we are seeing interest still on those.
The other large asset that is held for sale now is a derrick barge that is currently in Morgan City Louisiana.
And once again we hadn't had a huge amount of interest on the derrick barge but we've got a few potential buyers in the queue right now.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I'm sorry to return to this but just to be clear I would've thought the majority of the decline you highlighted in snubbing and sand control sequentially would've been on the international side of the business.
But I guess I just was looking for any incremental hints on how to apportion that between international and Gulf of Mexico.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's pretty close to a 50/50 split Daniel.
I mean we had big sand control completion tool delivery that we made in the second quarter in Indonesia.
But we also had substantially less sand control completions revenue in the Gulf of Mexico in Q3.
So you kind of got a double hit on that from Q2 to Q3 and we see the Gulf of Mexico revenue coming back up in sand control completions during the fourth quarter.
Snubbing was probably a bit more related to international than it was to Gulf of Mexico.
Call it 60/40.
That's perfect.
I appreciate that detail.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
The next question comes from the line of Ken Sill from Seaport Global.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
First question talking about this quarter and everybody is saying their customers may quit working between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
I'm wondering A is that what you really expect or do you just really – if I guess could be more of a people don't start new projects after Thanksgiving but they finish up what they've got? And then you guys that are talking about starting up next quarter will they be starting early in January or will it be a slow restart? Do you have a feel for that yet? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the customers that have – I'll answer the second part of that question first – the customers that have indicated to us that they want to pick up if you will during the first quarter have indicated they want to do it very early in the first quarter.
I do think as I said in our prior comments there will be other customers that gets slow during the fourth quarter and stay slow in January and February.
So I described it as being murky at best then it's murky at best.
So I'm not trying to lead you to a point where we think that Q1 revenues are going to slingshot up as a result of some of these guys reloaded with budgets spending more money.
I've heard people characterize this period between Thanksgiving and Christmas as being a shutdown.
I don't think it's a shutdown.
I think what you'll see during the course of the quarter is just a continued slowdown.
And it may very well be that you've got periods of time during the week of Thanksgiving or during the week of Christmas where customers stop completions activity for a week.
But I don't think that's characteristic of all of the market it's just it's going to demonstrate itself as slow weeks that occur during November and December.
And we always have that to a certain extent it's just probably a bit exaggerated this year.
That's kind of what I was thinking but I wanted to hear somebody in the business say that.
For people to take off five weeks they knew it would be pretty pretty unusual.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That would be exceptionally unusual.
Yeah.
Well we're in exceptional times here.
One area that we haven't heard any commentary on and maybe because it's just because it's too early but it does seem like the Middle East is going to be one of those areas where activity is going to hold up better.
Are you guys seeing any opportunities there that could help next year? Or is it just too early to call? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We hired some new management personnel in the Middle East I guess at the end of Q2 or during the second quarter that I know are aggressively seeking opportunities in the Middle East.
And they're aggressive guys and they're guys that have been successful over time.
I expect that they'll come with some opportunities.
That being said spending – overall E&amp;P spend in the Middle East has held up well in 2015.
I'm not sure it holds up to the same extent in 2016 as these NOCs are coming under a bit of pressure locally with the deficit spending that's taking place in their government.
So I don't know.
We'll see.
We haven't heard specifically about budgets from customers in the Middle East yet.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee CRT.
Please proceed with your question.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question and it may relate to some of those comments you made about sand control and snubbing but your decrementals were pretty weak sequentially kind of a smaller revenue drop than we saw in the second quarter.
Is there anything behind that we could contemplate as we think about margins going forward? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I'm sorry that we focused so much attention on snubbing and completion tools because it's cast those businesses into a negative light and the reality is they continue to be two of our more profitable businesses today.
And so the revenue decline that we experienced in those businesses did come with some pretty high incrementals relative to the rest of the business because they're businesses that are profitable and have been profitable and continue to be profitable.
So it influences quite a bit.
I mean as I said those two product lines which cumulatively make up only about $300 million in this company's revenue responsible for half of the revenue decline from Q2 to Q3 and about 25% of the gross margin decline.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Wow.
Okay.
That helps.
And as you mentioned I believe earlier in the call about pressure pumping utilization actually being up but prices down.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Agee CRT</span></strong> How – you had commented a couple quarters ago about kind of working – I think I made – it's a little bit off but working for your better customers and continuing to work for them and kind of working with price.
Is that business – where do you stand on that? How much are you willing to utilize equipment for those customers given that you're probably and maybe I'm putting words in your mouth but you're probably working at at best at breakeven and probably a loss in that business right now.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
In general that business in Q2 and in Q3 produced fairly steady margin I would say.
The utilization was a big higher in Q2.
The revenue was a bit higher in Q3 than Q2 but it's contained within 5%.
And overall margins were about flat.
That's a business it's operating.
If you think about it operating in low-single digits to high-single digits EBITDA margin that's where it's going to stay.
The reason for the revenue variance is mainly just related specifically to the customers that we have been working for being a bit more active during the quarter than they were during Q2.
And during Q2 many of our customers and I mentioned this on our last call at certain times during the quarter we're operating at less than 24/7.
So you just think about it being a little bit higher 24/7 utilization that probably explains it.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful commentary.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You got it.
Our next question comes from the line of James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jim.
It sounds like there's no one there operator.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
I think that ends our questions for today.
Thanks to everyone for joining our call and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.