Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Third Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today’s call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Hello everyone.
Earlier today we reported Tiffany’s third quarter results and I hope you’ve had a chance to review the news release.
On today’s call Ralph and I will comment on those results and on the full year outlook.
Before continuing please first note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany’s Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now turning to results.
As an overview Tiffany’s worldwide sales rose 5% in the quarter with mixed performance by region due to a variety of factors that I’ll address in a moment.
There was a 2% negative translation effect from the strengthening U.S dollar.
And sales on a constant exchange rate basis rose 7%.
By product category we saw the greatest strength in fashion jewelry sales.
The operating margin was up from last year resulting from a gross margin increase that more than offset higher SG&amp;A growth.
And that SG&amp;A increase included the stepped up marketing spending that we had discussed on last quarter’s call.
During the quarter we completed a long term bond issuance to prepay high rate existing debt which reduced the future interest expense and extends long term debt maturities.
We recorded a $94 million one-time charge for the debt extinguishment.
Adding it all up Tiffany’s third quarter net earnings increased 5% excluding the charge but declined 60% with the charge.
Let’s now look at regional sales performance in the quarter.
Starting with the Americas region total sales increased 10% in the quarter due to an overall increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold reflecting price increases taken in the Americas and other regions as well but also stronger demand for gold within the fashion jewelry category.
It’s worth noting that there was healthy unit growth in most categories but that was offset by continued unit declines in entry level price point silver jewelry.
We attribute the healthy sales growth from the Americas to a range of factors including more engaging selling initiatives and visual merchandizing in our stores new products compelling marketing and what has been a favorable macro environment for our core customers.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 11% in the quarter and comparable store sales also increased 11% following an 8% comp increase in the first half of this year and compared with a 1% comp increase in the third quarter of last year.
We experienced healthy rates of sales growth in most markets of the U.S.
Sales growth in the New York flagship store benefited from increased local demand while foreign tourist spending was about equal to last year.
In terms of new stores earlier this month we opened a 2 000 square foot store on Boston’s fashionable Newbury Street and expect to soon open a 5 000 square foot store in the exciting Miami Design District.
Elsewhere in the Americas region we were pleased to see solid double digit local currency sales growth in Canada Mexico and Brazil in the quarter.
The Asia pacific region had its challenges in the quarter starting with the difficult comparison to a 22% comp store sales increase last year which at that time had been driven by broad based growth across the region including some statement jewelry sales.
It was a different picture in this third quarter with double digit comp store sales growth in mainland China offset by varying degrees of softness in other markets.
We’d expected only modest comp growth in Asia Pacific in this third quarter.
As we’ve said before Greater China now consisting of a total of 45 stores in mainland China Hong Kong Taiwan and Macao represents more than half of our Asia Pacific sales.
And our nine stores in Hong Kong contribute a meaningful part of those greater China sales.
To no one’s surprise recent protests and demonstrations have led to a decline in visitors coming to Hong Kong which we believe was the primary factor adversely affecting sales at several of our Hong Kong stores including one at their airport.
In total Asia Pacific sales increased 2% due to growth in the engagement jewelry and wedding bands category and the fashion jewelry category.
Looking at results on a constant exchange rate basis total sales also rose 2% and comp store sales declined 3% which as I said reflected mixed performance across most markets but strong comp growth in mainland China.
Regarding new store activity in this region just a week ago we opened our seventh store in Australia in Adelaide and we anticipate opening our 27th store in China in January.
Turning to Japan total sales on a constant exchange rate basis declined 5% in the third quarter due to lower unit volume in all jewelry categories.
And comp store sales declined 6% versus a 5% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
However the Yen averaged 106 to the dollar in the third quarter versus 98 a year ago.
So including that negative translation effect sales in dollars declined 12%.
The Yen has weakened further since the end of the quarter being quoted at 118 to the dollar today.
I presume by now you’re all aware of the extreme volatility in consumer spending before and after an increase in Japan’s consumption tax on April 1st.
As a result Tiffany’s comp store sales on a constant exchange rate basis had increased 30% in the first quarter due to substantial pull forward of demand and then declined 13% in the second quarter.
The return to monthly sales growth is taking longer than anticipated and we believe softness is now being exacerbated by weakening economic conditions.
Despite the volatility our sales in Japan and year to date have grown at a modest single digit rate in Yen as we typically expect over the longer term.
We increased our store count by one in Japan during the quarter when we opened a highly visible 3 000 square foot free standing store in the important Shinjuku area of Tokyo.
While we were pleased with an overall improvement in European sales performance sales results by market were mixed.
Total sales rose 9% in the third quarter due to sales growth in all jewelry categories tied to both higher volume and average price.
And that total sales growth came from higher spending by both local customers and foreign tourists.
Looking at it on a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 10% and comp store sales rose 2% which followed a 5% comp decline in the first half of the year and compared with a 2% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
We saw quite a contrast in European sales results between the UK and the continent.
All countries in which we operate stores in continental Europe achieved varying degrees of comp store sales growth in local currencies tied to both local customer and foreign tourist spending.
However comps continued to decline in the UK reflecting some softness in both customer categories.
In Paris we continue to be very satisfied with the initial sales results and brand enhancing exposure from the major store we opened on the Champs Elysees earlier this year which is serving both foreign visitors and local shoppers.
Lastly we had a solid quarter in our other segment with 28% sales growth in the quarter.
This performance was driven by strong 35% comp store sales growth and the sales in our first company operated store in Moscow which opened earlier this year.
With all the talk about tourism it’s important to think about it from a global perspective.
Tiffany’s expanding store base positions us nicely to benefit where the customers spend locally or when they travel.
Therefore shifts in spending from one market to another whether local or tourist related tied to currency shifts or other macro events become less relevant as long as we are serving the customer somewhere.
Summarizing our worldwide store expansion plans we are on track to have opened 10 stores by the end of this fiscal year and to have closed two older ones.
In total this represents net increases of 3% both in company operated stores and in gross square footage.
In addition to expanding our company operated store base we continue to focus on renovating and in a few cases relocating existing stores to enhance the in-store experience for our customers and to optimize space utilization.
So while we continue to expand our store base at a measured pace it goes without saying that maximizing the quality of distribution is the highest priority.
Beyond stores I just want to reiterate that our websites around the world continue to serve two important functions as sales vehicles but equally important for marketing communication that can drive brand and product awareness and store traffic.
That concludes the regional sales review.
In terms of merchandizing highlights we saw strong growth in our fashion jewelry category and at relatively higher price points.
In the fashion jewelry category which primarily includes jewelry without gemstones we’re delighted with the initial response to our new Tiffany T collection targeted to the style conscious female self-purchase customer with wide ranging and global appeal.
Tiffany T is offered in a range of materials with the majority of designs in yellow white or rose gold with and without diamonds as well as some pieces in sterling silver making the collection available in a wide range of prices from a few hundred dollars up to about $20 000.
For the T collection as well as our successful Atlas collection launched over the past year it’s worth noting that gold jewelry is performing especially well.
Sales in the engagement jewelry and wedding band category rose modestly in the quarter and our relatively new Harmony engagement collection is growing in popularity.
Our expanded Keys collection is also performing well globally with some expansion of styles and fashion in fine jewelry.
Also worth noting is the continued success of our yellow diamond collection Elsa Peretti’s Diamonds by the Yard collection and our beautiful Victoria collection.
Ralph will now review the rest of the earning statement the balance sheet and our full year expectations.
Thank you Mark for that sales review.
Topline results were clearly mixed for a variety of reasons during the quarter but we are executing our strategies well despite the volatile global environment.
I think the key takeaways affecting third quarter results were sales growth benefited from strength in the Americas and improving trends in Europe partially offset by softness in Asia Pacific and Japan.
Healthy fashion jewelry sales growth was led by strength in gold jewelry and operating margin increase that was tied to continued solid gains in gross margin despite a substantial year over year increase in marketing spending.
And we are maintaining our most recent full year earnings outlook.
As Mark provided an update on our sales performance I will now review the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin was 59.5% in the third quarter up from 57% last year due to favorable product and book costs and price increases taken across all product categories and regions as well as strong sales growth in fashion jewelry.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 10% in the third quarter notably reflecting the substantial increase in marketing spending that we planned and had highlighted on our call three months ago.
Much of that marketing increase was tied to the launch of the Tiffany T collection which will continue to substantially lift marketing spending in the fourth quarter as well.
Operating earnings increased 10% on the 5% sales growth and the operating margin increased 70 basis points in the quarter as the higher gross margin more than offset the higher SG&amp;A spending.
As previously disclosed we took a one-time charge in the third quarter for a loss on debt extinguishment tied to prepaying during the quarter $400 million of long term debt that carried an average interest rate of 9.8% with maturities between 2015 and 2019.
The $94 million pretax charge equated to $61 million after tax or fully $0.07 per diluted share.
We replaced it by issuing $550 million of long term debt during the quarter with an average interest rate of 4.4% and maturities of 10 years for $250 million and 30 years for $300 million.
This was an important step to lowering our ongoing interest cost and extend maturities.
Interest and other expenses net in the third quarter was $15 versus $14 million last year.
And the effective income tax rate of 35.5% in the quarter was 3.2 points above last year when we had benefited from a one-time favorable impact of tax regulations as well as differences in geographical mix of earnings.
In total net earnings excluding the debt extinguishment charge rose 5% in the quarter to $99 million or $0.76 per share although net earnings declined 60% including the charge.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the quarter in a strong position with substantial liquidity.
Net inventories at October 31 were up 6% versus year ago to support new stores and product introductions.
We now expect a high single digit increase in net inventories for this year.
Our longer term objective continues to call for keeping inventory growth less than the rate of sales growth.
Capital expenditures of $153 million in the year to date were similar to the $149 million at this time last year.
For the full year we are now forecasting CapEx at $250 million versus $220 million last year with the increase tied to information technology with the development of a global customer relationship management system and more advanced order and inventory management capabilities.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 63 000 shares at an average cost of $92 a share.
This leaves $278 million available for future repurchases under our $300 million three-year program that expires in March of 2017.
Factoring in everything I’ve mentioned in our overall liquidity position at the end of the third quarter we had $383 million of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments versus $521 million a year ago.
The total of short term and long term debt as a percent of stockholders equity was 37% versus 36% a year ago.
I want to wrap up the call with a brief comment on our full year outlook.
We began 2014 projecting net earnings in the range of $4.05 to $4.15 per share or 9% to 11% higher than the adjusted $3.73 per share that was earned in 2013.
We have raised the range twice after reporting first and second quarter results.
And today based on these third quarter results we are affirming our most recent forecast at $4.20 to $4.30 per share excluding the debt extinguishment charge representing estimated full year EPS growth of 13% to 15%.
Our full year forecast now calls for a mid to high single digit percentage increase in worldwide sales in dollars versus our previous high single digit forecast.
We have been feeling some adverse effects from the stronger U.S dollar which would have had a greater effect on the rate of sales growth in the fourth quarter and into next year if the current exchange rates hold where they are now.
We continue to expect a healthy increase in the operating margin for the full year but coming entirely from the higher gross margin.
To conclude Tiffany has performed well so far this year although regional performance outside the Americas has been volatile.
Most importantly we’ve successfully added stores in a number of key markets.
We have expanded our assortment with the exciting Tiffany T collection among others.
We have evolved our marketing communications and we continue to enhance our in-store experience.
Those initiatives position us well going forward.
We wish you happy holidays in the coming weeks and now I’ll turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope you’ve all found this third quarter review to be informative.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 7930515.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions.
Please note on your calendars that we plan to report holiday sales results on January 12 before the market opens and as typical without a conference call.
Thanks for listening.
[No Q&amp;A session for this event] That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.