Please standby.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good day and greetings from our New York headquarters.
Earlier today we reported Tiffany's first quarter results and I hope by now you’ve had chance to review the news release.
On today's call Ralph and I will comment on those results and how they are linked to our growth strategies and then wrap up the call with a few comments on the outlook for the rest of the year.
Before continuing please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Okay.
Starting with the first quarter overview while results were admittedly far from robust they did exceed our expectations and we were pleased with continued progress in executing our key store product and marketing-related initiatives.
Net worldwide sales declined 5% in the first quarter which was better than the 10% decline we had expected due to strong performance in Europe and a smaller than anticipated year-over-year decline in Japan.
On a constant exchange rate basis excluding the translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar worldwide net sales increased 1%.
Going from a 5% sales decline as reported to a 1% sales increase on a constant exchange rate basis shows just how much of a headwind we are feeling from the strong U.S.
dollar in translation alone.
We expect that to continue to one degree or another for the remainder of the year.
Regional total sales performance again on a constant exchange rate basis ranged from a 21% increase in Europe benefiting from strong foreign tourist and local customers spending there to an 18% decline in Japan after a surge in spending there in last year's first quarter.
In addition we continued to experience solid growth in fashion jewelry sales highlighted by the Tiffany T collection.
We enjoyed growth in statement jewelry sales and we began the rollout of our new CT60 watch collection.
The operating margin decline but the higher gross margin was more than offset by higher fixed SG&amp;A expenses specifically higher marketing spending in support of our bridal category and the introduction of our new watches.
In total the better than expected sales performance resulted in net earnings declining 17% to $0.81 per diluted share which again was better than our guidance that had call for an approximate 30% decline.
Let’s now look at regional sales performance.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 3% and comp store sales rose 1% on top of an 8% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
This minimal sales growth in the Americas reflected an increase in domestic spending which was mostly offset by lower foreign tourist spending in the U.S.
especially in New York which we attribute to the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Elsewhere in the Americas we achieved healthy sales growth in Canada and Latin America on a constant exchange rate basis.
In dollars the 1% increase in total Americas sales resulted from favorable average price and mix being largely offset by lower jewelry unit volume tied to weakness at entry-level silver jewelry price points.
We opened one store in the Americas during the quarter in the new Miami design district.
We now operate 123 stores in the region with additional openings planned this year including Tiffany's first store in Chile in Santiago this summer as well as another store in Canada in Ottawa.
Performance in the Asia-Pacific region was mixed in the quarter.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 4% and comp store sales increased 2% compared with a 10% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
We continue to see strong sales growth in China as well as in Australia and Singapore but we continued to experience softness in Hong Kong and Macau as we believe some Chinese tourists have been traveling to and shopping in other regions.
Measured in U.S.
dollars Asia-Pacific sales declined 1% in the quarter.
We experienced higher average price and mix which was outweighed by a decline in jewelry units sold in the region reflecting the meaningful sales weaknesses in Hong Kong and in entry-level silver jewelry.
During the first quarter we opened two stores in China in Hangzhou and in Shanghai and finished the quarter operating 75 Tiffany stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
So far in the second quarter we've opened a store in [Hangzhou] [ph] China and just today we opened in the newly expanded Galaxy Macau.
We have additional openings planned for the rest of the year including our first store in Thailand in Bangkok.
Now let's turn to Japan where the focus in the quarter was frankly all about getting past a very difficult year-over-year comparison.
In last year's first quarter we achieved 30% comp store sales growth in yen when customer demand surged in anticipation of a consumption tax increase on April 1st.
Though it was not surprising to us that comp store sales in this year's first quarter declined 24% in yen.
We now face easier year-over-year comparisons in Japan for the rest of the year.
That 24% comp decline in yen in the quarter or 18% on a total sales basis was due to a substantial decline in jewelry units sold.
The yen was 12% weaker on average than in the first quarter of last year.
So when translated into dollars total sales in Japan declined 30% in the first quarter.
We believe such a substantial weakening of the yen has affected spending by Japanese tourists when they travel but might be supporting some local spending in Japan.
In addition we're benefiting in Japan from increasing spending by foreign tourists especially from China.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 56 company-operated locations.
All-in-all our business in Japan has experienced substantial volatility over the past year.
And we definitely look forward to some stabilization going forward.
In Europe strong foreign tourist spending as well as higher local customer demand drove a substantial 21% increase in total sales on a constant exchange rate basis with double-digit growth across most of continental Europe.
Comp stores sales on the constant exchange rate basis rose 17% compared with a 3% comp decline in last year's first quarter.
The euro and the pound have weakened considerably against the U.S.
dollar over the past year.
And when translated into U.S.
dollars total sales in Europe rose 2% in the quarter reflecting favorable price and mix with total unit volume unchanged from last year but varying by category.
Those weaker currencies have certainly made it increasingly attractive at the moment for foreign tourist to shop in Europe and Tiffany is benefiting from it.
It was almost a year ago when we opened a major store in Paris on the Champs Élysées which is serving considerable numbers of foreign tourists and local customers too.
We see significant long-term opportunities to further expand our company-operated store base in made for European markets.
As examples last week we opened our first store in Geneva.
The 550 square meter two-level store is located on the Rue du Rhone marking our third store in Switzerland and 39th store in Europe.
And later this year we plan to open on the fashionable Via Condotti in Rome representing Tiffany’s third store in that important city.
Lastly sales in our other segment which is a small component of our overall sales rose 1% in the quarter on a constant exchange rate basis with flat comps and declined 6% in dollars.
This segment includes retail store sales in the United Arab Emirates and Russia as well as wholesale diamond sales and some third-party licensing revenues.
From a store expansion perspective we remain on track to increase our company-operated stores by a net of approximately 12 to 15 stores this year.
More than half of the openings are planned in Asia-Pacific with the balance in the Americas and Europe.
This represents a 4% to 5% net increase in our company-operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
Beyond opening new stores however we are also pursuing a strategy to enhance the existing store base through renovations as well as by relocating some stores to more favorable locations.
In fact we are scheduled for approximately 10 relocations this year and we're always focused on adding interesting and relevant content to our website that can also help to drive store traffic.
We intend to be active in all of these areas in 2015 supporting our broader strategy to elevate the in-store and online experience and ultimately better engage and strengthen relationships with existing and new customers.
In terms of noteworthy highlights within our product categories and collections fashion jewelry was a strong performer in the quarter.
The strength in fashion continued to be led by gold jewelry designs.
A significant contributor to fashion jewelry sales is the TIFFANY T collection that we launched last fall.
The collection continues to be well received by customers globally and is an important part of our strategy to expand our reach among style seeking self purchasers.
And as we mentioned on our last call TIFFANY T has been posting our highest ever transaction size for a new fashion collection.
Also in fashion jewelry our T’s collection continues to perform quite well especially benefiting from its expanded assortment.
However we continue to experience weakness in silver jewelry sales before $500.
We are focused on addressing this issue over the balance of the year through product development and advertising targeted at what we call our little luxuries.
Sales in the engagement jewelry and wedding bands category were soft year-over-year with Japan accounting for most of the sales decline tied to the surge in spending in last year’s first quarter.
So going forward we hope to see better performance in that category and we continue to be pleased with sales in the harmony collection and its recently expanded assortment.
Spanning the engagement and the statement fine and solitaire jewelry categories is our beautiful Soleste collection which performed well in the quarter.
In addition we are planning to introduce some compelling additions to existing fine jewelry collections later this year to address softness in the fine jewelry category.
In contrast to that softness in fine jewelry performance we’re very pleased with strong growth in statement jewelry sales in the quarter.
In April we hosted our Annual Blue Book event in New York with select customers in fashion media attending from around the world to see our new couture collection of magnificent jewelry with the theme The Art of the Sea.
It was a truly memorable and successful event.
Rounding out the product review in April we launched our CT60 collection of watches inspired by designs in Tiffany’s archives.
This brilliant collection is now being rolled out globally to Tiffany stores and consistent with our strategy we are supporting the launch with extensive marketing to strengthen credibility and success in that category.
While it’s way too early to talk about results we can say that initial reaction from customers and the media has been very good.
In summary we remain keenly focused on our key strategies surrounding stores customer engagement products and marketing.
I will now turn the call over to Ralph to continue the financial and strategic review.
Thank you Mark for the sales review.
First I would like to point out a few overall highlights of the quarter.
The strong U.S.
dollar was a significant headwind on the translation of results transacted outside the U.S.
having a 6% negative effect on worldwide sales as well as impacting foreign tourist spending in the U.S.
Gross margin continued to improve as expected.
We brought into our marketing focus beyond the Tiffany T collection with new engagement and watch campaigns.
Our sales results contributed to a smaller than expected decline in net earnings.
However as it is early in the year and in light of continuing macro challenges and our assumptions about the direction of currency movements we think it is prudent to maintain and not increase our earnings outlook for the year.
Let’s now take a look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 59.1% in the quarter was nine-tenths of a point higher than last year reflecting many factors.
We continue to benefit to some degree from lower product input costs while also taking some single-digit price increases globally in the first quarter that partly offset the effect of the weaker foreign currencies.
Part of the gross margin increase also came from the absence of a one-time charge that we incurred in last year’s first quarter for the closing of a diamond polishing facility.
In addition the favorable effect from higher margin fashion jewelry sales was offset by solid growth in much lower margin statement jewelry sales as well as the sales decline in Japan which had a negative effect on gross margin.
We continue to expect a modest increase in gross margin in 2015 as those favorable product input costs diminished over the remainder of the year.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 5% in the quarter largely due as expected to marketing spending partly tied to our new Will You? engagement campaign and the launch of the CT60 watch collection.
In addition incremental U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit cost affected the SG&amp;A expense increase.
We continue to expect that SG&amp;A expenses will grow at a rate exceeding sales growth for the full year reflecting the items that I just mentioned.
The increased expense for our U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit plans will total approximately $30 million for the full year.
However we do expect some improvement in the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales in the second half of the year.
Our forecast continues to reflect operating earnings for the full year approximately equal to the prior year.
Interest and other expenses net declined in the quarter as expected from our debt refinancing in 2014.
In addition to a lesser extent we benefited from some year-over-year changes in foreign currency transaction gains.
We continue to assume interest and other expenses net at approximately $50 million in 2015.
The effective tax rate of 34.7% in the first quarter was slightly lower than the 35.1% rate in the first quarter of last year.
We also continue to base our earnings forecast on an effective tax rate in 2015 virtually unchanged from last year’s 34.4%.
In total we were projecting net earnings to decline 30% in the first quarter due to the pressures from the strong dollar the difficult comparison in Japan and softness in the U.S.
However the smaller sales decline led to a smaller-than-expected 17% decline in net earnings.
Although let’s keep in mind that the first quarter is the smallest quarter of the year.
We’re also pleased with the strength of Tiffany’s balance sheet which is consistent with our financial strategy.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $715 million at April 30th.
Short and long-term debt totaled almost $1.1 billion or 37% of stockholders equity versus 35% a year ago.
We have more than adequate resources to support the growth of our business and to provide for potential opportunities to return some excess cash to shareholders.
Net inventories of $2.4 billion at April 30th were 2% lower than a year ago.
That overall decrease included a small increase in finished goods that was more than offset by a decline in combined raw material and work-in-process inventories.
On a constant exchange basis inventories would have increased 2% due to new stores and product introductions.
Our strategy for this year and over the long-term is to keep inventory growth below the rate of sales growth through better productivity in our stores as well as in our overall supply chain.
Accounts receivable of $192 million at April 30th was virtually unchanged from a year ago with receivable turnover staying at 21 times per year.
Capital expenditures were $37 million in the first quarter versus $35 million a year ago.
Our forecast continues to be based on CapEx at about $260 million for 2015 with considerable spending devoted to stores and for new IT systems such as Global CRM and inventory management among others.
In terms of share repurchases we spent $33 million in the first quarter to buy approximately 380 000 shares.
At April 30th we had approximately $240 million available for future repurchases under the current authorization that runs through March of 2017.
On a trailing basis at April 30th Tiffany's return on assets was 9% and the return on stockholders equity was 16% both of which are close to our long-term objectives to achieve a minimum of 10% ROA and a 15% ROE.
Before including my remarks I want to comment on our full-year financial forecast.
As I noted at the beginning of my remarks we were pleased that the sales and earnings came in somewhat better than our expectations for the first quarter but because it's still early in the year we believe we should maintain our existing forecast in light of the strong dollar and lingering macro and market conditions and uncertainties.
Our full year assumption of mid single-digit percentage worldwide sales increased on a constant exchange basis assumes varying degrees of growth across all regions.
However we expect continued pressures from the strong dollar that may possibly only begin to abate much later in the year if at all resulting in a low single-digit full year worldwide sales increase when translated into dollars.
Our unchanged forecast of minimal earnings growth versus the $4.20 per share we earned last year on a non-GAAP basis continues to incorporate an expected earnings decline in the second quarter at a more moderate rate than in the first quarter as well as our assumptions of minimal sales growth but higher growth in SG&amp;A expense again tied to marketing spending.
We then continue to expect double-digit earnings growth in the second half of the year.
So it’s a plan built on progressively improving sales and earnings performance as we move through the year.
And as we said on our last conference call that minimal expected growth in earnings for the year will be more like a high single-digit increase if we excluded the estimated negative translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar and the cost from the incremental $30 million of pension expense.
In conclusion we believe that Tiffany is increasingly well-positioned as one of the world's most important luxury brands and has the potential to be more productive and profitable over the long-term.
We have the growth opportunities very sound strategies a talent management -- talented management team and we’re investing in important systems and capabilities and have financial resources to pursue those strategies.
We believe we’ve had a decent start to the year all things considered and appreciate your interest in Tiffany.
I’ll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope all of you now have a fuller understanding of our financial results and our plans.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 3506887.
Of course you should feel free to call me with any questions.
And note on your calendars that we expect to report second quarter results on August 27th before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.