Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good day everyone.
We reported Tiffany's second quarter results earlier today.
So hopefully you've read the news release.
I am coming to you this morning from New York while that’s evening in Shanghai where Ralph is joining us on this call.
On today's call we will review the quarterly results and how they relate to our growth strategies and then comment on the outlook for the rest of the year.
Before continuing please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
So from an overall perspective second quarter financial results from the top line to the bottom line continued to be significantly pressured by the strong U.S.
dollar and worldwide net sales as reported were flat to last year.
However excluding the substantial negative translation effect from that strong dollar second quarter worldwide sales rose 7% ranging from an increase of 27% in Japan to 19% in Europe to 9% in Asia-Pacific to the Americas were sales were unchanged from the prior year.
And lastly to other sales which declined 27% all of which I'll explain in a moment.
The strong dollar has also had meaningful and diverging effects on foreign tourists spending by region.
We added six new stores in the quarter and expanded our product assortment with new jewelry and watch designs.
Gross margin was unchanged in the quarter and the SG&amp;A expense ratio rose.
We also recorded an impairment charge of approximately $10 million or $0.05 per diluted share for a portion of a loan we made to a diamond mining company.
As a result net earnings declined 16% in the quarter but excluding the impairment charge net earnings declined 10% on a non-GAAP basis which was inline with our expectation.
Let's now look at sales performance by region in the second quarter.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis both total and comparable store sales were equal to last year which compared with an 8% comp increase in last year's second quarter.
And looking forward we are facing another tough comparison to an 11% comp increase in last year's third quarter.
In this second quarter once again higher domestic spending in the Americas largely tied to strengthen statement jewelry sales was offset by lower foreign tourists spending in the U.S.
especially in New York and Hawaii which we attribute primarily to the effect from the strong U.S.
dollar.
But generally speaking our sales results in the Americas in the second quarter and first half apart from the strength at the highest statement jewelry price points have reflected varying degrees of softness across much of the U.S.
Conversely comp store sales in Canada and Latin America have been strong.
In dollars total sales in the Americas declined 2% as favorable price and mix was offset by lower jewelry unit volume largely tied to continued weakness at entry-level silver jewelry price points as well as the unit decline in fine jewelry.
We opened one store in the Americas during the quarter in Rideau Centre in Ottawa replacing an older store that we had closed last year.
And we are looking forward to opening Tiffany's first store in Chile in Santiago next month.
Also we recently relocated one of our shops in Montréal from Holt Renfrew to the nearby Ogilvy department store.
We will soon be relocating our store in Denver's Cherry Creek Mall to an enhanced location within the mall.
We are in the process of doing a similar relocation of our Century City store in L.A.
and we are relocating a department store location in Mexico.
All of which exemplify our strategy to optimize the quality of our distribution base.
Moving to the Asia-Pacific region sales on a constant exchange rate basis rose 9% in total led by fashion gold jewelry and statement jewelry sales while comp store sales increased 6% on top of the 7% increase in last year's second quarter.
As we saw in the first quarter performance in the region was once again mixed and led by double-digit sales growth in China and Australia as well as varying degrees of growth in most other markets.
However our stores in Hong Kong and Macau continue to experience weakness that began in the second half of last year as we believe a number of Chinese tourists have shifted their traveling and shopping to other markets at least for the moment.
In addition while our sales rose in Korea in the quarter we believe the rate of growth was constrained by foreign tourists who avoided traveling to Korea during the MERS outbreak.
It is possible that an improvement in sales growth maybe gradual as foreign tourists bookings take some time to improve.
With regard to recent news from China in the same way that it's not possible to quantify the positive wealth effect from a rising stock market on our sales growth there in the past couple of years.
It’s similarly difficult to predict any potential negative effect on sales in magnitude or duration from their recent stock market correction or currency devaluation.
But most important Tiffany remains focused on the long-term growth opportunity to serve Chinese consumers both locally and globally and we have not in any way altered our strategies.
When measured in U.S.
dollars the total Asia-Pacific sales increased 4% due to favorable price and mix.
We expanded Tiffany's presence by adding four new stores in the Asia-Pacific region during the second quarter including our first Company-operated store in Thailand in the Emporium Shopping Complex in Bangkok.
Our 29<sup>th</sup> and 30<sup>th</sup> stores in China in Hangzhou and in Chengdu and our third store in Macau in the newly expanded Galaxy.
We are planning five additional store openings across the region in the second half of the year as well as three closings all consistent with our global store strategy.
Now let's look at Japan and its local currency sales performance.
We think one can only really evaluate our results this year in Japan by reflecting on the dramatic sales volatility we experienced last year when comp store sales had increased 30% in yen in the first quarter due to a pull forward of customer demand and anticipation of the consumption tax increase on April 1 followed by a 13% comp decline in last year's second quarter.
So we clearly had an easier comparison in this second quarter but nonetheless we were very pleased with the 21% comp increase that we achieved in the second quarter and year-over-year comparisons in Japan are frankly also relatively easy for the balance of the year.
The 27% total sales growth in the yen in the quarter was due in similar degrees to both unit volume increases across all jewelry categories as well as favorable price and mix.
In addition while our sales in Japan are largely made to Japanese customers the year-over-year sales growth has been due to increase sales to foreign tourists particularly Chinese visitors which are perhaps tied to some degree to the attractiveness arising from the weaker yen.
And due to the substantially weaker yen versus last year that 27% total sales growth in yen in the second quarter was reduced to 5% when translated into U.S.
dollars.
To repeat something we said on our last call we believe the weaker yen has affected spending by Japanese tourists when they travel but conversely might be generating local sales demand in Japan.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 56 Company-operated locations but we are enhancing our store base by relocating two department store base locations this year.
In terms of our business in Europe we were certainly pleased with the continuation of very strong local currency sales growth in the second quarter.
On a constant exchange rate basis both total and comparable store sales rose 19% compared with an 8% comp decline in last year's second quarter when we were seeing broad-based softness across Europe at that time.
However sales growth in this second quarter was geographically broad-based across continental Europe and in the UK reflecting strong sales growth to foreign tourists as well as to a lesser extent an increase to local customers.
Engagement jewelry was the strongest category in Europe in the quarter.
To perhaps state the obvious the euro and pound have weakened against the dollar in the past year.
This has attracted foreign tourists to shop in Europe while potentially discouraging some Europeans from shopping abroad and instead encouraging them to spend locally.
Our performance in Europe reflects both phenomena.
When translated into U.S.
dollars total second quarter sales in Europe increased 2% due to favorable price and mix.
During the second quarter we opened 550 square meter two-level store on the fashionable Rue du Rhône in Geneva.
We also recently relocated our store within Selfridges in London to a more prominent location within that store and are relocating our store within Harrods to a new location within that store.
We now operate 39 stores in Europe and believe there are considerable long-term opportunities to further develop our company operated European store base.
Rounding out the segment review are other sales which represented only 2% of worldwide sales in the quarter and includes retail store sales in the United Arab Emirates and Russia as well as wholesale diamond sales and some third-party licensing revenue.
Other sales on a constant exchange rate basis declined 27% total in the second quarter largely due to lower wholesale sales of diamonds.
On the other hand comp store sales were up 8%.
Earlier this year we were pleased to relocate our store in the Mall of the Emirates in Dubai taking advantage of the opportunity to update to our current store design and to expand the size of the store.
We mentioned in the regional commentaries that store openings are complemented by store renovations relocations and several closings this year.
Totaling up this activity both completed and planned we are on track to increase our Company-operated worldwide store base by a net of 12 stores this year representing a 4% net increase in both our Company-operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
At the same time our strategy is to enhance our website with compelling content that builds brand and product awareness and drive store traffic.
All of these initiatives support our broader global strategy to more effectively engage customers and enhance their experience and relationship with Tiffany.
In terms of a few merchandising highlights as measured in dollars the strongest performer in the quarter was the fashion jewelry category with a continued shift toward gold jewelry.
Our statement fine and solitaire category was mixed with substantial growth and high-end statement jewelry but some softness in fine jewelry.
And there was a bit of softness in the engagement jewelry category as well.
Product innovation is an important strategy at Tiffany which consists of introducing entirely new design collections but also periodically expanding refreshing and reinterpreting existing collections.
An excellent example of newness and a strong contributor to growth in fashion jewelry sales is the Tiffany T collection that we launched about a year ago.
The collection continues to successfully attract style seeking customers as well as those purchasing gifts and is one of the reasons we've seen strength in gold jewelry sales.
Another successful collection worth mentioning is our diamond focused Soleste collection which spans engagement and fine jewelry.
When we speak about expanding existing collections with new designs one example is our popular Return to Tiffany collection with a particular focus on pieces and silver.
In addition our fall ad campaign will also feature new interpretations of other iconic jewelry collections including Victoria and Tiffany Bow in fine jewelry and the Infinity fashion jewelry collection in gold and silver.
So there will be a wide range of newness in our assortment this fall with freshness intended to improve overall sales growth and to also reinvigorate the silver jewelry category.
Lastly we recently completed the months long global rollout of CT60 collection of watches as previously discussed we are supporting the watch category with extensive marketing to strengthen product awareness and brand credibility and heritage.
And we’re pleased with initial reactions from customers and the media.
So that covers the sales highlights.
I am now pleased to turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark and hello everyone.
I'm in China this week visiting many of our locations to stay close to the numerous growth opportunities for us to pursue here.
Now I will get right into our second quarter results in a few key takeaways.
The strong U.S.
dollar continued to be a significant headwind on the translation of our results transacted outside the United States having a 7% negative effect on worldwide sales.
It also continued to have a significant negative effect on tourist spending in the U.S.
a decline in the operating margin reflected a lack of SG&amp;A expense leverage higher marketing spending and an impairment charge tied to a loan to a diamond mining company.
Net earnings declined 16% as reported but excluding the impairment charge net earnings declined 10% on a non-GAAP basis which was a smaller rate of decline than in the first quarter and in line with our expectation.
But in light of the strong U.S.
dollar and macro uncertainties we modestly tempered our full-year expectations for net earnings and to be sure it's not overlooked we are pleased with inventory performance and cash flow year-to-date.
Let’s briefly review the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 59.9% in the second quarter was unchanged from the prior year due to the favorable effects of product input costs and lower wholesale sales of diamonds which typically earn minimal if any margin but also the negative effect from shifts in product mix especially contrasting the relatively low gross margins of high price point statement jewelry sales which were strong with relatively high gross margins of silver jewelry sales which were weak.
In addition previous price increases taken have been offset by the unfavorable effect of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
We are now in the process of further raising prices in regions that have experienced the most dramatic weakness in their currencies versus the dollar while also taking some modest increases in other regions.
For the full-year we continue to expect a modest increase in gross margin.
On a related note I should add that the more recent declines we’ve seen in precious metals spot prices this year should eventually result in some benefit to gross margin but it will take some time based on the rate of inventory turnover.
Similarly you may have seen recent industry reports that softening global demand has resulted in a retreat in diamond costs albeit less pronounced for high-quality stones.
While this has some favorable effect on our acquisition cost now again there is a long lead time before we will see any benefit in gross margin.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 9% in the quarter and would have increased 6% excluding a roughly $10 million impairment charge for a portion of a loan to a diamond mining company.
In both of those year-over-year comparisons SG&amp;A growth was reduced by 5% due to the translation effect of the strong dollar.
Similar to the first quarter the SG&amp;A increase reflected higher marketing spending as expected partially tied to a bridal campaign and the launch of our watch collection.
We also recorded a portion of the $30 million of annual incremental U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit costs.
There were also increases in labor and store related occupancy costs as well but we expect the SG&amp;A expense ratio to increase in the full-year due to the lack of sales leverage we do expect some improvement in the ratio in the fourth quarter.
In regard to the impairment charge for many years we have occasionally entered into financing arrangements with diamond mining companies as part of a strategy to secure high-quality diamond supply based on recent developments associated with the contractual terms of our agreement with the Koidu mine in Sierra Leone.
We determined that it is probable that a portion of that loan will not be collectible in accordance with the contract terms.
Therefore we recorded the charge and as you could see in today's 10-Q filing the situation is still evolving.
In total our forecast which excludes the impairment charge in any potential future similar charges now calls for operating earnings for the full-year to be modestly below last year.
Interest and other expenses net in the quarter was below last year from our refinancing of long-term debt to lower rates in the third quarter of 2014.
In addition the year-over-year delta also included modest foreign currency transaction losses in the second quarter after we benefited from some gains in the first quarter.
We continue to project interest and other expense net at approximately $50 million in 2015.
The second quarter's effective tax rate was less than last year’s second quarter as we expected.
Last year's rate was somewhat inflated by changes in tax legislation while this year's rate benefited from a reduction in a tax valuation allowance.
We continue to forecast an effective tax rate in 2015 similar to last year's rate of 34.4%.
Tiffany's balance sheet remains strong at the end of the quarter.
Total cash and short-term investments were $771 million at January 31.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled just over $1 billion representing 37% of stockholders equity.
As we have stated in the past our financial strategy is to maintain more than adequate resources to support the growth of our business regardless of short-term economic cyclicality.
At the same time we also regularly consider appropriate opportunities to return excess cash to shareholders through dividend growth and share repurchases.
As examples we recently increased our quarterly dividend by 5% which represented the 14 dividend increase in the past 13 years and we spent approximately $56 million in the first half of the year to repurchase our shares at an average cost of $88 per share.
At July 31 we had approximately $217 million available for repurchases under the current authorization that runs through March of 2017.
Our strategy for inventories is to always maintain deep assortments and high availability in our stores but our goal for this year and beyond is to also keep inventory growth below the rate of sales growth by achieving better productivity in our stores as well as in our overall supply chain.
At July 31 net inventories were 7% lower than a year ago.
When excluding the effect of translation of the strong U.S.
dollar inventory still declined by 2% compared with the first half 4% increase in worldwide sales on a constant exchange basis.
Capital expenditures of $98 million in the first half were up slightly from $91 million a year ago.
Our forecast continues to call for spending about $260 million this year with an emphasis on stores and also new IT systems being implemented over several years such as for global customer relationship management and inventory management.
Lastly we think it's prudent to revise modestly downward our full-year net earnings forecast in light of the dollar being even stronger than we initially anticipated as well as ongoing external volatilities.
We had previously forecast minimum earnings growth on top of the $4.20 per share excluding a debt extinguishment charge last year.
Now we are forecasting net earnings 2% to 5% below last year when excluding the loan impairment charge taken in the second quarter and any further similar charges that could potentially be recorded later in the year.
In addition this assumes no net earnings growth in the third quarter versus EPS of $0.76 per share in last year's third quarter which excluded the debt extinguishment charge and then we expect the resumption of earnings growth in the fourth quarter.
In conclusion we met our overall expectations in the first half of the year despite the significant adverse effects from the strong dollar.
Looking forward we are pursuing numerous initiatives tied to further expanding and enhancing our global store base product development and effective marketing communications in order to strengthen Tiffany's relationship with its customers.
So we intend to stay focused on global growth opportunities ahead of us.
I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph for dialing in from Shanghai.
We hope all of you on the call now have a better understanding of the second quarter results and our strategies.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 2738523.
Please call me with any questions and note on your calendars that we expect to report third quarter results on November 24 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Thank you for your participation.