Please standby we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Mr.
Frederic Cumenal Tiffany's CEO; and Mr.
Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning everyone.
We issued Tiffany's fourth quarter financial results earlier today and hope you have had the chance to read the news release.
On today's agenda I will review sales results Ralph will cover the rest of the earnings statements and the balance sheet and the 2016 outlook and then Frederic will close with some comments on strategy before we then answer your questions.
Before continuing please note the statements made on this call that are not historical facts or forward-looking statements actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
I think we can begin with a candid assessment that overall financial results 2015 were disappointing.
On the positive side we accomplished many on-going strategic initiatives tied to expanding and optimizing our store base and web presence introducing new product designs that resonated with customers managing inventories well and achieving strong free cash flow.
We improve Tiffany's gross margin by full point in the year and managed our SG&amp;A expenses prudently while increasing marketing spending.
However a worldwide sales increase of only 2% on a constant exchange rate basis and 3% decline as reported combing with the 9% decline in EPS excluding charges in 2014 &amp; 2015 clearly did not meet our initial targets.
For a good part of the year we achieved healthy sales growth on a constant exchange rate basis in most regions outside the U.S.
But sales were negatively affected by the translation effect of strong U.S.
dollar.
In the Americas our largest region we faced the daunting challenges in the U.S.
of sharply lowered foreign tourists spending along with weaker sales to domestic customers.
And then the year concluded on a softer note in most markets around the world.
While we can attribute some of the pressure on results of the strong U.S.
dollar and other macro factors that affected consumer spending bot with local customers and foreign tourists which we expect will continue into 2016 as Frederic will discuss.
We continue to focus on catalyst to drive our business effectively and efficiently as we invest in longer term growth opportunities.
And wrapping up the summary on a positive note our disciplined inventory management enabled us to exceed our objective for free cash flow.
While a portion of that cash gets reinvested into growing our business we also were pleased to return cash to shareholders through dividends including our fourteenth dividend increase in the past 13 years and share repurchases with our board authorizing a new and larger purchase program in January.
For now let's look at sales performance in our various regions.
First there were no meaningful changed in the geographical mix in 2015 versus 2014.
With the Americas again representing just under 50% of worldwide sales followed by Asia-Pacific at 24% Japan at 13% and Europe at 12%.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis total and comp store sales in the full year were down 2% and 4% and trends were a bit softer in the fourth quarter with declines of 6% and 8%.
In dollars total sales declined 4% in the full year and 8% in the fourth quarter reflecting lower unit volume in the cross categories especially in silver jewelry under $500 partly offset by favorable pricing mix.
I already mentioned the adverse effect from the strong U.S.
dollar on foreign tourist's sales in Americas.
Although it cannot be tracked precisely we now estimate that foreign tourist's sales represent less than a quarter of U.S.
sales for roughly 40% of the sales in New York flagship store.
We saw a marked deceleration in Chinese tourist's spending in the fourth quarter in the Americas and frankly in most other regions as well.
In addition it's worth noting that domestic sales were also generally soft across the U.S.
in varying degrees in the full year and more so in the fourth quarter.
However we were pleased with local currency total sales growth in Canada and Latin America.
During the year we added a net of two stores in Americas.
Opening in the U.S.
in the Miami design district in Ottawa Canada and in Santiago Chile and closing the U.S.
store in the Mohegan Sun Resort.
We also relocated a few stores in the Americas region in line with our strategy to optimize our store base and continue with the worldwide program to renovate stores to a new design aesthetic.
In the Asia-Pacific region on a constant exchange rate basis total sales in the full year rose 3% and comparable store runs unchanged.
While total in comp stores sales softened in the fourth quarter declining 3% and 8%.
Within the region Greater China is comprised of the 51 total stores we operate across China Hong Kong Taiwan and Macau and represents more than half of the total sales of the region.
For the year we experienced some growth throughout most markets in the Asia-Pacific region led by strengths in mainland China and Australia but we also saw substantial softness in Hong Kong.
Growth decelerated in the fourth quarter across most of the region reflecting the further softening of Chinese tourist spending that I alluded to earlier.
Spending within China was strong throughout the fourth quarter but it's been more volatile since then.
In addition there is clearly no way to predict when sales growth will resume in Hong Kong so we are assuming that softness will continue through 2016.
When measured in U.S.
dollars total Asia-Pacific sales declined 2% in the full year and 8% in the fourth quarter due to generally lower jewelry unit's volume in most categories partly offset by higher average pricing mix.
We continue to be pleased with our progress in developing brand awareness of Tiffany with the Chinese customers.
Volatile economies currencies and soft markets certainly effect short term spending by customers of all nationalities including those in China.
However we remain committed to serving the growing desires of those customers seeking extraordinary jewelry of the finest quality and with a wonderful in-store experience.
It was substantial store activity across the Asia-Pacific region during the year with the net addition of 8 stores.
We opened 11 stores including 5 in China 2 in Macau and 1 each in Korea Singapore Taiwan and Thailand.
We also closed 3 existing stores in the region including one each in China Korea and Taiwan.
Now turning to Japan we had a very successful year in 2015.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 10% and comp stores sales rose 5% in the full year and we finished with increases of 12% in total sales and 10% in comps in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the year our results in Japan benefitted from higher foreign tourists spending predominantly Chinese while domestic customer spending fluctuated and was roughly unchanged for the full year.
The weaker Yen versus the Dollar had a substantially negative effect on the translation of those sales into dollars in the year although less so in the fourth quarter.
And when measured in dollars total sales in Japan declined 2% in the full year but rose 9% in the fourth quarter.
We kept the number of company operated stores in Japan and unchanged at 56.
Although during the year we expanded two stores and relocated two others.
We also achieved strong sales growth in Europe through most of the year on a constant exchange rate basis due to a combination of higher foreign tourist spending likely tied to a weak Euro in town as well as local customer demand.
For sales growth decelerated considerably in the fourth quarter especially in France following the tragedy in Paris that reverberated across other countries in the region as well.
However for the full year on a constant exchange rate basis total and comparable store sales grow 12% and 9% with strength across continental Europe and the U.K.
which represents the vast 40% of our European sales.
In the fourth quarter however total sales grows 2% and comp store sales declined 3% due to the pronounced softness and France and mixed results elsewhere.
When translated into U.S.
Dollars total sales in Europe declined 1% in the full year and 6% in the fourth quarter partly due to modest declines in jewelry unit volume as well as lower average price that was largely currency related.
We were active on the store fronts in Europe in 2015 opening our first store in Geneva and our second in Madrid and we also enhanced our store presence in London with relocations in both Harrods and Selfridges.
We also now include our Moscow store which has been posting strong growth since opening in early 2014 within the Europe region instead of in the other segments.
We concluded 2015 with 41 stores in Europe and last month we opened the third store in Rome on Via dei Condotti.
Lastly other sales declined 13% in the full year and were down 6% in the fourth quarter.
Both periods were affected by comp store sales declines in our stores in the UAE and there were lower wholesale sales in diamonds in the full year.
From my comments on this region you can see that it was an active year on the store development front as we continue to optimize our store based partly with store openings but also with a substantial number of renovations and relocations and some closings.
The ultimate objective is to drive better topline growth through stronger comparable store sales growth rather than from simply opening substantial numbers of stores.
For the full year we opened 16 stores and closed four representing a 4% increase on the number of company-operated stores and a corresponding 4% increase in worldwide gross square footage.
Our plan for 2016 is open 11 stores across most regions while also closing or relocating some existing ones resulting in a 2% net increase in company-operated retail square footage.
The longer term expectation is to approximately maintain that square footage gross rate.
In terms of store productivity worldwide sales per gross square foot for company-operated stores declined slightly $2 900 compared with $3 100 per foot in 2014 resulting from the 4% increase in worldwide square footage for lesser growth in sales.
By regions sales productivity in 2015 ranged from $4 300 in Asia Pacific to $3 100 in Japan to $2 900 in Europe to $2 300 in the Americas region.
Of course keep in mind that the negative translation effect on sales from the strong dollar had a meaningful effect on any decline in productivity.
Before concluding the regional sales review it's worth reminding everyone of the meaningful benefits that we derive from complementing our store presence with our website which reinforce brand and product awareness and can drive store traffic.
E-commerce sales in dollars grows modestly in the full year which was better than the 3% worldwide sales decline and continue to represent 6% of worldwide sales.
This dual focus on stores and online supports our global strategy to enhance our relationships with customers and optimize their overall experiences with Tiffany.
Finally from a merchandising perspective the decline fourth quarter sales did not include any significant differences in performance among our product categories on a worldwide basis.
For the full year the 3% worldwide sales decline in dollars or the 2% increase on the constant exchange rate basis included virtually in line performance relative to overall sales for the statement fine and solitaire jewelry category.
Although with strong sales growth with statement jewelry.
In line relative performance for the fashion jewelry category although with continued strong gold jewelry sales and a slight relative underperformance in the engagement jewelry category although a new marketing campaign that we launched last month is intended to address that engagement softness.
We were pleased with customer response to new products that we introduced in the fashion and fine jewelry categories including design reinterpretation in our Return to Tiffany and Infinity collections which have been successful in mitigating some of the softness in silver jewelry sales under $500.
Our new designs in the Victoria and Bow fine jewelry collections including diamonds the continued success of the Tiffany T collection which reached the highest sales level ever for a jewelry collection in its first 12 months and we were pleased with sales of our new watch collections including the CT60 and the East West collections.
So that covers the regional and product sales highlights and I'll now turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark.
For forward looking and the rest of the results I would like to reinforce some few points.
Sales force was challenged by the strong U.S.
dollar throughout the year both on the effect on the translation of results and the effect on tourist spending in the U.S.
While we saw a higher gross margin in the full year and fourth quarter the operating margin was pressured all year by the lack of sales growth and the resulting sales deleverage on SG&amp;A expenses.
A 9% decline in EPS for the full year excluding charges in 2015 and 2014 was below our initial expectation a year ago that had called for minimal growth.
However we managed the inventories more efficiently meeting our objective to keep inventory growth below sales growth and finished the year generating higher amount of free cash flow of then initially planned.
We return cash to shareholders to substantial share repurchases and another increase in dividend and we expect the further strengthening of the dollar along with challenging and volatile external conditions that affect customer spending to continue to pressure results in 2016 and especially in the first half of the year.
Let's look at the rest of the earnings statement the balance sheet and our forecast.
Gross margin grows in the full year and the fourth quarter.
We benefitted throughout the year to varying degrees from favorable product input cost while sales mix fluctuated during the year.
We also took price increases during the year that addressed most of the pressure from the strong dollar and has enabled us to restore our global pricing structure pretty much back to normal levels.
Our forecast for gross margin in 2016 close to some increase primarily due to lower product input cost as well as benefits from price increases taken within the past year and anticipated modest increases in the coming year.
For our expectation for minimum sales growth will continue to put some pressure on gross margin as it will be difficult to get sales leverage on fixed cost.
Selling general and administrative expenses grow 5% in the full year and 6% in the fourth quarter.
Both of those results included translations benefits from the strong dollar.
We would also note that the full year SG&amp;A expenses included a $38 million loan impairment charge with $10 million of that in the second quarter and $28 million in the fourth quarter related to a diamond mining company in Sierra Leone and also included a $9 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter for staffing and occupancy reduction.
Excluding these charges SG&amp;A growth in the quarter and year was due to store related spending and higher pension cost partially upset by lower variable cost.
In addition marketing spending grows in the full year to represent 7.4% of net sales from 6.7% in the prior year.
Although marketing spending declined in the fourth quarter as we expected due to disproportionally high spending in the fourth quarter of 2014 tied to the launch of the Tiffany T Collection.
We expect SG&amp;A expenses in 2016 to increase over 2015's SG&amp;A expense including charges due to increase in store related and marketing expenses with some benefit from lower pension clock.
Our projections for 2016 of a modest increase in the gross margin and for the SG&amp;A expense growth exceeding sales growth mostly due to higher store related costs will result in a decline of the operating margin for the year.
Interests and other expenses net declined in the full year due to our refinancing of long term debt to lower interest rates in October of 2014.
Interest and other expenses net were about flat in the fourth quarter.
We are projecting interest and other expenses net to be approximately unchanged in 2016.
The effective tax rate for the full year was slightly higher than last year and we are projecting a fractionally lower rate in 2016.
Adding it all up net earnings declined 5% in the fourth quarter and 9% in full years excluding charges in both years.
This followed a 13% increase in net earnings in 2014 excluding charges.
Putting together our assumptions for 2016 we arrive at a forecast going for net earnings ranging from unchanged to a mid-single digit decline compared to the $3.83 per diluted share excluding charges in 2015.
While we expect a gradually improving pace of sales over four quarters we also expect a similar progression in terms of earnings with earnings declining in the first quarter by 15% to 20% a 5% to 10% decline in the second quarter and then followed by a resumption of growth in the second half.
Most importantly we will continue throughout the year to focus on investing and improving the business despite a choppy and uncertain environment.
Looking at our balance sheet we finished the year in a very solid position.
Net inventories of $2.2 billion as of January 31 were 6% lower in the prior year-end.
Raw materials and working process declined 4% and finished goods inventories declined 7% reflecting more effective inventory management.
Even excluding the translation effect from the strong dollar net inventories would have declined 4% in the year compared with the 2% on worldwide net sales on a constant exchange basis.
We are projecting inventories in 2016 to be roughly unchanged.
Accounts receivables of $206 million were 6% higher than year ago largely reflecting in house credit tied to strong sales of statement jewelry but the receivables turnover remained a very high at 21x per year.
Our capital expenditures totaled $253 million in 2015 versus $247 million in the prior year and represented 6% of sales in both years.
Approximately half of our CapEx is store related for openings renovations and relocations.
With that store related mix shifting more toward renovations and relocations.
CapEx also currently includes substantial spending during a multi-year period to introduce new IT systems with a major focus on a global customer relationship management system and a new inventory management system.
We began 2015 projecting that we would generate free cash flow of at least $400 million and later in the year revised the forecast upwards to at least $500 million based on better inventory management.
We are pleased to now report that actual pre cash flow for 2015 amounted to $561 million and for 2016 we are projecting to generate free cash flow of at least $400 million.
In addition to continuing to reinvest some in the business we regularly evaluate opportunities to return cash to shareholders through dividend growth and share repurchases.
We were quite active in that area in 2015.
In the second quarter we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 5% which represented the fourteenth dividend increase in the past 13 years and as the year progressed we stepped up the pace of share repurchases to take advantage of a lower stock price.
For the full year we spent $220 million to repurchase 2.8 million shares at an average cost of $78 per share.
In January our board replaced an existing $300 million repurchase program that had only about $59 million of authorization maintaining and replaced it with a new authorization permitting repurchase up to $500 million of common stock.
At January 31 approximately $494 million remained available for repurchase under that new program that expires in January 2019.
Factoring everything we highlighted we finished the year in cash and short term investment of $887 million and $1 billion of short term and long term debt that represented 38% of stock holders equity.
Despite the lower earnings Tiffany's full year returns on assets as recorded was approximately 9% and the return of the stockholders equity was approximately 16% close to our long term objectives of at least a 10% ROA and at least a 15% ROE.
Looking at our longer term we believe that by continuing to invest in sales growth opportunities and managing cost effectively helped by more favorable external environment Tiffany will be well positioned to achieve and improve sustainable financial performance.
Given this our earnings objectives ultimately includes reaching high-single digits net earnings growth driven by mid-single digit worldwide net sales growth on a constant exchange rate basis by also continuing a very strong pre cash flow.
Wrapping up my remarks with a challenging year with overall disappointing financial performance however that should not over shadow the progress we are making to operate Tiffany's business more profitably over the longer term.
I will now turn the call over to Frederic and we will then take some questions.
Thank you Ralph and thank you Mark for those reviews.
While our financial results in 2015 were clearly disappointing I also believe that challenges can help us to learn and sharpen our focus on number of important initiatives within our control in order to derive better financial performance going forward.
And I believe that Tiffany has many fantastic growth opportunities world over.
On our call a year ago I talked about a clear road map of the future focused the historic experience product marketing and supply chain and margin improvements.
I believe we made progress in all of those areas in 2015 and we have continued opportunities to do more in 2016 and beyond.
Our overall objective is to derive separate total shareholder return through self-growth and improving margins and cash flow strengthening the brand and the customer experience and achieving operational excellence.
Our key strategy focuses on selling and what I mean by that is to better engage with our customers through a more consulted approach in our thoughts through enhanced visual merchandizing presentation through better customer data analytics using a new global CRM system and through optimizing our store base.
In regard to stores we were active in 2015 through openings renovations relocations and a few closings.
In the coming years we will continue to be very focused in optimizing our existing store base with a 2% net increase in worldwide square footage that includes opening 11 new stores through most regions.
As we continue to increase Tiffany's worldwide store base our ultimate objective is to ensure that we are best positioned in every market where we have a presence.
We were pleased with customer reactions to the new design that we have introduced in 2015.
Those designs included extraordinary statements pieces in the Art of Sea collection in our Blue Book that was introduced to very strong demand.
And at the other extreme we worked at improving our entry level silver jewelry assortment with some encouraging early results.
We were so very proud to make our official strategic reentry into the watch category and double our watch sales albeit on a very small base.
I also believe that our marketing through print and digital media and catalogues is more effectively communicating Tiffany as the global luxury brand with appeal to both the gift giver and the self-purchaser.
With an extraordinary product assortment and a 170-year age heritage we have strong messages to convey to customers.
I'm pleased to say that we attracted some highly skilled new members of management at various levels and in different areas of responsibility over the past year and now have experienced teams in place at the global and regional levels to execute our strategies.
And despite the operation sales and earnings in 2015 I was pleased that we increased our growth margin and managed expenses prudently and we all well maintain a strong financial position.
While we invested in our business in stores into outsourcing and in developing new IT system we were still able to return a meaningful amount of cash to shareholders.
I'll close by reiterating our objective to reinforce Tiffany's position amongst the world's most important luxury brand.
External pressures on our business will eventually evade and we believe that the long term global growth opportunities for the Tiffany brand are compelling.
We will remain committed to building on Tiffany's great heritage by delivering the finest products and experiences to a growing number of customers.
I hope that many of you will participate in our investor day meeting on April 12 whether in person or on the webcast and I look forward to seeing many of you throughout the year and updating you on our progress.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark and we can open up the call to answer some questions.
Thank you Frederic.
Taylor I think we're ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you good morning.
I want to follow up on the state of the domestic consumer spending in the U.S.
What do you think is driving the sales decline there? And then what is the pace of newness look like to try to reinvigorate that business from here? Talking specifically about the domestic consumer in the U.S.
because we all know the very negative impact of foreign tourist that we have to deal in '15 and frankly that we will mostly likely have to continue to deal with in '16.
The domestic consumers in the U.S.
behavior have been quite fickle and frankly we can put that partly on the economic uncertainty on the volatility of the financial market and on a particularly tensed electoral campaign in a year of presidential election.
The pace of introduction of novelty will continue to remain high and frankly we will continue and we will faster the introduction of newness at or below $500 price point.
What we think and what we experience by the end of the year in the U.S.
through the introduction of new SKUs namely behind Infinity as a collection and Return to Tiffany.
We've really enjoyed some significant success behind those introductions.
So what we have in our plans for the year is to faster the pace of introduction especially below $500 price point on several collections.
Thank you.
Okay next question.
And we'll take our next question from Anne-Charlotte Windal with Bernstein.
Good morning.
So looking at your Q1 EPS guidance it seems to imply a little bit of deterioration in supply trend compared to Q4 so could you please elaborate for us on the trends and drivers you are currently seeing across regions from a topline standpoint.
I think you are alluded to a little bit of weakness in China going into Q1.
Thank you.
Anne-Charlotte it's Ralph.
Good morning.
What I'll do is maybe talk a little bit about the earnings that I spoke about just previously on the remarks and then maybe Frederic will turn a little bit more to a view of the regions in your question as related to what we were seeing at the end of the fourth quarter.
Clearly we're in a very choppy volatile environment.
We saw that coming out of the fourth quarter.
So when we look at the progression of our sales and particularly in the first quarter and what the comparisons also look like.
We see the first half of the year more challenging than the second half and then with that as you know on this business you need solid growth to get expense leverage and frankly we're going to be not seeing that.
It's going to build through the year so it's difficult to get expense leverage and that puts some pressure on the EPS particularly in the first half of the year and most acutely in the first quarter.
Last year I mean 2015 the first part of the year we've enjoyed a very nice growth in Europe thanks to influx of tourists and we believe that because of what's going on in Europe has a combination of break sit in the U.K.
migrants in continental Europe and in the U.K.
and risk of terrorism or perception of risk of terrorism we believe that the tourist business in Europe that is a main driver of sales for this region will be very significantly down.
You also remember that Q1 of last year we're above by comparison to Q1 of '14.
A very good performance in Japan.
Despite the fact that we are continuing to grow and we plan to continue to grow in Japan frankly.
We want to enjoy such higher growth and the one that we have been able to enjoy during the first part of the year of '15.
And lastly just on your comment on China frankly we are quite pleased with mainland China and all performance in China.
We have had very solid performances in '15 in China and we have no reason to think that our performance won't be good in mainland China in '16.
Truth is that greater China because of Hong Kong continues to be a nightmare.
There is no other word and I believe this is the same for all of us all the luxury player.
We don't know when we will bottom up and we don't believe that the situation will significantly improve in Hong Kong during '16.
So this is why we are not too bullish and Hong Kong is a significant market despite the decrease in '15 and this is why despite of overall good performance or we plan for good performance in '16 overall in Asia but it will be negatively impacted by a low performance in Hong Kong.
Exactly.
Okay.
Next question? We will take our next question from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Thanks for all the information and thanks for taking question.
I wanted to follow up on the topic of newness and innovation and fashion trying to understand it sounds like those areas outperformed the rest of the categories and portfolio.
I'm trying to understand why it didn't maybe help the overall business more.
Can you talk a little bit more about the opportunity to accelerate the process of bringing new products and collections and innovation to the stores and to the consumer? It sounds like the under $500 price point is going to be a focus but is there opportunity to do more at higher price points as well? Are there supply chain constraints that make it more difficult? Just trying to understand the overall picture there around newness new collections new products.
Thank you.
Okay.
Omar in a nut shell we will continue and we will accelerate the newness on some of our core collections.
Remember as stated by Mark that we are very successful with Tiffany T but it's only the beginning so we are going to continue to focus on establishing Tiffany T as an icon and we are to continue to leverage on newness and so you will see the emphasis on newness on T to engage even more with the consumer.
You will also see newness on the very important collection that is particularly relevant on silver and under $500 around return to Tiffany that is going to be supported by new market access.
And frankly we know that this collection is particularly relevant it's not the only one but to millennial.
You will also see some more refresh on 1837 and some other collections but at the same time not only we see that it is clearly a collection cutting on retail between $750 and $5000 but you will see newness on some more classic fine jewelry we have introduced big refreshed collection around Victoria in bold in Q4 of 2015.
We are going to continue to push behind those collections and to introduce some more newness behind those collections.
You are going to see us to continue to activate and to refresh and to introduce new things on key so we are going to be particularly active in 2016 on the front of the newness frankly at every price point not only under $500.
And Omar its Ralph on the back end of your question on the supply chain this one really highlights it.
This was where our unique vertically integrated manufacturing and diamond sourcing capabilities your positions very well here and so there's no issue in the supply chain and in fact we think it's a strong asset that we have to execute against the areas that Frederic just mentioned.
Thank for all the information.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Brian Nagel from Oppenheimer.
Hi good morning thanks for all of that and my thanks for taking questions on the call.
So the question I have is a strange one but a lot of talk for a while down to today's call about the impact the stronger U.S.
dollar has upon domestic business you have stores elsewhere so when currency shifts you see sales throughout your system but the question I have is Is there a lever or levers that Tiffany can pull in attempt to mitigate the impact of the stronger dollar in the U.S? Yes I will start maybe from the supply chain how we think in terms of the capital and that side and then Frederic can pick up on the more strategic end of it.
First as we look at it Brian as we have talked about this before in different conferences as such our cost base and our footprint is largely still in an evolving way going from a U.S.
centric in when most of our revenue not long ago was mostly coming from the U.S and maybe to a lesser extent Japan to a real global footprint.
And building out our global capabilities in terms of how we source from a procurement standpoint how and where we manufacture are all areas that we are taking a hard look at and have some action plans to extending our capabilities there so there is on the -- I will go on the infrastructure side we are taking steps that over the next few years is going to make us better positioned to manage a strong dollar environment or frankly a more volatile currency environment over time in any direction that the dollar moves.
So taking a lot of steps in that direction and then on capital allocation these volatile conditions up from a strategic standpoint on capital allocations doesn't deter us from investing in key locations and key markets that we think strategically important to be at and you saw some of that in our investments in stores this year particularly in Asia Europe and I think you will continue to see us invest smartly in locations so just will even better position our global footprint stores.
And in the question of volatility of currencies is the critical one because it is not so much the value of the dollar that is the concern.
The concern is the unpredictability and the reality for consumers is that perception is reality so when you have a currency moving in one direction or the other direction consumers and tourist really tend to believe that everything is on deal in a given country or that everything is super expensive in another country.
And brands as powerful as we can be or as powerful as some other brands can be there is not a lot of things we can do to counter this perception frankly when we look internally at our price differentials in the world we are not any cheaper in Europe than we are in the U.S.
so for Chinese consumers buying Tiffany in Europe is not really a better deal than buying Tiffany in the U.S.
But they believe that everything in Europe is cheaper and there is nothing that I can do and we are not going to enter in terms of promotional we are not going to reinforce promotional activities and started to discount things we will never do that.
We have a lot of concerted effort to manage and to track and to risk but the key for us is really always and always about the brand equity brand management reinforcing the relevance of the brand with all of our customers throughout a great job in their local market and second reinforcing the customer experience both online and offline in retail stores when they are paying us a visit.
It's all very helpful thank you and if I could just slip one short follow up in there.
Would the market rebound recently? Have you seen a positive impact in your I recognize this is a short term question? Yes it is very short term so we will pass on it.
Okay thanks anyway.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Antoine Belge from HSBC.
Yes hi this Antoine Belge at HSBC.
I have got three questions.
You discussed the product pipeline but could you also discuss the marketing initiatives especially others in terms of new traditional marketing but also in terms of digital do you think you could do a few things better? Second question is on the rhythm on the face of store openings it's indicated to be only around 2% but it also looks like it is going to be structural because it is also becoming your long-term guidance.
So could you maybe elaborate a little bit on that? And finally can you -- regarding the gross margin with seeing favorable raw material prices at the end of last year usually there is a certain time lag like 12 or 18 months could you also tell us when you expect those tailwinds to feature in the gross margin? Thank you.
Yes Antoine hi it's Ralph good morning.
I'll pick the gross margin first since you ended on that one.
First overall we are pleased with our gross margin performance as we said in our remarks we grew at a 100 basis points in 2015 and I guided to making some improvement in 2016.
In 2016 we are seeing the benefit from lower product cost benefitting gross margin in the metals area.
On the diamond side we are we have said in the past we have seen some recent declines in rough diamond prices.
We do have some of those lower cost diamond inventory in our process but it's going to take really into 2017 for that to work into the P&amp;L.
So 2016 lower product cost metal driven and some of our manufacturing initiatives and then 2017 we'd be beginning to get the benefit from diamond pricing.
On the store front I guess that we've always been very clear in terms of messaging about the fact that we are very much about locations locations and locations.
So while working a lot that's always improving the quality of our location and you know that the line is changing in the world.
So some of our stores were maybe perfectly located ten or 15 years ago and they are not anymore so this is why you can see us relocating or even some places.
But the future our future is not about opening a very high number of stores per year.
We are still in the very unique position of being able to continue to grow geographically and to reinforce our position but it's more critical for us to reinforce the customer experience through new design better fitting better lighting and by design I'm talking about the store design the store concept and always working on that opening a very high number of stores.
So we are very selective and very picky in making the case for this kind of long term 2% growth in term of square footage.
In term of marketing because the operation was a branch of different question in term of marketing and communications specifically two things; you've seen the beginning of the year and this is what we are doing right now that we've introduced 360 marketing approach behind our Bridal and FDR.
This is the year of the celebration of the 130 anniversary of the introduction of Six-Prong setting the Tiffany Setting and frankly we are using that as an alibi to highlight our craftsmanship heritage and authority that we are on a category that is quite pivotal to the jewelry segment.
And lastly on digital we are spending we have been spending and we are trying to be state of the art on digital.
Are we? No.
Will we ever be? No because always someone will do better than the ones after but not in luxury actually.
I will argue that we are probably more leading the pack the group in luxury than following all the luxury players.
Do we have a lot of things to improve? Absolutely.
Will you see some new things in digital? Frankly you will see from us new things from digital every day because this is of pay and this is very demanding this is high cost of doing business because you need to have your own team you need to work with a lot of different partners and nevertheless you need to try the right balance between allowing social media and the word of mouth to do a part of the job for you but also to control the key messaging.
Thank you very much.
Next question? And we'll take our next question from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities Hi good morning.
This is Kevin leaning on for Bob.
I was just wondering if you could discuss some of the efforts and progress you've made on improving the store experience whether it's the quality of relationship of sales associates with the customers the presentation of product and then maybe what you've seen from the renovations you've done in Chicago and then I think you talked about San Francisco and Beverly Hills as other locations that you were looking at to do some of the renovations.
It's Ralph.
I'll start in just maybe responding to the renovation question and what we've seen-- not getting into any specific stores because how we think about renovations is first we have a disciplined process to approaching this to our priorities to renovate to upgrade the experience for the customer in the stores and we prioritize around key locations.
So stores like Chicago is an example are very evident to that and it's important.
Frankly our results and we've said in the past the results in terms of incremental revenue growth from after renovation has been mixed.
It really depends on the store.
It depends on what we're bringing in around it and nonetheless it's very important that we do that for making sure that we're providing a great customer experience and in some ways you could think of it as a cost of doing business and others.
It is an investment in our presentation to customers.
The story trend by itself is only a part of a larger ambition that is again about better engaging the customers to frankly improve our fair over all.
And it's made of different elements.
It's related to leveraging better on our client based and frankly we have been ramping up our clienteling programs and CRM activation a little bit everywhere in the world but frankly we are focusing a lot on the U.S.
It's also about raising the level of set mindset of thought through better program of animation and employee engagement around what I call a service signature that is beyond excellence and we are deploying very aggressively and generally training and coaching and we have big programs.
And they are ongoing and fully there is not a D-Day about that there is not the day where things are done but really we are investing significant time and money behind that.
And it's also as we already pointed out about the consent optimization of store design to provide a better experience in term of basic things comfort lighting sitting it's depending of the categories or range of products that we are talking about.
We need sitting or we don't need sittings and it's also about mobility better use of tablets and things like that.
So we just recently opened a new store in Chengdu in China in Taikoo Li where we've tried to implement the latest concept that we have right now and we are tracking and learning day by day.
But we are extremely pleased by the results.
So some more to come.
Thanks very much.
And we'll take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning everyone and thank you very much for doing this question and answer session.
As you think about the refresh of Tiffany with experience Omni channel product innovations store selling.
How far along are you and as you do move along how do you see the long term ability for operating margins? Could they return to a 20% plus type of level or what do you see on the horizon? Thank you.
Hi Dana it's Ralph.
On the operating margin question we've said in the past and we continue to be confident that we could grow our operating margin about 50 basis points a year over time.
We don't have a clear view of where the feeling is on that but we think we have plenty of room to grow our operating margin and it's driven by a combination of mid-single digit sales growth with a focus frankly on comp store sales which as you know would help margin improving our manufacturing and distribution for print for a more global presence and a real sharp attack on cost on the SG&amp;A area and driving that.
So I think a combination of those areas while continuing to invest in marketing.
It's an equation that we're comfortable saying that we could overtime grow 50 basis points.
But we need to get as you know now in the near term we need to get the sales growth back to mid-single digit levels.
And if I may and we can be very clear about that.
We don't believe that the structure of business should be around 20% growth margin we have much higher operating margin sorry.
We have much higher ambition.
How long will that take is really the question but it's really your ambition is not to come back and to say a 20% but to achieve much higher numbers and on the first part of your question there is no final line there is nothing I believe that you will never hear us at least not me saying oh this is done.
It's an endless journey because the day you believe you have done everything you wanted to do there are more things to do because consumers are more exigent rightly so they have different experience they want to enjoy themselves even more and that said and we have to take on the challenge of delivering.
Thank you And we will take our next question from Randal Konik from Jefferies.
Great thanks a lot.
I wanted to go back to the product focus and the collections etcetera.
When you think about the innovation strategy just wanted to be clear you have about 15 collections on the website.
How should we be thinking about the number of collections for the next few years and then as you add newness should we be thinking about the gross add for the skew count of the portfolio or are you looking to kind of pair down some of the existing skews in the portfolio of products as you ramp up innovation and from Francesca's standpoint she did a great job with the Tiffany T collection you know from her vantage point is it something she believes that the company needs to have more named collections or more standout pieces within the existing collections of the portfolio? I am just trying to get some perspective there and then lastly as related to your price strata you talked a lot about your really innovating price points below 500 can we get some perspective on what kind of attrition is of price points below 500 today and what's the goal of that penetration over the medium term? Thanks.
So to start on the number of collections and frankly just for reference the role of a design director is to design on bricks so the design director by definition doesn't have any opinion about the number of collections because any design director will live to develop one end or two ends of a different collections and we are clearly not of this school of thought.
Now the skews it is clear that when we are introducing new skews we are also using that as an opportunity to review the skew base and we are not about proliferation of skew.
So if anything within the past few years we have reduced the number of skews and we need to do a better job and this is particularly on the net on all sites because we are presenting too many skews that some of them you won't find them in stores.
And it is a little bit the tail of the collections so it's probably and we are not considering that right now.
And it's not making a good service and it's not helping us in this direction so no skew proliferation if anything let's keep skew and then more skews.
About the number of collections frankly we have got six or seven key collections.
Will we introduce new collection in the future? Yes absolutely we will and the life of some of the collections that are maybe smaller and some we will focus less in the future on some of them but remember that those collections lot of them have the capabilities and the ability to cover different price points.
Not necessarily all of them below $500 price points but let's use T today or T tomorrow yes we have got one or two skews actually at $500 price point but we all know that the core offering of T is more on $1500 than anything else but this is a collection that can go much higher.
And today it's going as high as $5 000 but there is no reason not to consider in the future this collection to have more accent diamonds and some other things so you know those collections can play a role at very different price points.
So it will be a mix of reworking refreshing collections and innovating in existing collections but it will also be completed by a new T or something totally different but in the coming few years.
And then just on the price point of $500 below what's the penetration where do you want the penetration to be? Thank you.
Yes Randy we don't have a specific goal on that but rest assured we have growth opportunities across the whole portfolio and in the under 500 price points it's an important part of our business but it's not the core of everything we have going on here as Frederic said we have a lot of lot of strong initiatives across all price points.
And we are talking about those initiatives because as you know they are a part fewer event some U.S.
customers they are much less outside the U.S.
So as we said Randy we have not been looking to turbocharge those price points over jewelry but we certainly want to stabilize that category at some point and new products have indicated that we are moving in that direction.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Dorothy Lakner from Topika Capital Markets Thanks and good morning everyone.
I wondered if Ralph you talked about initiatives in manufacturing and making sure that Tiffany has a true global footprint there so I just wondered if you could provide a little bit more color on what you are working on how you are planning to do that? Thank you.
Thanks Dorothy for the question.
The way we are thinking about is a couple of ways.
First not that long ago we got into manufacturing on a vertically integrated basis and so we have been building the capability and in time and in over time we have been doing this we have been finding more and more ways to be more efficient in the operations we have so one element of this is within the manufacturing footprint we have to continue to invest in the capabilities to improve our efficiencies.
Second and I talk about this around systems we have systems today that support our manufacturing and distribution network to our stores that was in place 20 years ago or more.
When we were basically a small U.S.
company and as we upgrade some of those systems capabilities it will enable us to be much more nimble in terms of how we manage our inventory much more efficient of in the movement of our products and the accuracy of how we deploy and replenish our stores.
So those kind of areas all bring us significant amount of cost inventory and service opportunity for us.
Those are a couple of examples and then maybe the last one I would add is just the area of procurement.
And this runs both in SG&amp;A and also in direct cost in particular that sit inside our gross margin.
This year we really created a global procurement function and it's because we weren't really leveraging our global scale and footprint.
And we put that in place and have got a very good start to it this year.
We are going to see benefits in 2016 and it's going to build over time and that's the area and capabilities that we think there is a lot of runway at and that will help us manage costs as well.
Great thank you.
And we will take our next question from Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking all the questions.
Just wanted to ask you a little bit about the long term cash flow.
I know you improved cash flow despite the sales deleverage.
I know in your other markets I know it's largely inventory but it looks like on the balance sheet other assets as well.
Can you comment on the long term efficiency and ability to improve those cash flow buckets over many years? Paul its Ralph.
A couple of ways I want to address your question.
I think your first an overall working capital our focus has in this past year as you can see from our results has been on inventory management and there I just want to frame a little bit that the way we think about it and I would also say our inventory management process in the results that we have is really been an internal team effort here.
It's a cross functional group our merchandising marketing sales and finance team is really working hard at this and you could see the benefits.
But as we think about it we're thinking about inventory management is a way to enable sales and improve cash flow both not one of the other but both.
And so it's about getting more efficient on the raw and packaging material front and diamond side linked to having better deployment and accuracy on the product placement in our stores and improving turns over there.
So that's one clear aspect of it.
We have a lot of runway for improvement there but it cuts and widespread at this way because it cuts into two directions.
One there is an effort to this process to remove some of the excess that we have that is inefficient and not working for us.
But as we better deploy our inventory we're also going to improve the turnover and that's the other side of it so we can improve our turns as we get better in terms of how and where we replenish.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
We have a lot of runway.
That's why I'm confident that overtime we can manage our inventory growth grow our sales growth.
As it relates to the other parts of the balance sheet frankly I think we're in good shape on capital.
We're getting very sharp on our discipline around the cost side of capital.
We've always been disciplined on the location and strategy side but getting sharper principally through procurement on capital.
And then areas of payables and accounts receivables and what I would call cash conversion cycle.
Frankly we haven't put a lot of focus on that.
I think we've been operating it pretty well and that maybe an area in the future that we take a look at but I don't think the opportunity there is as big as the areas I just spoke about.
A really quick follow-up.
Is it more on the diamond side or is it across collections for the opportunities on the inventory? It's across the whole supply chain from rough diamond sourcing to finished product.
Okay.
Thank you very much and best of luck.
Thank you.
Operator maybe one more question.
And we have time for one more question and we will take our last question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about the guidance for the second half of 2016.
Is the return to gross in earnings a function of what are certainly easier comparisons or is there something else that you expect to drive that acceleration in the back half of the year? And then Ralph I know you've been looking at the efficiency of operations and aggregate.
You've talked about some of these things on this call today.
But also looking in particular the efficiency of the expenses with organization and how you can deliver the greatest impact for the expenses that you're incurring.
Can you give us just some sort of big picture takeaway from the last year as you've been looking at that and where are the big buckets if there are any or even several small buckets of potential expense efficiencies that you could realize in the next one to three years.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Kimberly.
I'll address first the question you had on the phasing of our guidance throughout the year.
In the back half of the year the improvement in the back half of the year is really driven by two things.
One we've sited we do have easier comparisons in the back half of the year but I think more importantly we are taking actions and we have been and we are taking actions to improve our self-growth performance and we're expecting some improvement on our self-growth trend and that's the principal driver of the improved various performance that we're projecting in the back half of the year.
A combination of our marketing and new product initiatives either really build over the course of the year and that's why we believe that we'll improve the earnings performance in the back half.
Okay.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session and I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark Aaron for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
So in closing we hope you find today's conference call informative.
We certainly also hope that you've enjoyed the addition of an annual Q&amp;A period on our year-end call.
A replay of today's call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 6324380.
Finally please note on your calendars that we expect to report first quarter results on May 25.
Thanks for listening.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.