Good morning.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the second quarter earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Doug Miller you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much Matthew.
I'd like to welcome everybody to our second quarter earnings and production conference call and before I get started we have to be legal.
So Doug would you read our nondisclosure disclosure? Sure Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
Statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 22 and 23 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thanks.
You sound like a lawyer.
Well again welcome everybody.
We've got 9 people in here prepared to stick with you and go over all Q&amp;A that we might have and hopefully answer any and all questions.
It's been a tough first 7 months.
Good news and bad news I mean the good news is our people with the slowdown have focused on cost and production.
And our production is slightly better than we had forecast.
That's a product of putting a lot of time and in detail and maybe doing a few changes.
We'll get into that.
But we're very happy with our production and all the initiatives that we've set out on.
I mean it's been tough because to increase our earnings and our cash flow we've had to cut people.
And in 35 years it's really the first time I've ever done that.
And it's really the toughest thing that we've had to do here in the first 6 months.
But I'd say that I have over 300 people between contractors and employees since the first of the year we continue to look at it.
It's just something you have to do and it's not fun.
But we have to look at it because we are running a company for the shareholders.
We have reduced capital at least 3 times we continue to look at it.
Capital expenditures will be driven by gas prices mainly and so we continue to look at that and Hal's group everyday we're working on it.
I think the main initiative that we've been doing and everybody in the company has been working on is saving cost both at the operating level and at the corporate level.
And you can see that stuff starting to filter in to our income statement.
And I would expect to see more of that because some of that has just been done recently more of that in future quarters.
And that's a product of being at 30-something rigs running a year ago with forecast gas going up.
And now we've run into gas going down.
And now we have what 8 or 9 rigs running and we just don't need all those people.
We've been releasing rigs.
Now those rigs once they leave the Haynesville they're heading out to West Texas or down to the Eagle Ford.
They're probably not coming back for a while.
And so we'll get into that here lately -- I mean later.
We are evaluating out on our West Texas some Wolfcamp and some Cline Hal will get into that.
We've had some recent early indications that we do have Wolfcamp and we do have Cline Shales under the Sugg Ranch and so we're working on that.
We have finalized 2 processing agreements in the Cotton Valley where we're stripping liquids.
One of that is -- they're due to be in by the end of the year.
A&amp;D I think everybody wants to know what we're doing.
I'm kind of in the penalty box for predicting dates which I'm not going to do anymore.
Steve spanked me.
We are reviewing the sidecar with our conventional assets in it.
We have it out with 6 people.
We have had some offers that we're evaluating right now.
And instead of giving you a date certain we hope that we'll have it done by the end of the year.
Pipeline.
We have been working on that and we have had some offers there.
We're evaluating that also.
We've been working with BG.
We actually took it off the market for a little while while we were evaluating another transaction.
We are looking at it.
And again the good news on that is the cash flow and the EBITDA continue to increase as we cut costs over there also.
Hal has gotten very involved in that and so actually the numbers are starting to look a lot better but we are seriously looking at making a partial or full sale of that.
And again I'm not going to give you the Fourth of July I'm going to give you by the end of the year on that one.
The rest of the activity we're working on and have bid on several deals.
We do have many joint venture partners that we have teamed up with and are teaming up with.
The activity is as high as I've ever seen it.
It wouldn't surprise me if you didn't see $20 billion to $30 billion of transactions in the second half of the year.
Some of which we're looking at and would love to bid on.
Again most of those would be done in conjunction with joint venture partners.
We're looking at the Eagle Ford.
We're looking at West Texas but more importantly we are looking inside the Haynesville where we have our best people working and have as much data and facts as anybody.
We are also looking up in the Marcellus and our deals in all cases.
So we want to be -- if gas ever goes up again we sure would like to have more of it when it goes up.
I do have a large shareholder that's been spanking me here lately and he gave you some facts.
He said you're a natural gas company I think we're 95% natural gas.
Since the beginning of the year natural gas is up 8% and our stock is down 33%.
Since the low on April 18 gas is up 65% and our stocks are up 22%.
So we have to figure out what we're doing wrong.
And I think a lot of people are spreading rumors about the financial jam we're in we're not.
We have $500 million of liquidity.
We have assets that we're looking at doing something with either trading or selling and we are participating in all the deals that are for sale.
And with a lot of confidence I might add.
And we will -- if gas goes down we will continue to reduce rig count.
I mean we're down to 5 in the Haynesville.
I think the last time we said we were going to 7.
And we're prepared to go to 0 if we need to like with many of the other operators.
I think my feeling on gas is when we look at going private we were thinking gas was going to be cheap for 2 to 3 years cheap meaning in the 3 to 3.50 range where there would be some areas where you would drill.
When gas caved in to actually below $2 on 4/18 it really set a panic through the gas industry.
And you saw many operators absolutely quit drilling and many of them have made the decision to leave the dry gas areas and head for oil.
And so that rig count which was 1 600 at the end of '08 is down to below 500.
And in the Haynesville for example we're below 25 after peaking at 186.
So you're starting to see it slowly but you're starting to see production down.
You're starting to see storage.
The margin each week it gets lower and lower.
20 to 40 Bcf a week is digging into our storage glut.
So it looks like instead of a 3-year deal we're looking at maybe the end of this year we're going to be at storage levels and we're going go into peak heating and peak production needs with production going down.
So I just want to get a few of these things under our belt because I think if we do have any kind of a winter we're going to have peak demand with production actually going down.
So I kind of expect to see if there is going to be a spike it would be January February.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve and we'll get into the financials.
All right.
If you would please turn to Page 5 of the presentation just the corporate highlights.
As you can see we're displaying the first quarter of this year and this quarter and the second quarter of last year.
Again our production level was 2.4 percentage up.
If you compare it to the first quarter it was 9% up.
If you compare it with the second quarter last year it's essentially the same as the fourth quarter of last year so -- and ahead of guidance.
So I think we had a great quarter.
The average price obviously is still a problem.
And of course that impacts revenues.
But we are operating under our average price in the same quarter of $2.36 which is not too spiffy.
Direct operating costs are $0.38 an Mcf down by 17% from the second quarter of last year.
I'll get into a little more of that in a second.
G&amp;A is another area where we have concentrated.
We're at $0.37 an Mcf in this quarter versus $0.50 in the last quarter a 26% decrease.
We did have a ceiling test write-down as expected and have -- as we reported that we probably would in this quarter.
We wrote down 429 million and that was on an average price of $3.15 for the trailing 12 months.
That average price at this point is still going south.
So we would expect some kind of a write off over the next -- at least in the third quarter.
Overall it was a good quarter.
We were pleased with our progress in all areas in terms of our cost reductions.
And I think that we're on the right track.
Page 6 shows the rig counts that Doug spoke to.
Actually in the first quarter comments I think I said that we could very well go to 5 rigs in the Haynesville if gas didn't strengthen.
Well it didn't strengthen and we did go to 5 rigs right now.
It was at 7 at the end of the second quarter.
Marcellus we're at 1 rig right now; and Permian we've increased it by 1 to up to 2 rigs but we'll be in the 1 to 2-rig category over the rest of the year.
That's just strictly economics.
You -- there's no use drilling at $2.36.
The Haynesville drilling and completion cost is a really bright picture and Hal will get into that.
But right now we're drilling wells less than the 8.3 target that we have.
And I think that by the end of the year we will be at 8.
And also believe that we will be -- that we have a pretty clear or at least a reasonably clear line of sight to -- below that and I may be down to 7.5.
So we'll see.
That's a tough step but we're working on it.
In the Marcellus the costs of drilling have begun to come down as we complete our water infrastructure buildout which has a dramatic effect on per-well cost so we're optimistic there.
As far as the costs you can see them down at the bottom in the little table showing the actual dollars of various cost categories against the quarterly average from 11 in the Q4 et cetera.
Bottom line we're down 21% Q4 to Q2 of '12.
And we're down 10% from the first quarter.
Good stuff.
Page 7 has the little chart that shows our production and where we think it's going to go versus our debt levels.
Our debt is down $40 million from the end of the year.
It's down $70 million from the end of the first quarter.
We expect it to be roughly flat at the end of the year assuming we don't make sales.
But with the sales obviously we will be at a very level on debt.
We'll talk about production in terms of the guidance that Paul will handle.
But obviously it's going to start coming off some just because they don't have as many rigs running.
So that's the -- that's kind of a quick summary on the financial end.
I'll turn it over to Paul and let him get into some liquidity and into our guidance.
Thanks Steve.
On Slide 9 I'll pickup with the liquidity and derivatives discussion.
As you can see at the end of the quarter we ended with $113 million of cash and $1.1 billion drawn under our line of credit $750 million of notes outstanding for total debt of $1.86 billion.
Net debt was $1.7 billion and we have a $1.4 billion borrowing base which leaves us with $400 million of total liquidity including the cash.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter as calculated under our credit facility was 3.4x.
Looking at our derivative position for the rest of this year we have added some hedges beyond 2012.
For 2012 we're hedged at $5.27 on $222 million a day.
We've also got 1 500 barrels of oil hedged at $98.
You can see we're about 50% hedged on our gas and about 75% hedged on our oil.
Looking in 2013 we've added some calls and some swaps.
We're currently swapped at 70 million a day for 2013 at $4.65 and we sold calls at $4.29 on $55 million a day.
Looking at our oil position for 2013 we've got 1 000 barrels a day hedged at right at $100 and we've actually sold some calls during the quarter on 2014 2015 oil for 1 000 barrels a day at $100.
We will continue to evaluate our hedge position as prices have strengthened here.
We will be looking at potentially wearing on some more.
We can get well over $4 for well over being $0.05 over for a 3-year straight swap looking at '13 '14 '15 which materially changes the numbers from the $2 that we're realizing today.
Looking at Slide 10 to go over our second quarter guidance that we previously put out versus the actuals.
As Steve mentioned and Doug both mentioned our production in Q2 came in above the high-end of guidance primarily as a result of a general outperformance in our Haynesville wells where we are seeing a much shallower decline than we initially anticipated.
Our LOE and G&amp;A as mentioned before came in well below guidance as the financial impact of our major cost reduction initiatives were realized ahead of schedule.
The combination of those items and a slightly better average realized price than anticipated resulted in $112 million of EBITDA which was $11.6 million higher than it previously guided.
Also to highlight is as we mentioned before the impact of TGGT's cost reduction initiatives.
TGGT's adjusted equity income and adjusted EBITDA came in well above guidance and that was a result of the higher throughput that we've put through the system.
As we -- as our volumes are greater than expected we show you our net volumes but TGGT moves the gross volumes associated with those.
And TGGT was successful in their cost reduction initiatives as well.
You can see that their -- our share of their EBITDA came in at 21.1 million well above the high end of guidance.
As for the guidance for the remainder of the year we have raised our production forecast lowered LOE and G&amp;A as well as the corresponding effects to our share of TGGT's EBITDA.
And again to remind everyone when we talk about our corporate EBITDA that does not include any of the effects of TGGT's EBITDA as it is carried as an equity investment.
Production guidance was raised in Q3 and Q4 by $20 million and $10 million a day and our full year volumes are now expected to be 512 million to 522 million a day as compared to prior guidance of 497 million to 512 million a day.
We lowered LOE by 1 million per quarter reflecting the cost reduction initiatives implemented this year.
G&amp;A was also lower by 2 million per quarter also reflecting the cost reduction initiatives implemented.
Using $3 gas for Q3 and $3.25 NYMEX prices for Q4 and $90 oil for the remainder of this year compared to prior guidance of $3 and $3.50 and $105 for oil and incorporating all the changes outlined to our guidance our full year EBITDA guidance is now $457 million as compared to prior guidance of $441 million.
We expect to end the year 3.8x levered as calculated under our credit facility.
And finally looking at our equity income we've raised the equity income impact from our investments by $5.5 million for Q3 and $3 million for Q4.
The increase is attributable to higher throughput than originally expected and lower operating expenses at TGGT.
TGGT's EBITDA net of our 50% interest was raised by $2.5 million for Q3 and $2 million for Q4.
We're now guiding to a full year EBITDA of $150 million for 2012 up from $130 million from our prior guidance.
And that again is to 100%.
And with that I'll hand it over to Hal to talk about the operating side of the business.
Thank you Paul.
Slide 13 has an overview of the company's assets.
I'll point out that based on the June 22 NYMEX strip we have proved reserves in the corporation of 1.6 Tcfe.
Our net acreage is nearly 500 000.
Key focus as Steve Doug and Paul have all emphasized has been on managing our base production and really having a particular focus on all of our costs LOE capital and G&amp;A.
I'll particularly note that our headcount has gone down on the employee front from about 1 100 at year end '11 to approximately 960 today.
Our contractor headcount is down even more dramatically.
And as Doug said when you look at the contractors and our employees together we're down about 300 people from year end to the end of the quarter -- or to today.
Big focus in our operating areas of Haynesville/Bossier is on manufacturing in DeSoto Parish with 5 rigs.
Our volumes stayed very strong.
In the Marcellus our focus is on development in Northeast Pennsylvania and appraisal in Central Pennsylvania which has been particularly encouraging.
In the Marcellus our production is up to 146 million a day on a gross basis from 116 million in the first quarter.
Permian we're continuing our Sugg Ranch Canyon sand development and we're testing other opportunities there.
And in TGGT our volumes have held pretty steady but the big focus there is the wrap up of our significant capital program.
I'll give you details on all of these areas in a minute.
On Slide 14 you can see that our capital budget is $470 million which is significantly less than our '11 capital spend and less than what we've actually entered the year thinking we were going to spend.
84% of our capital budget remains dedicated to development and that 84% entails our drilling and completion in our field operations areas of focus.
Field operations includes activities such as artificial lift and managing our existing assets.
I will say that of our rig count as Steve said in the Permian we have 2 today.
One of those rigs is focused on the Canyon sands and its development the second rig we've been using to test other opportunities.
And so we'll bounce a little bit between 1 and 2 rig count through the rest of this year as we have to this point.
Appalachia we're probably going to stay with 1 rig for the remainder of this year and we'll consider ramping that up next year depending on what prices do.
In the East Texas and North Louisiana as we've noted we have 5 rigs.
There's actually a couple of those that go off contract in September.
We're not saying we're going to release those at this point in time but we're going to evaluate what our opportunities are and what gas prices do and make a decision on those 2 rigs here in the next few weeks.
Slide 15 I want to spend a little bit of time on.
On the capital the focus on the drilling and completion cost Steve noted the detail on how we were targeting 8 million by Q4 and even lower dollars in 2013.
But it's really been driven by some strong strong efforts on our guys' parts.
In both the Haynesville and in the Marcellus we've negotiated with our frac service providers and they've been very responsive to the current environment.
And we've had reductions in our frac service cost in both areas but we're negotiating reductions on all of our services on our rig operations.
And like I said our contractors has been very responsive.
And our operating expense we did shut down wells in the first quarter.
We've kept them shutdown particularly in Cotton Valley.
And we have initiatives underway to reduce our OpEx 15% to 20%.
We've met those targets.
Now work-over program we actually had as many as 11 work-over rigs operating for us last year.
We're down to 3 today.
We did a lot of work that's allowed us to get to that point.
The chemical program while we've cut the cost we've also improved it.
It's allowing us not have to do with much intervention as we had to before hence some of the work-over rigs cut back.
A big big focus that I want to emphasize is always on our company and contract labor.
Now we have used technology we've developed the control room here in Dallas that allows us to every hour look at all of the wells across our Haynesville portfolio.
And in turn we're going to do surveillance -- we've got enhance surveillance we're doing work on those wells on a more selective basis.
And in turn it's allowed us to keep our base volumes at a higher level than we had originally anticipated.
And I will also note that our safety and compliance efforts haven't been compromised at all.
We've had an excellent safety record across our portfolio and actually within EXCO our TRIR or total recordable incident rate is at 0.6 which is literally 50% of what our industry average is.
East Texas/North Louisiana is depicted on Slide 16.
We've got over 60 000 net acres with Haynesville Shale Haynesville and Bossier Shale potential more than 90% of that acreage is held by production.
But we have 346 operated wells and with our OBO wells we've participated in more than 525 wells in the Haynesville/Bossier.
One point that I really want to emphasize is that as a reduction in activities occur and as our surveillance has taken hold we've actually brought down our net volume on average that we shut in or curtailed during the first quarter 72 million a day down to 22 million a day strong efforts on our people's parts.
The restricted rate program where we typically go up to about an 18/64ths choke as opposed to when we're first drilling and completing in the Haynesville we're going up to 28 to 30 to even 32/64ths chokes.
We're managing our pressures and our drawdown and we think that over time that's going to enhance our EUR and in fact it's actually helping maintain the base as we held the pressures up.
But base performances being higher than forecast it's really attributable to a lot of good work on a lot of people's part with the well surveillance our control room we really do well reviews daily.
Last thing I'll talk about on this slide is we do have a good inventory of wells waiting on completion.
At the end of June we had 6 rigs operating.
As we noted we're down to 5 today but we have 37 wells waiting on completion.
We'll be working that all.
But that's going to allow us to keep our volumes strong through the year.
Going to an Appalachia discussion on Slide 17 we have more than 135 000 net acres with Marcellus Shale potential.
About 2/3 of that acreage is HBP.
We're currently producing 146 million and we've reduced our rig count as we've noted.
We do have about 6 million to 8 million a day shut in net shut-in volumes in Appalachia as we have some ongoing offset activity.
But one of the most exciting things that's occurred up there in the last quarter is in our central area and you'll it depicted on the map our 4 wells that we brought on there had average IPs of 7.2 million a day from average laterals between 4 600 and 4 700 feet.
So that's something that we're going to take a look at.
And we actually may end up drilling some more wells there in the second half of the year than we had originally forecasted based on these results.
And finally we're doing some similar activities up in Appalachia to enhance our production as we have in the Haynesville and we're looking at our seasoning time and completion method.
We're managing our simultaneous operations and we're going to drill where we think we have the best opportunities to realize the economic -- good strong economic returns.
And finally I'll note that we have a good inventory of wells in Appalachia as well that we'll be completing during the year.
Again even with the reduced rig activity we will still bring in a significant number of wells online.
Slide 18 depicts our non-shale assets.
It's a significantly large part of our portfolio more than 20% of our net production.
We are drilling a lot in those as we noted.
As always we're only drilling in the Permian area there as always over the last couple of years.
We're waiting on prices to go back up and there will be some drilling locations that we can bring about when prices recover.
We're negotiating a joint venture opportunity with private investors in this portfolio and Doug will update us on that.
Slide 19 depicts Permian Basin and you can see on the map there the yellow depicts the acreage that we currently hold.
That's more than 25 000 acres depicted right there.
Now that's where we're doing the bulk of our Canyon Sands or all of our Canyon sands development.
But right in that area we're testing Cline and Wolfcamp opportunities.
We've drilled I think 4 vertical wells at this point.
We've taken core samples.
We're analyzing that and will evaluate if we want to drill the horizontal well in this part of our portfolio later this year.
The waterflood has been very successful.
It's doing just as we had forecast.
We've seen well up to 470 barrels of oil a day during the last week and the forecast EUR of 875 is going to be moving into the proved reserve category as we realize the results that we had hope for.
We still have a really good cash margin out here.
Now one more thing before I get off of this page is on the map you can see that both -- that to the South the West to the North of our acreage there's some active horizontal drilling in both the Cline and the Wolfcamp.
We're encouraged by results that we're seeing from our competitors but we're also encouraged by the results we're seeing from some of our vertical testing in core.
So standby for news on that.
The last slide I'll talk about is on Page 20 TGGT.
We have current throughputs approximately 1.5 Bcf a day.
We've done a good focus on cost control here and we're looking at an annualized EBITDA run rate based on our most recent months of around $150 million.
And of course EXCO share would be half of that.
The EBITDA is up 22% from the first quarter.
All of our capital programs are being funded from a combination of cash flow and debt.
We haven't had any drawdowns of late.
I don't see that we foresee any additional debt drawdowns in the immediate future.
And we are working with an -- our equity partner to evaluate the sale of the interest here.
With that I will turn it back over to Mr.
Miller who will open it up for questions and answers.
Okay.
And as you can kind of see that even though we're in difficult times we have a lot of people who've been through this before.
It was worse than this in the '80s and the guys that came out of that had liquidity and there are lot of transactions during the '80s.
And so it lasted a lot longer but we had shallower decline gas and oil.
Both commodities went down at once.
I think this is the first time in my history probably Steve's also that one commodity crashed and the other one went up.
So from a service company standpoint I think they like it better because as idiots like us quit drilling there's other guys that are way smarter than us out in the oilfield that will take the rigs.
So I think you can kind of see with the power plants switching from coal to gas in many of the ones that we're in contact with are shutting down coal and many many more gas-powered plants coming online here in the next couple of quarters.
So they're taking up gas.
Many of them have been in here.
I don't think many of them are hedged so a lot of them are looking for long-term contracts.
We're also starting to see nat gas go into vehicles.
We know it works.
Boone has been at the forefront of that.
It works in cars trucks.
But I think you're starting to see -- in the oilfield you're actually seeing people switch drilling rigs to the natural gas and you're starting to see frac fleet switch to natural gas too.
So a lot of demand in the oil and gas fields for nat gas.
It really saves costs and it works like a charm.
But I think the big thing that everybody is up in over is shipping gas to other countries at least 1 permit has been approved.
I know there's another 10 underway.
I think that could begin as early as '15 or '16.
Keep in mind there is real economics in that.
We're producing gas like dopes at $3 today.
And the Chinese and the Japanese are paying $15 to $18 an Mcf.
Now it cost a lot of money to build a plant.
It costs a lot of money to get it over there but the math really does work.
And so I think there's a lot of guys talking about -- and I noticed here this last week India is having a little bit of problem.
I think they had half their population without power a couple of days ago because of their grid.
But they're a significant buyer also.
They're not paying exactly what China and Japan is but they are paying and looking for a lot of gas.
And I think the other thing once we get into shortage either this winter or next winter -- now we do have a lot of import facilities because they were all built because we were the highest user with the highest prices.
I don't know a lot of people that will bring LNG to the United States at $3 or $4 or $5 or $6 when there's somebody in China willing to pay them $18.
I may be wrong but I don't see many of those people.
So I think -- and I also don't believe like a lot of analysts are saying that now that gas is up to $3.08 that people come rushing back in to drill wells.
We have checked our portfolio and checked other people's portfolios and the economics on the conventional gas across the country you can't even make a reasonable rate of return until it's north of $6.
Some of the shales start turning on at $4 and $5 but not many of them.
So people are saying "If gas goes back to $4 we're going to flood the market with gas." Ain't happening.
People are saying "If gas goes back to $5 we're going to flood the market with gas." It ain't happening.
So I think we have a little debate going on here but I can tell you that the people in the industry that I know will not be moving rigs back in at $4 or $5 or $6.
With that come I'm going to shut up and turn it over to questions.
Matthew? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Looking at your gas production which was above the top end of the guidance and then kind of the comments that you made in terms of some of the improved well productivity in the Haynesville when you consider the well productivity gains and your backlog there does that make sense that your gas production should still fall here over the next couple of quarters? Well the answer is yes.
When you have 22 rigs running and you shut it down as fast as we did it just automatically going to fall.
I think our guys are doing everything they can to work the problem.
But these things as you've seen 70% 80% first-year decline rate.
And even with the choke that we're putting on -- Marcia what are the first year declines on these things? Well we're running probably about 60%.
60%.
So even with the restricted choke instead of 80% or 90% we're still running 60%.
So a lot of wells came on here in the last 12 months.
And I think you're just seeing that decline and the reduced activity.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And if we look at that strong performance of nat gas during the quarter would you attribute the bulk of that to the productivity gains or was there an element of backlog reduction that went into that as well? Productivity gains would be #1.
Even as we were shutting the rigs down we've slowed down the fracs.
And today we only have 1 frac crew out there where 8 months ago we had 4 of them out there.
And so we just slowed down the fracs.
So we're bringing the wells on slower which gives us the backlog.
But that will be caught up by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at your asset sale and acquisition objectives should we assume that whatever proceeds you may get from some kind of TGGT monetization would be used to acquire gas assets or do you expect that the net asset sales you're contemplating will ultimately lead to a reduction in your debt? I would say reduction in debt.
We are looking at deals have bid on deals.
We're looking at both oil and gas.
And we're most comfortable bidding on gas in our neighborhood.
We have bid on 3 oil deals with a partner came close on one of them.
But I'm still of the opinion that we have -- it's 50-50 up to down on oil.
And I'd say we're 2 or 3 to 1 up to down on gas.
So we're leaning towards gas.
But any asset sale we made today would just reduce.
Research Division</strong> And would that then imply that any acquisition that you do would get funded by some kind of equity or equity infusion or it would just come out of it -- it would come out of debt or there'll be some additional asset sale? No it depends on the size Brian.
I think if we did -- if we raise $0.5 billion or $1.5 billion and reduce debt our borrowing base is going to probably be maintained and our cheapest cost LIBOR plus 175 is still that.
It just depends on the component of PDP and hedgeability.
So I'm leaning towards gas.
I think most people that are invested in us think of us as a gas company.
But we're having some pretty good success out in West Texas and we have seen some pretty good success and gotten close on a couple of Eagle Ford deals.
So we're looking at all it's just math.
Your next question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Looking at your restricted cash balance what is the minimum that that can go to? Do you anticipate going forward? It can go to 0.
The restricted cash is really us and BG.
That's our next 3 months of operating cost and drilling cost.
So if we went to 0 rigs well it can't go to 0 because we always have operating but it can get pretty close.
We're expecting it to be in the $40 million range by year end.
Research Division</strong> And then on the cost cuts -- with the cost cuts you've made so far both on the operating side and the G&amp;A side how much really left is -- how much is there left in the structure of the company to go down? I know you've all got it in your guidance I mean do we think that's kind of the bare minimum as we look at '13 or? No no no.
It just depends on the deals.
We have people right now -- we don't want to fire anybody.
We just don't want to do that.
It hurts and we don't have any bad people.
We have people that are aggressive and working on it.
There's a lot of other costs we're cutting tickets to ballgames and things like that were down.
And I mean it's just we're cutting everything we can.
But if gas goes down and we reduce to 0 rigs there -- we could have another cut.
The size of the company is reflected by these commodity prices.
We have great assets and great people and we'd like to keep them coupled.
And we have a couple things we're talking about selling and we got a lot of things that are potential to buy.
I think I'd like to buy some things and keep some of these people working.
But they -- it has to make sense.
Research Division</strong> May I switch on that in the Haynesville who were the net sellers in the Haynesville? The public operators or there's still plenty of private acreage? If I told you I'd have to kill you.
Research Division</strong> And then last question on the Marcellus with your improved results in Central PA what do we do with that since we're restricted with 1 rig and focusing on Lycoming? I mean it was good that we put that up but I mean does that change your plans or is it still just to...
Well I think we're meeting -- yes I hear you.
I think we're meeting and you'll note that we didn't tell you what county it was in because we don't want any of you guys out running around leasing.
There is acreage available.
We're working on a couple of plans there and I think we're going to detail that and see if want to buy any acreage in the neighborhood because the math looks pretty intriguing.
And so if we can -- good news about Chesapeake not being in the game much is acreage costs have come down in almost every play across the country.
So there is availability.
We're looking at that availability.
And before we put 4 rigs up there we're going to make sure our land position is proper.
I will add William that we are evaluating a 4-well development in the Central area that we could drill in the third quarter.
I'm not promising we will but we're looking at that as we speak.
So we may remove the rig over there for a brief period of time.
In lieu of other.
In lieu of other opportunities.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious in terms of your bank credit facility.
What's your next redetermination date? And you all mentioned you'd be 3.8x levered for the credit facility by the end of the year.
What's sort of the max allowable on the facility there? 4.5x is the covenant and our next redetermination is scheduled to be October.
Then we're already in discussions with the bank group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of the Marcellus can you give us some color on sort of where well costs are now? Where do you think those are trending to as we get further along in the year? Our development well costs are in the $6.3 million to $6.5 million per well range that’s for drilling and completion and we're targeting getting down to around $6 million sometime early next year with aspirations to go below that during the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your conventional asset sales just curious in terms of how we should think about that structurally.
Would you guys like to potentially divest all of your conventional assets where you wouldn't own anything or would you want to sell an interest or is it kind of early to say what type of structure that might take? Well we're looking at -- it's called -- I'm calling it kind of a sidecar private MLP where it will be structured like an MLP where we've maintained an ownership we operated it and had distributions.
I think everybody is intrigued with that.
Many private equity guys have shown interest.
We've had an offer or 2 we have it out with 4 or 5 people and we'll be getting those back in.
And hopefully there's a transaction but nothing can be assured.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On TGGT so the net was up quite a bit.
The throughput was up I guess.
It was flat overall and your equity throughput was up.
I'm just curious some more color on how you were able to squeeze so much more out of the cost line and the outlook for that? And if you have the TGGT Q2 revenue number handy? I don't think I have TGGT in front of me Subash.
I can follow-up with you on that.
The bottom line is when you've got an organization that for a year has been scrambling to reinstall rebuild facilities from our incident last year just like when we're running with 30 rigs on the corporate side it's the focus of the organization.
And once that got done in the beginning of the second quarter we started looking hard at costs and seeing where we're going to be more effective.
So as compared to guidance prior guidance the revenues are higher than we anticipated because of the flatter EXCO throughput.
But most of the -- a lot of the deed is going to be related to the cost side.
And I will add that we've had a significant reduction contract labor there as well similar to what we did in the upstream.
We've had some cuts in the employee headcount as well.
And to kind of follow up on that it's also -- we staffed up to build a couple hundred million dollars a year of projects and those are all behind us.
And I think you can figure out what the revenue is.
We were running 1.5 Bcf average throughput through there a day and we probably averaged $3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I'm trying to understand how more equity revenues probably dumb question but how more equity throughput increases your revenue.
So do you -- you just charge more for equity? No.
It's a contract.
It's simple math more volumes at the same rate equal more revenues.
The bulk of the TGGT's revenues come from the gathering trading transportation et cetera that we charge.
EXCO is an arms-length organization.
It's the same rate we charge any third party...
Yes we have other operators on the system and they get charged the same thing we do.
It is a standalone animal.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But in Q1 wasn't throughput around 1.5 Bcf too or do I have the wrong number there? No it was right at it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll just follow up later.
And then -- so in the contractors do they show up in lifting costs or G&amp;A costs? EXCO contractors? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Depends on type of contractors.
I mean they are all over the place.
We could have IT contractors in G&amp;A and we have well head contractors that are in LOE.
And some in capital.
And some in capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the Marcellus do you expect -- I think you said earlier in your public comments that you expected growth.
And I'm just reading I guess the ops update.
What are your latest thoughts on how many wells you want to complete out there this year? We're still sticking with the original budget plan that's noted in the press release so that could alter.
I think we put some language in the press release that we're evaluating that as we speak and it could change our activity levels as such.
But right now our target remains to drill 49 gross wells that's 12.4 net.
We’d complete them.
So we'll complete on the order of about 40 wells this year.
That ain't going to move the needle.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on my end on the TGGT side do you have an estimate or current thinking on what let's say next 12-months EBITDA will look like at an exit rate basis from 2012? So I guess what '13 EBITDA will look like based on the new cost improvements year-to-date? Yes I mean we're expecting fourth quarter EBITDA kind of annualize based on the guidance at about $140 million.
And I think that as we've kind of said going back to some prior questions too about the difference in production and is that going to change your forecast what's happening to us is our -- we're going to bottom out in our decline rate sooner rather than later.
And as we've kind of talked about early on that if you look at our fourth quarter generally speaking annualized that's a pretty decent look at '13 all things being equal and subject to change.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So are the declines material enough to meaningfully impact that EBITDA rate that you're thinking currently? No.
No we're not -- what I'm saying is I think basically the fourth quarter volumes are reflective of what the bottoming out in our decline and our current capital expectations would do for us in '13.
And so that all translates right back into TGGT.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as it relates to the sale of that asset can you provide any color around maybe how conversations evolved with BG and the thinking of the sale there? And how that maybe helped move the process into a more formal type status? I think they're totally onboard we're in communication with them on a daily basis and everybody’s aligned on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Haynesville what are current returns looking like on that $8 million well target current stroke? Right on 20% which is about our minimum.
So they keep showing me 20%.
So it looks like that's it.
We’d rather have 40%.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
All right.
Then last one on my end is just any indications yet from the bank group what the price tag might look in that following determination? Well we've had discussions and then course with 20 banks in there they’re kind of -- we have heard maybe $3 for next year but then we've heard from other ones $3.50 for it so I'm kind of guessing that they're going to settle in if nothing changes at $3.50 for next year going up a quarter to $0.50 a year to at top of $4.50.
That's kind of the indications we're getting.
But again I think they're all evaluating it.
I think coming in 3 months ago if you'd ask they are going down.
And today they're looking at maintaining.
Is that right Paul? That's what we have -- that's what we believe.
We haven't talked to him since yesterday so that's pretty current.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Pirrello with Pendulum Capital Markets.
Last quarter you guys made a statement that the sale of the TGGT pipeline will bring in about $500 million to $700 million to EXCO.
With the recent change in the price of natural gas do you see that valuation coming up some more or? I'm not ready to say that yet Ray.
That was for our 1/2 interest I think that was a target.
And we were in this negotiations and discussions where -- and one of the parties was in that range for 1/2 interest.
Part of the thing we're evaluating is 100% or 50%.
And I think you can stick with that range.
But I've been told to quit predicting so I'm not predicting anymore.
We're not winning the Super Bowl this year.
All right.
Well last year you guys offered $18.50 a share for the company to take a private.
Based on the valuation of natural gas last year the levels at where they were and also the assets of EXCO you guys made the decision in that price.
Where do you see that valuation today for the price of EXCO? I mean if there was to be the same multiple used then today where would you put the price of EXCO on a pegging private number? It would be lower.
But I haven't looked at it.
I think back then we're -- the forward curve got up to $5.50.
I think the forward curve is $4.50 right now and that has a lot to do with it.
So capital budgets back then were faster.
Capital budgets today are slower.
I'm not going to sit here and predict numbers but it's lower than $18.50.
But it's purely price.
The assets haven't gone anywhere.
We're just differing drilling.
Okay.
In terms of the daily activity of the company what has Wilbur Ross’ activity been in terms of the bid activity of the company and/or these negotiations with these projects? He comes in every morning early and gets lunches for everybody and leaves late.
Wilbur is on the board.
He is a large shareholder.
We have a lot of dialogue with him.
He helps us.
He's a smart guy.
We met with him in New York last week.
He's got ideas.
He's got suggestions.
He's been through this before and he's somebody that we talk to 3 or 4 times a week.
But from an activity standpoint he got into this because he thinks gas -- he wanted to be a consolidator of gas.
He loves the idea of us acquiring more gas.
And as we look at deals we run them by him.
And so far we're totally aligned and trying to do the same thing he is.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Pattarozzi with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the Marcellus acreage 2/3 held by production and going down to 1 rig currently how long can you stay at 1 rig and still hold all your acreage? Well 2 things.
We're evaluating -- we don't have to hold our acreage let's start with that.
We're looking at acreage that expires in the next couple of years and we have options to renew.
And with acreage costs going down if it's marginal then we'll let it expire because we can lease it cheaper.
All those are underway.
Just because acreage -- just because it's not held doesn't mean you can't let it go.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any focus on which area central versus northeast you would prefer to keep? We prefer to keep both but I'd say that both areas have spots where we're looking at leasing more and will ensure HBP.
And we're in good shape on the key areas.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going to your commentary earlier on kind of gas prices in the current market and what basins are economic or not where would you need to see gas price to go back to 3 rigs in the Marcellus? Well we're having meetings on that right now.
I think where our acreage is we probably need $4.
If we were Cabot we'd only need $2.50.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the Marcellus you had some issues lately with the drought in the Northeast.
Any operational hiccups on your end? No.
No not any impact at all from excess water.
We spent a lot of time and a lot of effort and a lot of money over the last 3 years insuring our water supply and our water disposal.
And so we're in great shape.
The next question comes from the line Nathan Weiss with Unit Economics.
A couple of questions regarding production and the productivity enhancements.
First it looks like you actually revised up last quarter's gas production by a little over 4 million a day.
Is that correct? It's the effect of the NGL breakout in our Permian.
Okay.
But the total production number both from the Qs and the slideshow actually went up from what you reported in the second quarter.
I mean we are on a non-equivalent basis reporting a little more volume because we are reporting the NGLs.
Okay.
Secondly can you talk about your backlog of uncompleted wells from the end of the first quarter to the end of second quarter? I think we have it on the chart Nathan.
Did you miss the call? No I was sitting here.
It's actually pretty entertaining but...
Okay it's in there.
You have it on the tip of your tongue.
We'll point you to the right slide.
I mean you show on the Appalachia like on 17 but you actually...
You're talking about wells drills and not completed? I think we have 37 in the Haynesville and how many we have in Appalachia? 28.
28.
As of June 30.
Yes as of June 30.
And we did one...
In the first quarter call you actually -- or in the slide show you only show the Appalachia breakout you don't show the...
The first quarter well I don't have all my slides from the first quarter.
This is now the second quarter.
Similar number.
Understand.
Just trying to change from first quarter to...
Got you got you.
We can get that.
We'll get it back to you.
I can't remember.
I'll say probably it was less because we had more rigs and we -- I think we had 2 frac fleets working.
Same thing in the Haynesville I think we were 4 going to 3 frac fleets.
So the wells that are waiting on completion is a product of frac fleets.
And we only have 1 in each area working.
We'll get back to you on that.
Do I have your phone number? Sure.
Okay.
I can shoot you an e-mail.
I don't think I've ever called you back.
I think we've talked a couple of times actually but..
No I'm kidding I'm kidding.
And then last question looking at curtailments I mean you went to 72 -- or to 22 million sequentially.
So the underlying production increase the 13 that you reported was net of that $50 million? Yes yes.
And that's a product of slowing down activity.
As we're drilling more wells and have more frac leads we shut in the offset production.
And so our guys have done a good job but most importantly our activity goes down we don't have as many shut-ins.
Keep in mind our guidance -- original guidance for Q2 embedded in that was about -- was 20 million to 25 million a day of net shut-ins.
So the 22 million that we reported was right in line with what we expected.
So the outperformance is not because of a reduced volume shut-in it is purely the wells are performing materially better than we initially anticipated.
Your next question comes from the line of Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the restricted choke the new restricted choke the 18/64th.
Can you quantify what that does to your tight curve and the sort of the first and the second year decline? I thought you'd never ask.
Are you still playing softball? Research Division</strong> I am.
Okay.
Marcia can you answer her question? Well I mean the intent there is -- on the restriction is to write in the initial -- the IP so we're bringing those down at a starting point to around 11 million 12 million a day and that affects then the initial decline.
It flattens out mainly affecting years 2 3 and 4.
So I don't have the number in front of me exactly but it does flatten out the curve and therefore we're getting a little higher EURs as a result of that.
No I mean operationally -- Mike we're leaving the pressure out more so it's staying open longer.
Is that right? That's correct higher pressure.
Yes.
So it's keeping the pressure higher longer in those fractures and I think the idea is we're getting slightly more gas out even at a slower rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so from the first month to let's say the 12 month what do you think that decline is? What we were saying is like 50% to 60% from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
And what we had before was a completely different profile where we're -- I'm paying at 20 million a day.
The initial month decline was -- the first month decline was 90-some percent flattened out it will be a factor of point A to [indiscernible] so it's a completely different profile much flatter.
And as I mentioned we really believe it's a result of keeping the conduits and the reservoir open longer by keeping the pressure from -- flatter through that profile in the reservoir keeping it open longer.
Anne I think the thing that I look at is from present value standpoint the crossover from our old way to this way -- Marcia when do we produce the same amount of gas as we did the old way? Well we're looking at slightly 1 year to 1.5 year.
Like between 12 and 18 months we're producing the same amount of gas.
But with the new one our -- the production rate after crossover is significantly higher.
Is that right? Yes.
So what we're saying is the higher rates in years 2 and 3 as a result of this and therefore propping up that base production.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Did we answer it did we answer it? Research Division</strong> Yes yes yes you did.
I think I can work with that.
And then the second question is about the cost in the Haynesville.
From your reduction down to about 8 how much of that say from 9.5 is service cost coming down? And how much of it is efficiency gains? And I guess sort of coupled with that how much -- what's really happened to your cycle time like your spud-to-spud between wells? Boy you hit it one right down right up the middle for Harold.
Harold take it.
Okay.
On the cost side really there's a -- the function -- the cost reduction efforts are really a function of changes -- in design changes that we've made [indiscernible] changes in procedure in terms of our 2-bit procedure and then obviously the market adjustment.
So in trying to take a look at that to say "Okay what is controllable from a standpoint of design specifications?" I would say "2/3 of that number that we've realized to date are things that are controllable to the changes procedural changes and design changes." So let's say about 2/3 of that reduction is truly on our side.
And then the rest of it is rig and mostly frac fleets.
Correct.
And I will add that about 1 year ago or so our spud to rig release time was probably 40 to 42 days.
The last 16 wells our guys have drilled the spud-to-rig release time is 35 days.
So we're seeing some definite improvement in our drilling efficiency.
That's significant savings because I think we look at that on a daily full about 60 000 a day.
So everyday we save on that average of 60 000 even though the contract drill -- the rig is only 20 of it.
Your next question comes from the line of David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
I wanted to kind of touch on what you mentioned earlier regarding a large shareholder who were saying there's a -- there's still a substantial disconnect in the current equity price based on the bounce in price of gas from Q2.
So I kind of want to touch on I think what's management's view and the board as far as the cost of that? Well I mean I think a little bit of it is a result of not doing the go private.
So we have a lot of [indiscernible] on it.
We've got a lot of new guys coming in shorting it.
We've got up to 35 million shares short.
So that's an extra 35 million shares we're lugging around as that goes.
And we're having to take a lot of bullets out there.
The guys that are short keep spreading rumors -- we're going bankrupt next week so I don't like it but we don't have time to really battle the battle.
So -- and being a gas producer has been like producing poison for the last 6 to 12 months.
And so what okay.
But I don't know I think it's a product of all of it.
Okay.
And then going forward I know obviously there's a bunch of balls in that air as far as what kind of acquisition on potential properties and opportunities as well at the same time monetization of some of the assets to help either alleviate debt or use that cash for other purposes.
I mean are you looking at maybe helping provide further clarity to the business model as we go into this end of the year here? And with those proceeds if you don't find the right opportunity for maybe an acquisition is there any potential to either look to buy shares back or special dividends things that help sort of create the confidence in the business plan going forward? You sound like you're a board member.
The answer is -- let's make it clear.
For the last 30 years we've been an acquisition and development-type company.
We have bought over $10 billion worth of assets over the last 7 years.
We've created a team that has been very instrumental and involved in the shale opportunities that now exist.
So we're changing on the run but if we were to sell assets and can't make any significant acquisition and we have to be disciplined at that and the reason I say you sound like a board member we have a lot of guys that want to buy stock and we have a lot of guys that have had discussions around special dividends.
So all of that's on the table.
But being clear about what the company is I think we are clear.
We're a gas company first and foremost and we've got a team set up to look at and acquire additional assets and we do have experience out in the oil areas and we're not afraid of bidding on them.
But I think -- think of us as a gas company in spite of being bad.
And then just my last question.
I know there's a lot of -- again a lot of things going on.
But if you look out the next 2 years and not just 2013 which I think is still going to be somewhat challenging well let's say 2014 '15 '16 and prices are within the ballpark of where they are today.
I mean how do you look or envision EXCO -- the type of company EXCO will be a few years down the road? Will you be -- I know you're doing a lot of rationalization on the cost side.
So are you attempting to become lean and mean so that 3 4 years down the road you're this extremely strong powerful company? Or what's sort of your view looking at the company several years out? What do you want to -- what do you envision? We're pretty lean and mean right now.
We're just getting old.
But I would say if gas is $3.50 3 4 5 years from now we've made a mistake.
But we will have acquired a lot and we will have hedged a lot and the world would have come to an end because China -- as long as China is paying what they're paying and Japan is paying what they're paying gas ain't going to be $3.50.
But if it is we will be making acquisition and hedging them and be fine.
We just won't be drilling.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Hulme with Porter Orlin.
LLC</strong> Just a follow-up on Page 16.
The -- what kind of time frame or backlog does that 37 wells waiting on completion? You said it's a function of a frac availability or frac contracting.
So when you slow it down how long does it take to bring that on? And does that give you some kind of low cost -- low overhead costs production growth as you bring those on? Hal do you want to -- I mean I think that that's a product of having 5 rigs running and only 1 frac fleet and being able to time it.
It's an upside for us to have this on our books.
When we complete these we will move them into the proved category and we'll probably bring some 28 to 35 of those on this year.
We don't have any problem with our frac fleets.
We've got one under long-term contract.
So we're methodically going through and developing units and it's manufacturing mode and as these units are developed then we move into frac fleet.
And it's all scheduled and this is something that we'll work off very methodically and...
Yes.
The way I look at it is each one of those we've already spent $6.5 million.
And they're not in PDP.
And we're scheduling $1.5 million frac job.
Each one of those we spent another $1.5 million to bring them into PDP and significant production.
I mean -- I think the way their booked is proved behind pipe in the Haynesville and as we bring them on they go into PDP.
And it's just a timing and scheduling and we're able to save costs as we do it.
It's under our control.
Yes.
Each one of those is going to get approximately an 11-stage frac and it's going to take how long Harold each frac? For a 4-day job we're looking at 4 to 5 days typically 4 days.
We're just running daylight operation from the frac which was -- that's what we're doing right now.
Yes.
When we were going crazy Geoff we had 2 of the 4 that we’re working 24/7.
And so right now we're just working daylight.
It's safer but it's a little slower and we're not in a hurry to put gas on at $2.14 or whatever it is.
Your next question comes from the line of Amine Benali with Manulife Asset Management.
At the end of your call you made a statement that people might be worried that if gas price was to be $4 $5 that -- in your words we might flood the market with gas.
And I think you're referring to the industry.
I wanted to ask more about your insight or what gives you confidence that that is not going to happen? And that's the only question I have.
Okay.
The main thing is we look across our asset base which is pretty common.
We have Cotton Valley we probably have 1 500 development locations in there that we've taken out of the proved category and move them to probable and possible.
At current costs that takes between $6 and $6.50 to make an economic return.
So we're not going to drill it.
And we happen to know 50 other operators in the neighborhood that will not be drilling them also because the economics -- we could actually go to the Bakken if we were in the heart of it which we're not and we're not going.
But those rate of returns are probably 70% 80% up there.
And so if Chesapeake or XTO or one of those guys if they have x amount of capital to spend I think they would logically look at what's my highest rate of return and let's spend the capital there.
But if you go to the Rockies you go to Appalachia you go to West Texas you go to the Barnett and look at what kind of -- what price gas do you need to move rigs in and begin developing again 90% of the assets out there take somewhere between 5 and 8.
I mean we have areas in the Haynesville where we won't drill unless gas gets to 8.
So which means it's totally off the table right now.
But I think there's very few areas of this country that are pure gas where people will drill under $4 $5.
And you have look at the operators too.
In fact to Doug's point just because the Basin might start becoming economic at a certain level you have to look at who the operators are and what their other capital allocation could be.
And so unless oil gets below 60 and in some places maybe 80 there are better returns that's still going to be on the oil plays that most companies have either leased up and so now they have the same drill hole -- on the oil plays as they did on the gas or it's just pure economics...
We've just gone through a period where there are 3 or 4 operators that had 50 to 180 rigs running that weren't drilling them based on economics.
They were drilling based on whole acreage.
And I think they've all slowed down now because acreage costs are coming down so I think you're going to get a more disciplined industry allocating their capital to making rates of return.
I can't even believe that's going to happen.
No I appreciate that.
So as we're watching the gas rig count collapse and hopefully dip below 500 then we can take comfort and maybe some of that is sustainable or at least some of that...
No no.
I think that's right.
And I think we can debate when gas is going to start going up.
And our opinion when we were going private it was going to be a 3- or 4-year period but I can't expect the gas to go to 3.
Since it's done to 2 and below you've seen reports of some of the largest operators including somebody like Encana and Chevron and some of those guys say "We're not drilling dry gas anymore until further notice." Once they move out of those areas they usually don't come back in a week or 2.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks Matthew.
I appreciate everybody being on the call.
I hope we answered all questions.
I think we have 1 or 2 to get back to -- Nathan I got that one.
And we appreciate everybody.
Our noses are down and our butts are up.
We're working hard as we can and we're looking at costs.
You can see a product of the work the first half of the year.
We'll continue to look at costs.
Everybody here is working as hard as they can in a really really tough gas environment.
And I think the fruits of our labor you'll be seeing by the end of the year.
Thanks everybody.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.