Good morning.
My name is LeRalle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to EXCO Resources Second Quarter Earnings Release and Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Mulhern Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining the second quarter EXCO Resources earnings call.
I'm Mark Mulhern Chief Financial Officer.
With me today in Dallas are Doug Miller our Chairman and CEO; and Hal Hickey our President; and Chris Peracchi our Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations.
There are a number of other senior management folks in the room but I won't introduce them all.
We posted a set of slides on our IR website last night and we will be reviewing that material on this call.
On Pages 16 and 17 of the slide deck we have included our disclosures regarding forward-looking statements.
I would ask you to consider those pages along with the rest of our SEC filings when evaluating our company.
Today's presentation does include forward-looking information.
So now I'll turn the call over to Doug Miller for some opening remarks.
Hal Hickey and I will come back and go through the slide deck with you in our respective areas.
And then we'll go to Q&amp;A.
So Doug over to you.
Thanks Mark.
I think everybody realized we've been very busy here over the last actually a year on the Chesapeake deal.
Literally 50 people around here have been working day and night for the last 2 months to get them across the finish line.
We'll get into those but great acquisitions.
We've been working on the Eagle Ford for over a year with Chesapeake.
We've bid on 4 or 5 deals.
It's an area that we have had some focus on and we'll get into it later.
But we're real happy with it.
I think the deal that was negotiated was a good deal for both Chesapeake and us.
To date we've met with CNOOC who is a partner in the deal.
And 2 of the largest landowners we've had 2 meetings with them because it's very critical that our operating people have communication with the large land owners.
The land owners -- this is 312 000 gross acres and it's very critical that everybody cooperates.
So our guys have already started talking schedules with them.
So I think it's going to be good.
I think everybody's at -- we're all aligned.
They would like as much production on their land as we can get and so can we.
And I think for the first time they're going to see somebody like us who has created manufacturing in a lot of wells off of single pads which we've been doing over in the Haynesville.
So those meetings have gone great and we're looking forward to working with those people.
The Haynesville acquisition was -- 90% of it was wells we already operate.
We took that over earlier no people needed.
I think you will see EXCO begin hiring quite a few people here this year.
I consider the last 6 months kind of our low for the last 3 or 4 years.
We're back at it.
We're looking at additional acquisitions.
Second quarter results were solid.
I think I've heard a couple of people yell at me about only making $0.10.
The $0.10 one of the things that we have a hard time is at the very end we get our DD&amp;A rate from our -- and our DD&amp;A rate was slightly higher and that was a couple of cents.
So if somebody can help me forecast DD&amp;A rates for the next 2 quarters we'll probably be better at forecasting.
G&amp;A was slightly higher than forecast but I think we talked about -- we moved most of our Appalachian group during the second quarter down here.
And so we had some extraordinary expenses in there.
I think they'll be back to normal going into the third and fourth quarters.
Cash flow was better than expected slightly better pricing.
Revenues were slightly better than we forecast.
Again clean living and higher prices helped us there.
Overall solid results but I think from now on you're going to start seeing some significant differences in our makeup oil and gas.
I think our guys are very excited about the Eagle Ford and we'll get into that a little later.
I think we're just taking it over we're getting a lot of cooperation from Chesapeake's operating people.
What we're think about doing because we're going to have a hard time today forecasting '14 is really over the next 30 to 60 days getting all the dust off and the data up so we can make good forecasts.
And maybe in October we'll have an Analyst Day in Dallas where we can go over everything in detail.
I think that would be something I'm going to suggest.
I see everybody writing that down now.
So I think that would be best for everybody from a public standpoint.
If we gave you a forecast on production or cash flows or anything today we wouldn't -- it would not be a great one.
I mean we can give you a range but I would rather give you good solid detail against production and forecast.
Acquisitions.
Again I talked about the acquisitions.
Keep in mind this was a billion-dollar deal that we started working on the Eagle Ford we started working on July of last year.
It did have its bumps in the road.
I started negotiating it with Aubrey and when he retired we had other people but it evolved into basically EXCO is buying the PDP which is fairly significant and which we like.
It's what pays down debt.
And then at the same we're negotiating a final agreement with KKR on our joint drilling deal and it's something that we had an outline of and an MOU 6 months ago.
We've actually worked on 3 or 4 deals with them that we've bid on.
Never got them across the finish line.
But once we got this across the finish line the agreement that we had with the top people at KKR who are great ended up in the lawyers and now we have deals in case the sun comes up in the West instead of the East.
But it took us about 30 or 60 days of detailed work there.
Again in that deal it is a joint venture where they put up 50% of the land.
They're going to put up 70% of the drilling on basically drilling PUDs.
And then we have some rights to buy it back after a year.
But when we closed the deal we had 300 locations identified.
And we think that's right but I think we're going to start -- Mike help me -- with 4 rigs starting September 1.
And the reason we were kind of anticipating 5 but I think our estimates on this were a spacing of 500 feet.
And I think what we're going to do because we're starting to hear in some areas down there they're actually going down to 250 feet.
We think 500 is right but we're going to have some spacing tests between now and year end.
Whether it's 250 feet -- if it ends up being 250 feet which I think is highly unlikely that would double the potential locations.
But we're going to try 250 feet 300 feet and 400 feet see if those are right and see if 500 feet is right.
So hopefully by -- now we won't know that by October but we can tell you where we're testing.
Harbinger joint venture which was closed in the first quarter conventional gas continues to operate in very good shape.
We have a couple of things planned for there.
We've made one little acquisition there and we have groups together.
We're looking at several significant acquisitions in that joint venture.
It's working just as expected.
It's conventional long life gas with a lot of locations parked over there.
But there's quite a few of those type deals on the market right now so we have a group putting in quite a bit of time.
KKR deal again was something that we've been working on a long time.
They have an affiliate who is probably as knowledgeable as any private equity group we've seen.
They've done a lot of energy deals.
They have engineers; they have geologists.
They have a lot of history in the Eagle Ford.
And our people have been working closely with them.
I bet we've had 10 meetings Marcia? And so far there hasn't been a fight yet that we haven't won.
I'll take Marcia against anybody.
But it's been -- they're good and I think the reason they wanted to team up is because of our people.
And the thing about having BG as a partner BG I think everybody realizes has a right to buy a half interest in the Haynesville.
They have 'til September 12 to give us an answer.
We don't -- we really don't know.
They've been in.
We've given them all the data.
We just don't know which way they're going to come out so we'll report when that happens.
And we'll go either way.
That's their right.
The joint ventures with Harbinger and BG and KKR give us a lot of flexibility.
I think KKR is very interested.
We've kind of created a cookie cutter to do this joint venture in other significant plays.
We are looking at other areas.
I think we've talked to you about that.
We are -- we would like to get bigger in the Marcellus and we have spent a lot of time.
There's a lot of people in this room that spent a lot of time out in Midland.
And so if we can find the right West Texas deal that would be another area that we would have an interest.
If everybody would turn to Slide 3 -- Slide 4 I'm sorry.
$1 billion of acquisitions.
I think with our board this was highly debated these 2 acquisitions with EXCO where it is.
The borrowing base and revolver on it were key parts of this.
It was -- our banks did a great job.
So one of the things that we're going to be working on here for the rest of the year and next year is create a plan that pays debt off fast while we develop it.
And I think that's what the KKR allows us to do.
I think production we're probably going to have some surprises here.
We bought all the PDP and I think we gave models to both the banks and internally.
But late we found out we have -- so I think we're going to expect some surprises maybe by the fourth quarter -- there are 22 wells that were completed and not on production and 2 more drilling that we're buying 100% of.
And so Mike and Harold as we get those turned over they'll probably be taking over the completion parts of a lot of those wells.
We expect them all to be good.
A significant amount of them are in the core area.
But just to separate the land from the partnerships we went ahead and took over all those.
So I kind of expect some significant production surprises by the fourth quarter but I can't tell you what they are.
So as soon as we dust all those off and get them we'll be able to report that in October.
Midstream TGGT you guys are getting -- going crazy.
We're down to 3 people.
We're working on an MOU as we speak.
We're in communication with BG.
They're actually coming in today.
We're going to have a meeting with them and we're try to get that across the finish line.
It would go a long way to reducing that $400 million bridge part.
We expect that -- I'm not going to give any more dates because everybody thinks I'm a liar but we're actually in final negotiations with 3 people.
Managing capital spending.
It's something that we talk about every Monday.
We've been able to have some spectacular results in the Haynesville.
We're forecasting and I think the last couple of wells -- Harold help me -- $7.5 million which is kind of way below what we thought we'd ever get to.
But the last 5 or 6 wells have been right on that number which helps our economics.
We're using $7.2 million for our wells down the Eagle Ford on our modeling.
And if we can take what we know in the Haynesville down there it wouldn't surprise me to get that down to $6.5 million pretty quick.
That's my target.
Harold is -- he hates me saying that out loud but I think that's actually what he thinks he can do too.
Again our focus for the Eagle Ford is to become one of the better operators down there.
Our guys have been pawing at the dirt for the last 6 months because we thought we were going to close this earlier.
We're ready willing and able.
And I think the team's set up and ready to go down there.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Hal to go over some operations.
Thanks Doug and good morning to everyone on the call.
At EXCO we've had another strong operational quarter and I want to thank our employees contractors service companies across all of our businesses and areas for their efforts.
We continue to implement our company strategy that Doug just talked about.
We're very focused on working safely and in full compliance as we manage our base business and expand the portfolio through acquisitions both in core areas and in new plays like the Eagle Ford.
Moving to Slide 6 you can see that we provide an overview of our areas and activities.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see our key operating areas particularly located in Texas Louisiana Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
Back on June 30 we had 4 operated rigs running across the portfolio but as we make these acquisitions and we further some of our plans and we get these drilling partnerships in place we could end the year with 11 12 or so rigs as their plans are developed and implemented both in the new areas and in those areas where we've had ongoing operations.
Moving particularly to Haynesville/Bossier area located in DeSoto Parish Louisiana primarily we've continued our manufacturing-type development with a 3-rig drilling program.
And we now have 39 fully developed units.
With the acquisition in July of the 11 new sections from Chesapeake and I'll note that these sections are immediately contiguous with our previously owned acreage we now have 40 or more -- 40 or so units that we can develop in this core area.
And this is the area we designated as the heart of the Haynesville play.
As you can see on our slide 97% of our acreage is held by production.
And like Doug said I want to advise everyone that we continue to drop our average well costs in the Haynesville.
Total drilling and completion has been averaging about $7.7 million per well and like Doug said we've seen some recent all-in costs as low as $7.5 million.
Moving to Eagle Ford.
In our newly acquired area of South Texas again acquired from Chesapeake we plan to implement a manufacturing-type development program with 4 to 5 rigs.
We have 3 rigs drilling there today.
We believe we can generate some additional efficiency in the drilling and completion program by moving to this manufacturing mode that we've talked about where we simultaneously develop multiple wells in a unit from a small number of pads.
This development program will be done in conjunction with our working interest partners and KKR.
And KKR is going to fund 75% of our interest for drilling and completion costs through their newly formed drilling partnership with us.
Now in Appalachia we're very focused on evaluating our Marcellus shale acreage.
We've successfully moved the appropriate engineers geoscientists landmen accountants and other personnel from Pennsylvania to Dallas so that we can enhance our communications and share technology across teams better than we ever have.
And we don't have any rigs operating for us in Appalachia as of today but we will be drilling an appraisal well up there later this quarter.
We have about 2/3 of our Marcellus acreage held by production and our technical and land staffs are evaluating the acreage to determine what we're going to be doing to renew hold by drilling or release acreage up there.
In the Permian area outside of the partnership we actually have some acreage we acquired in the fourth quarter of '12.
We partnered with an experienced Permian player there and we're going to be evaluating this acreage for upside opportunities.
Now like Doug talked about we've got the partnership with Harbinger Group that we formed back in February this year and we put our East Texas North Louisiana and Permian area conventional assets into the entity which has its own credit facility.
We bought BG Group's Cotton Valley assets in March and put them into the partnership.
And like Doug said we're continuing to seek additional conventional assets to buy and put into this business to grow it.
Finally on Slide 6 I'll reiterate that we're continuing our efforts in conjunction with BG to sell our equity interest in TGGT our midstream business and that business should have EBITDA somewhere in the $135 million to $140 million or so range for full year '13 and EXCO holds 50% of TGGT.
Moving over to Slide 7.
It provides an overview of our Eagle Ford acquisition assets and plan.
The deal closed at the end of July and contains acreage in Zavala Dimmit Frio and La Salle Counties in the oil window of the play.
We acquired about 55 000 acres associated with producing assets and we have a farm-out option on nearly 150 000 additional net acres.
Our initial development plan focuses on the 21 000-acre core area which is primarily in Zavala and this will be the initial area of focus for our EXCO/KKR drilling partnership.
In this area this core area we have some 300 identified drilling locations and we plan to operate 4 or 5 rigs in the area in the near future.
This acquisition has internally engineered reserves of about 29 million barrels of oil equivalent as of April 1 the effective date of the transaction and that's using NYMEX strip pricing.
But as we sold some of our proved undeveloped reserves to KKR as part of the partnership transaction the net reserves of EXCO down there is slightly over 20 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Finally on this slide you can see that our recent production totaled about 6 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and oil makes up about 85% or so of those volumes.
The last slide I'll talk about is on Slide 8 where we get into an overview of the Haynesville acquisition again from Chesapeake that closed mid-July.
As I noted earlier and as you can see on the slide this acreage is immediately South and contiguous with our quality Haynesville acreage in DeSoto Parish where we've had our ongoing manufacturing program.
We acquired incremental working interest of about 22% on some 5 700 net acres from Chesapeake and 170 wells that EXCO operates and we acquired 62% working interest on 11 000 net acres within 11 sections that were formerly operated by Chesapeake.
And we'll add some 55 drilling locations from these 11 sections which are all held by production.
Internally engineered reserves with this acquisition total about 365 Bcfe effective January 13 again run with a management price deck based on NYMEX.
Earlier this year the production totaled about 114 million a day.
However as typically occurs in these shale plays and without any drilling the production has been on the forecast to decline rate and it now totals about 80 million or so per day of net volumes.
Now with that I'm going to turn the discussion back over to Mark Mulhern who is going to take us through some details regarding our transactions the financial performance and our guidance for the quarter and the year.
Thank you Hal.
And I will briefly cover Slides 10 through 15 and just hit the high spots.
I now we've provided you previous information on these acquisitions.
But just to go through the strategic rationale slide on Page 10 it's a pretty good summary of why we're so excited about these deals.
First point I'd make is cash flow from PDP.
The mix of producing properties and development opportunities fit our financial appetite well and allows us the opportunity to increase EXCO's overall production and cash flow.
On the diversity front the Eagle Ford provides us with a new play and an inventory of drilling locations.
It lessens our concentration on dry gas and comes with production history to shorten our learning curve.
In terms of the Haynesville this fortifies our position in the Haynesville.
These assets are synergistic with our holdings there and allows us to leverage our existing infrastructure and experience on more locations.
Finally there are some real upsides related to the farm-out acreage additional horizons and operational efficiencies.
So we were able to put in some hedges above our acquisition price assumptions.
So we've gotten off to a very good start here.
If you turn to Slide 11.
Just a couple of minutes on our partnership with KKR.
Number one as Doug talked about they have a very strong technical team in Houston and have real-time experience in the Eagle Ford through their ventures with Hilcorp and Comstock.
Number two they have money and want to invest in commodities.
And number three we believe the structure we have aligns both parties very well.
KKR gets their return on investment with a high velocity of capital resulting in attractive IRRs but they have a cap on their return.
EXCO gets access to acquire production at fair market values after financing just 25% of the drilling capital.
So we expect to drill 20 or 30 wells per quarter.
And as Doug said we've identified 300-plus locations supported by our engineering and KKR's.
The result is EXCO gets to acquire producing properties over the next 3 to 4 years without having to necessarily go to data rooms compete in auctions and face competition for these properties.
So all in all a very good structure for both companies in our opinion.
If you go to Slide 12 just to hit the high spots on the numbers.
As Doug said at the outset we realized higher prices in the quarter which offset year-over-year production declines.
Our operating costs continue to decline partially helped by the formation of the EXCO/HGI Partnership in February where our conventional long-lived assets were sold to that entity.
G&amp;A was higher due to nonrecurring items for severance and relocation of our Appalachian office to Dallas and the senior management succession at EXCO.
And finally cash flow was approximately $0.03 per share above our guidance.
Again overall what I'd say a solid quarter.
The last item I'll note on this slide is that we have estimated our internally generated engineered proved reserves to be 1.5 Tcfe with a PV-10 value of 1.9 billion at June 30 2013.
This is pro forma for the acquisitions at their respective effective dates and includes the Haynesville Properties that BG has a pref right to.
Turning to Slide 13.
We have summarized our liquidity on this slide.
Again about a $300 million decrease from 6/30/13 when the acquisitions are pro forma-ed in.
And importantly the asset sale tranche has already been reduced by the $131 million net on the Eagle Ford land purchase from KKR.
We've also included the liquidity available at TGGT and EXCO/HGI on this slide which are both in good shape on availability.
So then I would turn to Slide 14.
Again just give you a quick snapshot on where we are with respect to second quarter guidance.
So it shows we exceeded our second quarter adjusted EBITDA guidance by approximately $6 million for the quarter.
As I noted earlier the negative variance in G&amp;A and the underspending in CapEx are the most notable variances for the quarter when you look at where we are with the guidance.
So again pretty accurate in terms of the forecast relative to what we expected for Q2.
And then on Slide 15.
This is my final slide before we take your questions.
We've updated our adjusted EBITDA guidance to reflect the 2 acquisitions and the items that we know about.
So overall guidance for the year is up $95 million to $435 million.
This is again adjusted EBITDA versus our previous guidance of $340 million.
The bulk of this is driven by production increases obviously in oil and in gas; higher prices which are mostly supported by hedges; and cost management we expect for the remainder of the year.
So we've updated our CapEx estimates.
But I think as Doug and Hal both referred to we're honestly just digesting this acquisition and we're still finalizing our drilling plans and a rate at which we will ramp up in the Eagle Ford and our new sections in the Haynesville.
So more to come on our CapEx and frankly our forecast into '14.
So before I turn the call back over to Doug for questions and answers we're very pleased to be in the position to raise the guidance today and to begin to execute on harvesting the value of these acquisitions for our shareholders.
So thank you.
And I'll let Doug officiate the Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Before we get into Q&amp;A just one of the things that we negotiated with the banks was the ability to hedge prior to closing.
We agreed that we would hedge up to 80% for '13 '14 '15.
That has all been accomplished.
Probably an average of about $10 a barrel that's all on our books now.
Now the one thing that we're going to be looking at Tyler's [ph] working on it as we complete these next 22 wells plus the 2 or 3 that are drilling we would probably go forward and hedge some more oil because we think those things could come in pretty good.
And as we get PDPs we'll look at doing that.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
And we'll stick with you as long as you need us.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A question on -- there's probably a simple explanation here.
But what's the difference between the 50% sold to KKR for the undeveloped acreage or whatever for the acreage and the 75% that they're funding? And why aren't the 2 numbers exact? It's the structure of the deal.
We consider owning the land an equity investment and so we split the equity investment with them on the land side.
Those were all locations that were evaluated on PV-20s.
So we split that.
And then the drilling which has slightly more risk they're putting up 75% and we're putting up 25%.
It's a way of structuring something.
I think we worked on it for a year and we're planning on doing more of them.
Research Division</strong> So if you -- in the participation agreement when you buy the 75% that's the 75% of the well value? Yes.
And what we're doing is we're -- this is anticipated right now to be 16 quarterly separate partnerships the way it's scheduled.
Now it could increase as we find more locations when a group of wells which they will prove and we will prove.
They're working on it as we speak.
And it looks like it's going to be between 20 and 30 depending on timing and how many rigs we have running.
Once they're on production 12 months later we will buy -- we have the ability to buy them in at PV-10 of -- just PDP those 20 to 30 wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how do we think about then what residual interest after the sale of the well KKR has? They'll still have a residual interest in the PUDs for 50%? Yes.
Yes yes yes.
They will own 50% of the PUDs until we drill them up.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You talked about paying down debt and I'm really trying to focus on that in your opening comments.
When you think about doing that how much is a function of internally generated free cash flow versus asset sales? And from the free cash flow front how do you think about your rig count in the Haynesville going forward? And then how you invest towards oil growth versus gas growth? Yes.
I would say the idea is we have a couple of things that are on the block right now.
We'll find out about BG having a half-interest that would be 140 million or so that they have the right to do.
Again I don't know what they're going to do.
I can't imagine them not taking it.
But if they don't we love owning 100% of it.
We'll know that by the middle of September.
TGGT is the only other asset sale that we have on the block.
The rest of it will be from internally generated funds.
We're working on our capital program right now.
Depending on how we end up with production I think we're going to be -- I think we're looking at around the $300 million capital budget for next year.
Now there's a possibility that we might be putting the Haynesville into a drilling joint venture like the KKR.
If that's the case it will have significant paydowns.
If not we'll have paydowns from cash flow.
And I'm kind of mentally targeting $200 million to $400 million a year under our current scenarios.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you mentioned your interest in doing more acquisitions.
What do you look for to determine that the company is at steady state and yet pursuing meaningful acquisitions makes less sense.
So are you looking for a certain resource life or an oil to gas mix or just a bigger acreage position in the Haynesville the Permian Basin? What should we look for for you to determine okay we've now kind of arrived? Well we've been here for a long time.
But I'd say there's 2 areas that -- number one the Haynesville is an area that we know there's 5 or 6 players in there.
There's a couple of smaller players.
We're in discussions with all of them.
That's an easy deal for us because we don't need people.
Marcia's got the whole area evaluated.
It's pretty simple for us to evaluate.
There aren't a lot of deals out there but we're in discussions on 2 or 3 fronts on that right now.
Most of them would include some production with them.
Almost everything in our neighborhood or a neighborhood that we'd have an interest in has at least one well drilled on each unit.
So those discussions are underway.
Eagle Ford we have a good asset that we have.
We are working with KKR right now on some of the farm-out acreage.
We're going to be doing some science work maybe doing some coring maybe drilling a well or 2.
There's another 20 000 or 30 000 acres on there right now we need to evaluate as soon as possible.
I think our guys are working on that capital budget right now.
There are other deals in the Eagle Ford.
There have been for the last 1.5 years.
There's some large players down there and there's a lot of littles and we're reviewing those.
So that's an area that we'll have a lot of focus on.
West Texas is an area I think I've mentioned before now we would love to be involved in a fairly large way.
I would say any deals we do in West Texas would include production.
We're not very good at just going out and buying acreage.
We want production to come with it and a way to evaluate what the locations how close they are et cetera.
So we're kind of conservative.
And so any acquisition out in West Texas would have significant production probably to go with it or a real reason to be able to evaluate some of the locations as PUDs.
Up in the Marcellus we're looking at the dry gas windows up there.
There are several deals for sale.
That would be the area of focus.
We're looking at maybe doing some trades with some of the other operators up there.
What we -- unfortunately for us we have a lot of acreage but we don't have 100 000 acres together.
We have a lot of plays up there where we have 15 20 locations to drill and then we're kind of done in the area.
And that's one of the difficulties up there.
And so we're working on some trades with some of the larger companies where they have 10 000 or 15 000 acres in the same neighborhood.
And it looks like we're going to be successful because we have some acreage that fits them.
So those are kind of the 4 areas 2 of them big gassy areas Haynesville and the Marcellus.
And 2 of them would be oil areas one of them we're underway the other one we're looking which would be the Eagle Ford and West Texas.
Wolfcamp and Cline is really the emphasis and probably more towards the Permian Basin than the Delaware.
So Brian one more point.
I think the reason we like this KKR deal is we have to constantly fight the decline curve right? So in terms of production.
If we don't -- if we're not busy in acquisition space and we're just standing still we've got a declining asset base.
So the beauty of the KKR deal is it gives us some access to trying to flatten out and/or get that decline curve offset so that we can have growing cash flow for the company.
And so I don't know if I have -- your question was do we have a magic target where we would just stop acquisitions? I think Doug's answer is probably not.
We're kind of going to constantly be in the evaluation business of how to keep that decline curve either at least flat if not increasing over time -- production curve at least increasing over time.
And I think the KKR deal gives us -- starting in a year we have 16 quarters of acquisitions without having to go to data room.
So that's the advantage to us.
And I think again the concept we've been working on for almost 2 years with the KKR people it totally aligns us.
We're incentivized to keep the costs down.
We're incentivized as they are to maximize production and maximize cash flow.
So I think it's a really good deal with a really good group that everybody's interests are 100% aligned.
Research Division</strong> And then just a point of clarification on the Eagle Ford joint development agreement here.
I think on Slide 7 you said there's a 70% working interest in the Eagle Ford properties.
Does that mean that when a well gets drilled that EXCO will have a 35% interest or a lower interest and then you'd have to then in a year from then sell or buy the rest of it from KKR if you so choose? It's actually lower than that.
The 70% working interest is us and KKR together.
The rest of it is CNOOC.
So we have a quarter of the 70% whatever that is like 18%? I'm not good at math.
So roughly 18% of the working interest and then a year from now we would have the ability to buy out the rest and get us up close to the 70%.
That's the whole idea.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of clarify something on the Eagle Ford JV terms here with KKR.
I guess I've seen a little bit of conflicting language in your kind of prior press releases and versus what I saw today.
Leo Leo that's wrong but keep going.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Let me see if I can explain a little bit better.
Is the repurchase of the KKR interest in the Eagle Ford mandatory or optional for EXCO? Well it's -- there's a formula.
We want to buy it.
We will give them a bid.
And under 90% of the circumstances as long as the sun keeps coming up in the east and prices haven't gone to 0 it will be -- they could turn it down.
Leo be -- let's be really clear here.
We have an obligation to make an offer.
KKR then has to -- anyway it has a decision to make on whether to accept or decline that offer and some of it is based on the level of return that we've negotiated.
That's as clear as it can be.
And I'd say it's a function of -- more a function of oil price.
If it were to go to $50 in 6 months they have -- or 12 months they have the ability to hold it and then sell it at a future date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean basically is your offer price I think you implied this earlier would be PV-10 on the remaining production on the wells at strip pricing? Is that right? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean you pretty much know what the offer price is ahead of time.
So like you said if oil is in the toilet they'd probably say no and keep it? Exactly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay well that's clear here for sure.
So -- and you kind of talked about 16 quarters of payments.
Am I totally crazy in my math or am I thinking somewhere around $70 million a quarter on that? Is that reasonable? Well it depends on oil price and I would say that's reasonable.
But if it's 30 wells it's probably closer to $100 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
All right.
And I guess in terms of the CapEx number you guys stated for next year.
Doug obviously your budget's not done and you talked about $300 million.
Clearly you're ramping up pretty hard in Eagle Ford here.
If I just looked at your fourth quarter CapEx call it $110 million roughly and sort of multiplied that 4 by 4 that'd give me about $450 million for the year.
Are you saying that you're going to ramp down gas drilling pretty aggressively next year and just drill the Eagle Ford in 2014? No.
I think in each one of the areas we have to look at our working interest and do we want to put it into a KKR-type joint venture.
I think what we've been doing is we've been running -- we've been looking at 3-rig program for BG.
They want their capital program ahead of time.
We've been working on that for them.
But if we end up putting our drilling in the Haynesville into a KKR-type structure that would be half of that.
So we're looking at both of them right now.
KKR and other people have indicated an interest in doing the same type of joint venture.
So we're working on it.
When I pitch out $300 million or $400 million that's kind of where we are as of 2 days ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
But that -- I guess that presupposes the Haynesville is in the JV for...
No no no.
Well keep in mind in the Eagle Ford 30 wells a quarter times 18% times $7.2 million is only $125 million $130 million for next year.
So there's plenty of room for Haynesville and Marcellus and potentially West Texas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And any update on what you guys are planning in West Texas? I mean you mentioned having some acreage outside the partnership you're testing.
You said emphasis in the Midland basin.
You mentioned Wolfcamp Cline.
Can you give us any more color on that? No thanks.
We have a joint venture.
We're working on it and we're not going to say where we are because we may be looking on doing some more leasing.
We shouldn't have said what we said.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess in the Haynesville just to clarify I want to see if I heard this correctly in prepared comments.
But the acquisition you did from Chesapeake the current production there is now 80 million a day? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And when you guys announced it it was somewhere around 114 million and I guess pretty steep decline.
What kind of declines are you expecting on that going forward? Just like what we've experienced with the restricted choke program.
The early declines are 67% 70% and it bounces out over time.
So nothing new there.
That's just technical performance.
That's kind of the way they are.
And after 5 6 years Marcia says that decline will go down and we're witnessing that.
And there may be some work-over work that we can be doing on some of that existing production or maybe some cleanouts that we can do.
So our guys are evaluating that right now.
That's the problem with shales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes now understood.
And I guess in the Marcellus it sounds like you've kind of moderated activity for the rest of the year.
I know you talked about blocking up trading some acreage and be getting some other stuff.
I mean would you think that there's a decent chance that you guys start increasing activity on that next year? How should we think about Marcellus going forward? Yes.
I think the idea is to get all those people down here everybody work together let's make sure that we become a really good operator up there.
I think first few meetings I've been in the intent is there and our drilling costs have come down significantly.
And there's no hurry.
I think right now our -- if we have a weakness it is that we don't have enough blocked up acreage and we're working on that.
And I'm not saying 10 000 acres and -- good enough for a company our size to go drill 20 or 30 wells but there's no hurry with gas prices where they are.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Leight with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Leo and others have covered a lot but just a couple of questions on the KKR agreement.
I guess one question was in terms of the capital to fund the buyback or the buy-in to the wells that would significantly increase your program.
What are your thoughts there on how that gets funded? Well number one we're going to be paying down debt.
And number two it looks like everything will fit under a revolver-type deal because it's all PDP.
We've talked to the banks and shown them forecasts.
It looks like it will be available under revolver.
If it takes extra we have a board and that we've worked with on a lot of deals that have a lot of deep pockets and many of them have indicated an interest in putting up more money whether it's debt or equity.
We kind of have that in our hip pocket.
So I don't foresee any issues and I -- and we're definitely not going to stress the balance sheet.
If we need equity we have quite a bit of it in our hip pocket that we can privately source.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you wouldn't be thinking about some creative financing for...
Well we might.
If you have an idea we're open.
But I'd say right now it's straight down the middle of the fairway-type stuff.
On $100-million-type acquisition we would expect at least 50% of that and maybe as much as 60% with hedges to be available under a revolver.
So we should have plenty of capacity and room as we go forward.
But if you come up with something unique Adam get your rump in here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just who's going to do the evaluation is it your engineers or somebody else? Well we -- both.
We'll do them they'll do them and we have Netherland Sewell that will sprinkle holy water on it.
So no it is -- Marcia literally spent a month kind of going over how the evaluation because they wanted to evaluate it as high.
We just wanted to evaluate it right because we have to book it as a public company.
And that all has been talked about in unbelievable detail.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you didn't talk at all about TGGT.
I don't know if you can.
Is this -- are you still looking hoping for a sale of your entire interest or is it looking more like you keep something like well rights because BG have -- on your...
We're doing this together with BG.
We're down to 3 people.
We're working on an MOU as we speak.
And it could -- it probably would be 100% but there's a possibility that we might keep an interest depending on who the buyer is.
I mean we're active over there.
And the Harbinger joint venture is going to continue to buy Cotton Valley and we're going to continue to develop Haynesville and Bossier.
And that's a critical asset to both of those.
And so one of the -- 2 of the groups that we're talking to have gathering systems and gas plants in the neighborhood so it fits like a glove.
So we're just kind of wading through it and we're doing it together with BG.
If we sell they sell.
If they sell we'll sell.
And if we hold a small interest or an option or whatever we'll split it 50-50.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess finally for Mark.
The guidance table does that assume no pref right exercise by BG or is that included in there? I believe it's not assumed but I will confirm that for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Geoghegan with Nexus.
I'm a little confused so maybe I could just rewind a little bit.
On the first press release on July 31 the deal was I guess described as you guys have the right to purchase and now the legal disclosure language has changed to required to purchase.
What I'm confused on is as you guys said the purchase price seems clearly preset based upon a formula that KKR obviously liked in the purchase agreement and it seems that they would clearly hit your required offer.
So when you guys account for this is this actually a JV? Because it seems like just a structured financing deal worth around $1.5 billion of future debt.
No no no.
I think you read it wrong.
It's not a set prescribed.
The number will be determined 12 months later based on whatever oil prices and gas prices are.
Does that mean you guys are essentially short oil? If the oil goes up then you guys have to make a higher purchase price? No.
We're not short against the drilling.
We're short against the PDP that we already have.
We will not be hedging that because -- at the time -- unless we want to.
But at the time we'll be using the forward strip every quarter and the purchase price will be determined at that time.
I see.
So essentially like you drill a well and you spend some money and then the value of the reserves are what they are.
So if oil goes to say $110 the well is worth more so you have to pay more.
That makes sense to me.
What I'm trying to understand is is this accounted for as like off-balance-sheet debt like have the rating agencies opined on it or is this like a JV? This is a JV purely a JV.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess yet another question on this participation agreement.
So I understand you have the 25% of the well already so -- but I understand when MLPs buy more PDP reserves.
But could you review again what is the appealing aspect of a exploration company/development company to be involved in this? I mean the MLPs do it but they throw off a lot of cash ends up back in our pocket.
I'm just trying to understand what the appeal here is for you and what sort of juice you have what's the angle of additional upside after you make a fully engineered PV-10 purchase.
Subash let me explain something.
What we're trying to do around here is create PDPs.
That's how you pay off debt.
You don't pay it off by buying a bunch of acreage.
So over the next 5 years we're going to have a partner who is totally aligned with us drilling wells and we're going to create a lot of PDP and -- which creates a lot of EBITDA which creates the ability to pay down debt and/or create additional dividends.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But in order to -- so I understand with the PDPs this will be fully funded probably by the bank line.
They'll go in fund this acquisition in all likelihood.
But how do you pay the debt down? I mean it sounds like there's a net -- big net at cash outflow here which are the PDP requirements.
Subash as usual you don't know what you're talking about.
I mean we think if we have enough of these in drilling deals that about somewhere between 25% and 50% of the EBITDA we'll be paying down debt every year.
Research Division</strong> And is that on a net cash basis? I mean you're buying a lot of this stuff.
Yes but there's going to be a lot of EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Well I understand.
But on a net basis are you...
On a net basis there's still a lot of EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you have to sell these ultimately to sell the entire PDP to pay the debt down or it's just a cash flow repayment? The cash flow will repay the debt and there's -- that's the way it's going to work.
Actually debt will be going down over this time.
Research Division</strong> Including the PDP purchases? Yes sir.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hoffman with -- a personal investor.
Just wondering whether there's any more discussions -- some time ago there was a discussion about a going private transaction.
Is there any more discussion on that? And obviously you've talked a lot about KKR and a lot of money there.
Have there been any discussions with them with regards to something to that effect? I'm going to say no but I think about it every day.
I'd much rather be private than public.
But as of now there is no discussions going on about being private.
It would just -- it would be a lot easier.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on -- just a comment on the kind of work -- the creation of PDPs and not to beat a bit of a dead horse though.
But I mean it seems like from the 25% of the well that you will own from the very beginning that is basically just a normal course value creation if the Eagle Ford has the economics you think it does or better.
But you would be buying -- just to confirm you would be buying at full price fair market value any of the additional PDPs of the 75% remainder.
Is that correct? Yes.
But probably the way it's set up is it's after the first year decline.
So a 500 000-barrel well that produces 100 000 barrels in the first year we'd be buying the 400 000 on a slightly different decline rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you would pay full price for 400 000 barrels.
And instead of having a 70% decline on that you would be moderating your decline rate because you'd only have a -- you'd have a much lower decline? Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the incremental cash would just be -- assuming the commodity price stay and the cost structure stays at what you expect at the time of the acquisition the PDP would just be the present value of whatever that IRR is? Exactly.
Just to give a little more color Brian.
On these shales and particularly in the oil is we've done some rough estimates and the decline in the second year is about half of what the decline is in the first year.
And whether it's gas or oil these things have ultra-long lives.
And so basically we'd be buying assets that we already operate.
So from a G&amp;A standpoint from everything else it's very efficient.
From a people standpoint it was way more efficient for us to buy the Haynesville assets than the Eagle Ford assets.
But we're looking for a new area and so we're going to be putting the teams -- the team's already together.
But going forward as we make those acquisitions on those 16 partnerships they're going to be very efficient for EXCO from an acquisition standpoint.
Just one more tidbit of color I'll add.
In the first year or so we make roughly 20% of the EUR production-wise.
So you have roughly 80% left over the remainder of life of the well.
Your next question comes from the line of William Adams with FAMCO.
Inc.</strong> Can you give us what your thoughts are on how much leverage you're targeting to over time let's say debt-to-EBITDA? Well my idea is getting to 2:1.
We're obviously going to be slightly higher than that but I think we'll be -- by middle of next year I think we'll be in the 3:1 range and I would love to get to 2:1.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then is -- what's been the response on -- from the rating agencies on these deals? I think okay good.
What do you -- Mark you were on the...
Yes.
I mean relatively neutral.
I mean they're doing their work on -- we're working on this term loan.
So they're doing a little bit of work on that.
We've just given them all the models.
But generally they've been fine.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
Yes.
Most of my questions are answered.
But where are you as far as like this total recalibration of EXCO? It seems like -- obviously since we've talked in the last 1.5 year or so you've now accomplished a lot and have a lot of these joint venture deals.
Is this about it at least for the next say 12 months? Are we just going to kind of wait and let things simmer? No.
We're working on deals as -- we're working on more deals as we speak.
All right.
But is that -- any type of cause for a concern just given like you said leverage or -- what are your thoughts there? We look at each deal.
I'd say if we were to do a deal next week we -- A we wouldn't just because we want to get the TGGT behind us.
We want to get a little more knowledge out in the Eagle Ford before we close another deal there.
But West Texas additional Haynesville or additional Marcellus we're working on as we speak.
And again we'll finance it right.
I'd say if we did a deal quickly it would have to entail bonds or equity and we have those privately in our hip pocket.
All right.
And at this point too are you looking at more oil assets the conventional side or liquids or what are your thoughts? Where are you seeing the most activities and what looks the most compelling right now? Well I would say we're very focused in certain areas.
We see a lot of deals.
I would say there's still $30 billion to $40 billion of deals out there.
90% of them we're not interested in.
If they fit in our target areas we're going to look at them evaluate them properly and decide if we have the financing available to do them including potential joint ventures.
KKR is a great partner and brought a lot to the table as far as the Eagle Ford but we have been approached by 15 20 people if we found an acquisition to partner up.
We're hoping not to but that money is totally available.
No further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to our presenters.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
I hope we were able to answer everything.
I think -- what I'm hoping is we will get all the data cleaned up the company's 22 wells that we're working on completing get everything reshuffled.
And sometime in October we're going to target having an analyst day here which would give you a little more clarity and hopefully a lot of detail around a lot of the vagueness that -- and I hope we weren't totally vague.
But the joint venture is -- with KKR is significant.
It's something that we've been working on with them for a long time.
I think by October we'll have a lot better idea on production.
We may have something on -- something that's going on in West Texas by then.
And so we'll invite everybody that wants to come and we'll give you everything we have at that time.
With that I appreciate everybody being on and I hope we did a decent job on this.
The quarter was fine.
But I would say starting in the third quarter and the fourth quarter you should see some significant increases in both production and cash flow and EBITDA.
Thanks again.
Meeting adjourned.
Today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.