Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Mulhern Executive Vice President and CFO you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today in Dallas is Doug Miller our Chairman and CEO; Hal Hickey our President Chief Operating Officer will be doing most of the talking and answering the questions.
There's another slew of people here that support the -- this process in the conference room in Dallas with us today.
I'd like to just start for 2 minutes to give you and call attention to our earnings slides that were posted on our Investor Relations website so those should have gotten posted last evening.
On Page 22 and 23 is our forward-looking statement information.
We will be making forward-looking statements on this call.
You should consider that language on Page 22 and 23 those earnings slides when you consider that information.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Doug and let him start with the introduction and make his comments.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter conference call.
Hal and Mark will be talking about operations and financials here.
Let me start with -- on Slide 3.
We did have adjusted EBITDA of $108 million which was growth.
Not as much as we had before.
Our guide -- we did guide slightly higher with the close of the Chesapeake transaction.
We have had some issues with that.
We'll get into it.
I think everything's starting to smooth out.
But operationally I'd say our guys -- we now have taken over.
We've completed and got on production some of the transition wells that we inherited maybe 20 or 22 of them.
We have started our 4-rig program and the joint venture with KKR and it seems to be going smoothly.
So we'll get into that in a minute.
Let me just talk about the year and the quarter.
We did do -- we did close the $700 million deal on the Eagle Ford with Chesapeake which included about $400 million of PDP type assets.
And the production has been a little lumpy there.
We were expecting to take over about 5 000 barrels a day and after completions be up closer to 7 -- net to us 7 000 barrels.
The quarter did not have all that in it.
We ran into a pipeline issue.
These things make a little bit of gas and it has periodic shut-ins and shutting-in a well that's making 500 barrels a day and 100 Mcf means that we have -- we're looking for the 500 barrels.
So that pipeline issue which was supposedly going to be done October 1 was not done when we took over the properties.
We have had weekly meetings with the pipeline company.
We are helping them.
They're working on it.
All the right of ways have been brought.
The construction is underway.
And it's anticipated to be complete in the middle of December so -- or early.
And so in the middle of all that we had 14 inches of rain over the weekend which slowed it down a little more.
But what I'm saying is we're going to have a little bit of lumpiness.
And I think we're going to lift the fog completely by the end of the year.
We're going to have an Analyst Day December 10.
We've been talking about this for a little while but it's on the schedule.
It's in here.
And hopefully by then there's a lot of questions that you guys have on production and Hal will get into it including our Wolfcamp property out in West Texas.
By then we should have some good results and be able to do some monitoring.
The other asset we bought and we were quite surprised when BG did not we bought roughly $300 million worth the 70% PDP of Haynesville -- 70% operating production.
We expected BG to take their half-interest which they have the right to.
At the last minute they didn't take it which didn't harm us actually.
We thought it was actually to our benefit that they didn't take it.
Coupled with that we have 11 undrilled sections there.
Hal will get in to that.
We plan on begin drilling that.
Mike's in charge at getting 3 rigs for December 1 and I think you got 2 of them already is that right? Yes? Okay.
We have some transition challenges.
Again we bought $1 billion worth of properties from Chesapeake which is a pretty good challenge to start with.
And so we had a lot of land issues environmental issues.
And we're still having the conversion over from the accounting and the land and -- but -- and it's going.
I'd say it's moving forward.
Marketing is also an issue.
There's no marketing -- the crude oil and working with our people again we have weekly meetings.
And it becomes kind of a challenge there.
And so I mean I think we're averaging 110 loads of oil a day and so we're kind of handling that.
And so that's all working its way through.
Again I think both of those will get settled by the end of the year.
And we'll keep everybody posted on that.
So a little bit disappointing on the EBITDA but there are some reasons which we did not anticipate and that's the bumpiness.
Yesterday our net oil production was running at 7 000 barrels a day and I think for the quarter we averaged right at 5 000 barrels.
So -- now that doesn't mean it's going to be 7 000 barrels tomorrow because there's still some lumpiness in that.
We did sell or we announced the signing of purchase agreement with TGGT.
It took us a couple years longer than anticipated.
We did have to have BG sign off on it and it changed quite a bit -- quite a few times during this.
We did sell it to Azure.
We worked with them quite well.
They're a local outfit that we know very well.
They have all their financing in place and their equity in place.
And because we do not have to get a hard stock [ph] we were kind of anticipating this maybe in December.
But I think now we have 30 people here working on it there's a possibility of a mid to late November closing isn't that right Mark? Right.
Yes.
Again our guys have been doing a spectacular job in the Haynesville.
From an operating -- from a drilling cost we continue to bring that down.
It's almost shocking where we are compared to the other operators.
We do participate with 3 or 4 other operators in the neighborhood.
And our guys are outperforming them in days drilling costs everything else.
So we're making some good rates of return in our core area even at current gas prices.
Very very few areas where we are drilling can we make a decent rate of return in gas and the core area in the Haynesville is one of them.
We have had very little to no oil.
This -- we had 0 2 months ago.
We're now at 7 000 barrels a day.
It's easy to grow pretty fast when you start from 0.
And we're showing you that.
And I would say with the KKR deal I kind of expect if we can take what our A-Team has been doing and they're on the job right now from a cost standpoint to the Eagle Ford the Eagle Ford area and the KKR deal are going to be spectacular events.
We've had some -- the first few wells.
And I told our board that early does not always make perfect.
But our first 3 or 4 wells that we've completed in the joint venture were 700 to 900 barrels a day.
And so looks good early but we have 300 more to go.
I think Mike and Harold and the whole team has transitioned down there.
They've had to hire some people.
We have construction going on.
We're now looking at a potential oil pipeline gathering system that we have 10 people in bidding on.
So we're trying to make it easier instead of tougher and those guys are working on that.
And again we'll have some answers by the end of the year.
KKR I think is a fairly complex deal.
We try to explain it.
We've actually put calls in to most of the analysts that had questions.
And if anybody has any questions feel free to call and we'll continue to answer them.
I think the one thing most people are missing and I'll have it on the next slide is that it seems like they have a high rate of return.
They're capped on the return at 1.2x their drilling costs so we have and Harold and his boys have an incentive to cut the capital costs.
I think the other thing that people are missing is the cash flow that they get out of their 75% is a credit towards the purchase price.
So when you put all that in there we have the ability to be buying these assets.
Now the major uplift in value to EXCO and our shareholders begins in month 15.
So we have -- these are set up in quarterly partnerships.
The first one we acquire 15 months after we started drilling.
And so our EBITDA our significant EBITDA growth starts in month 15 from the first one and we'll have 16 straight quarters of fairly significant EBITDA growth.
And so 14 we're not going to have much from it other than the 25%.
But starting in 15 16 17 and 18 we're going to have significant EBITDA growth.
And maybe $100 million plus a year.
And so again we'll have that identified and focused on at the December call.
Managing capital spending.
We started this a couple of years ago.
We've transitioned from 22 rigs in the Haynesville to 3 rigs.
Hal will get into that.
We kind of expect here at year end and beginning of '14 to start increasing that slowly.
But one of my challenges and Mark's challenges is we're trying to increase production.
We're trying to increase EBITDA and at the same time we're trying to decrease debt.
So put -- sometimes you can do 2 out of 3 of those but doing 3 out of 3 of those is fairly complex and it's something we're working on.
Efficient low cost operator.
I think we've talked about that.
I would say in the Haynesville there's probably 10 operators or 5 major operators there.
We're in discussions with all of them.
And I would say our guys have outperformed and beaten all of them significantly.
KKR on Slide 5.
It looks -- the key points.
The short-term benefit is we can put a 300 well $7.2 million per well development program on a company that probably is not sized to do that.
But with this joint venture that by the way we've been working on a couple of years we're able to do a $700 million acquisition detail it focus on 40 000 or 50 000 acres and we've started on at a 300-well drilling program.
And this allows us to accelerate that and starting in a year you're going to start seeing the real benefit to EXCO which is significant EBITDA growth.
Again I think a lot of people didn't understand the KKR deal.
They're capped on their rate of return.
Now it seems high because its 1.2x their invested capital.
And they get it back in 12 months.
So it does seem high.
But keep in mind they get 75% of the cash flow the first year.
That 75% of the cash flow gets credited towards our acquisition.
So what it enables us to do hopefully if we do this right we'll actually be buying properties starting in month 15 for the next 5 years at a discount to PV-10.
So now we do have -- we have some accounting issues we're going to have to deal with that I just learned about yesterday.
But we call that a quality problem.
With that we actually are looking at additional deals with KKR in some additional fields.
Now we've got -- have to really believe that we're not going to do this everywhere.
I would say we really have to believe that we have the assets nailed.
It's a development program.
It is significant.
And our guys have to really believe that we can get in there and cut costs because that's significant.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Hal.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
At EXCO thanks to our employees and contractors across the company we've had another strong operational quarter.
As Doug was discussing I want to build on we continued to execute our company strategy as we've effectively run our base business closed acquisitions in both core and new shale areas announced the sale of our midstream business and planned for future growth through our drilling partnership with KKR.
On Slide 7 you could see an overview of our operations.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see our key areas located in Texas Louisiana Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
We had 6 operated drilling rigs across the portfolio at the end of the third quarter but we could have 15 or more rigs working for us in '14.
In the Haynesville/Bossier area we acquired 11 new sections with development drilling locations from Chesapeake and our core DeSoto Parish Louisiana area.
We plan to begin drilling this new acreage late this year or early next year and we plan to continue our manufacturing-type of development both on this new acreage and on our legacy Haynesville acreage likely with a 6 rig drilling fleet in DeSoto Parish where we currently have some 40 fully developed units.
Now with the acquisition we have 40 more units that we can develop in this core area that we designate as the heart of the Haynesville play.
We also plan to have a rig to operate in the Shelby area of East Texas next year and pending results we could possibly add more drilling in the Haynesville region.
Finally regarding our Haynesville efforts I should note that we continue to see our average cost per Haynesville drilling and completion going down.
Our average cost for the quarter came in at $7.5 million per well and we've actually seen some recent oil [ph] cost even lower than that average.
Again compliments are due our team as we become more efficient with drilling.
We've continued to optimize in our completion designs and we work with our service providers to manage costs.
In our newly acquired Eagle Ford area of South Texas we've transitioned operations from Chesapeake to EXCO.
And we're transferring our experience and learnings from the Haynesville in implementing the manufacturing top development program down in the Eagle Ford with 4 or 5 rigs.
We have 4 rigs drilling on our acreage today.
We believe we can generate some additional efficiency and drilling completion by moving to this manufacturing mode where we simultaneously develop multiple wells in a unit.
This development program will be done in conjunction with our working interest partners in KKR which will fund 75% of our acquired interest for drilling and completion costs through the drilling partnership.
And together we anticipate drilling approximately 300 locations over the next several years in the core area of this acquisition.
In Appalachia we're focused on evaluating and optimizing our Marcellus shale acreage.
Our land team in particular is actively looking at trade opportunities to build continuous acreage positions.
We've recently drilled and completed an appraisal well in Appalachia in Lycoming County Pennsylvania where we've been operating and we're very encouraged about the results in this specific area.
And in all of our Marcellus acreage we have about 2/3 of it held by production.
Our technical staff that's working with land is evaluating the remaining acreage to determine what we will be doing to either renew hold by drilling or release acreage either by trade sales or simply letting certain leases expire.
We acquired some acreage late last year in the Permian area just south of our Sugg Ranch position in Irion County and we partnered with an experienced Permian player to evaluate this roughly 20 000 contiguous acreage position.
We're currently drilling completing and flowing back some wells here in the Wolfcamp shale and we've seen some encouraging preliminary results.
But we'll have a much better understanding and we'll elaborate on this opportunity at our December Analyst Day.
Then in East Texas/North Louisiana and Permian conventional assets we've put them in a partnership with EXCO and Harbinger Group.
We currently have 1 rig drilling in this acreage particularly at Sugg Ranch in Irion County and we're seeing some additional conventional asset acquisitions to acquire and grow this business.
Finally on this slide I want to reiterate that we have in conjunction with BG signed a purchase and sale agreement to sell our TGGT Midstream business.
this transaction is likely to close in the next couple of weeks.
Now moving over to Slide 8.
We've provided an overview of our Eagle Ford acquisition assets and plans.
The deal closed in July and the transaction contains acreage across 4 counties in South Texas.
But our core development area is particularly in Zavala County.
This is where we've entered the drilling partnership with KKR and we're going to develop to 300 or so locations that are noted earlier over the next few years.
We acquired about 55 000 net acres and about 21 000 of those are in the core development area.
The other acreage besides the 21 000 core associated with currently producing PDP wells and are held by production.
But we have farm out option on nearly 150 000 additional net acres.
As I previously noted we plan to operate up to 5 rigs in the area with the focus of course being on the 21 000 acre core area.
Net sales at the end of the third quarter totaled about 7 600 BOE per day.
This included about 6 800 or so barrels of oil.
Now we've typically produce about 85% oil and about 15% natural gas.
Our early results in the core area are exciting.
We've seen our piece as high as more 900 barrels of oil a day and we've averaged about 600 barrels of oil per day in the core.
These wells are on average about 6 500 feet total vertical depth and has lateral lengths of about 7 100 feet.
We're completing these wells to 20 or more frac stages but our longest lateral drill to date is about 9 700 feet.
Our activity in the core area is of course being carried out in conjunction with both KKR and our other significant work interest partners CNOOC which typically holds about a 30% or so of nonoperating working interest in our assets.
Now the challenge we've encountered in the area is the ability to move the natural gas production associated with the oil and we're working closely with our midstream service providers to ease this gas restriction.
We anticipate the problem will be resolved as we have the new take away line that Doug talked about earlier.
It's going to be in service in December or sooner and we have some additional compression that should be installed by February.
Moving over to Slide 9.
We have an overview of our Haynesville area and our acquisition from Chesapeake that closed in mid July.
This acquisition acreage depicted in red is immediately south and of course contiguous with our core Holly-Haynesville acreage in DeSoto Parish.
We acquired incremental working interest of about 22% on 5 600 net acres from Chesapeake and about 170 wells that EXCO already operated.
And we acquired a 62% working interest on about 4 000 net acres in these 11 sections that were formerly operated by Chesapeake and that we've planned to develop.
Now on these 11 sections we've added about 55 total drilling locations and they're all held by production as Chesapeake had drilled a unit well there.
We also acquired additional working interest in 75 future EXCO operated drill locations and at quarter's end our net production from the overall Haynesville is about 315 million cubic feet a day.
With that I'll now turn the discussion over to our CFO Mark Mulhern who will take us through details regarding our transactions and performance and guidance.
Thank you Hal.
I'm going to start on Slide 11 where we have summarized the results for the quarter.
Our comparisons to the prior year are challenging because of the conventional assets that were contributed to the Harbinger partnership in February and the Chesapeake acquisitions that closed in July.
Our production group from the second quarter due to primarily to our new assets in the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville.
But we're always fighting decline curves and separating the conventional assets which had flatter decline curves into the partnership has exacerbated these comparisons.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $108 million which was 20% higher than our Q2 but was approximately $10 million below our adjusted EBITDA guidance for the quarter.
So I'm going to turn to Slide 12 where we have summarized the primary reasons for the EBITDA being below guidance.
The first one is prices in the Marcellus.
So in the Marcellus area where we operate there's a glut of production and lower demand that resulted in lower-than-expected prices and some shut-in activity which impacted volumes as well.
Secondly the timing of wells in the Haynesville.
So we had in our original guidance forecast and expectation that we may have some wells turned to sales earlier than they actually did in Haynesville.
So in my mind this is a timing issue that just impacted the quarter.
And then the third item is we were a little optimistic in how quickly we would assimilate our Eagle Ford assets in particular.
And as has been mentioned we experienced some unanticipated challenges and take away gas which resulted in shut-ins and uneven oil production for the quarter here.
So as Hal said we believe this would be fully resolved going into 2014.
We continue to focus on cost reductions and I think we've done an excellent job in the Haynesville.
And again our core thesis is that we're able to replicate the manufacturing mode and the efficiencies we've been able to realize in the Haynesville and to the Eagle Ford assets that we've acquired.
If you turn to Slide 13 you'll know this was a lengthy process but we are quite pleased to have executed this agreement with Azure Midstream to sell our TGGT Midstream assets.
We expect to net approximately $230 million when the deal closes sometime in November which we will expect to use to pay down the debt on the asset sale tranche that we incurred to finance the acquisitions from Chesapeake.
Completion of this asset sale and the proceeds that we received from KKR and the Eagle Ford effectively allowed EXCO to make $1 billion of acquisitions without having to issue equity.
So this was an important piece of that puzzle.
So we will retain a minority equity interest in the new company and are very comfortable with Azure's strong operating capabilities.
We did record an accounting impairment related to the sale in this quarter.
So that's behind us going into the closing.
But overall this sale helps reposition EXCO as a more pure play E&amp;P company and helps simplify our corporate structure and reduce costs over the long term.
So then I'm going to turn to Slide 14 which summarizes our liquidity position at September 30.
Obviously the changes from June 30 are significant because this reflects the billion dollars of acquisition that were financed at closing primarily with debt.
Again we would expect the proceeds from TGGT to be applied against the asset sale tranche and the overall debt levels to be reduced by those proceeds.
Our liquidity is adequate and we continue to have excellent support from our bank group.
If you turn to Slide 15 it's the outline of our guidance.
And historically we provide a lot of detail on our guidance.
No different here on Slide 15.
We've updated our guidance for current prices and for our current expectations.
We are expecting about a 12% increase in adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter to a level of midpoint of $121 million that we've shown here on this slide which puts us at a full year midpoint of about $415 million.
So say a range of $410 million to $420 million which is obviously lower than our last update.
We've come out with a 450 number surely after BG made their election.
And again I would say mainly due to less optimism about how quickly we're able to integrate and get the Eagle Ford assets in particular running the way we expect them to and contributing to EBITDA.
And then I would say the second item is the unanticipated challenges that we've had in the Marcellus impact what we say about our guidance going into the fourth quarter.
I think it's important for you to review Pages 22 and 23 of our earnings press release which provide the pro forma results for the quarter and the 9 month period as if had have owned the Chesapeake assets for the entire period.
So if you consider the prospects of the company going forward for EBITDA growth you could -- I believe those schedules are instructive to how we should think about that.
So just point that out for your information.
Which slide number? They are Slide 22 and 23 at our earnings press release.
They're not slides in this deck.
They're in the press release that we issued for earnings on Page 22 and 23.
They're the required pro forma supplemental information with our financial statements.
So I think those are important schedules for you to pay attention to when you're looking forward for the EBITDA of the company.
So on Slide 16 before we conclude and start to take questions here let me just say we are executing the strategy that we clearly laid out at the beginning of the year.
So we've closed on billion dollars of acquisitions.
We entered into this drilling partnership with KKR to help us exploit our Eagle Ford properties.
And we believe we have repositioned the company and established a clear growth pipeline of quarterly accretive acquisitions beginning in the first quarter of 2015 as Doug outlined.
So finally we will host an analyst meeting in Dallas on December 10.
We will get those invitations out to you early next week.
But please join us as we outline in greater detail our plans for 2014.
And then just before I turn it over for -- to Doug for questions Doug mentioned that we have some additional explanatory slides on the KKR partnership and they are on pages 19 through 21 in the appendix of the earnings slides that I'm referring to.
So if you look on our website Pages 19 through 21 we've given you 3 slides on very detailed explanation of how we think the KKR agreement works and what we anticipate both on a single well basis and on a full program of 300 wells drilled over the next 3 to 4 years.
So hopefully that will help you in evaluating that partnership.
But as Doug said again we are happy and prepared to walk you through that and explain it.
The IR team has reached out to all of the south side analysts who cover the company and try to walk them through the slides because again we know this is not run-of-the-mill stuff.
So we're prepared to absolutely explain in detail what we expect from that partnership.
So with that I'm going to turn it back to Doug and we'll start on the Q&amp;A.
Okay.
One of the things that Hal had mentioned that -- our production in the Haynesville is $315 million a day net.
But keep in mind we operate between our operated properties and our non-operated properties over there over $1 billion a day.
And we're managing that entire process from a marketing standpoint et cetera.
So it is a huge asset.
BG owns 50% of what we own.
So they have roughly $300 million $315 million a day.
And then we have other partners unit by unit which were Chesapeake at one time.
We bought them out of most of those.
But there are other partners in that.
So it is a significant asset with a lot of wells drilled.
We've drilled 400 and help me 20-ish? 420 wells over there over the last 4 years.
So that team has done a spectacular job.
We're hoping that the Eagle Ford becomes another core area where we did buy jointly with KKR 500 square miles of seismic.
We just got it in 2 weeks ago.
Our people are reviewing that right now.
And we think there may be some additional opportunities in and around that core area.
So now we haven't put anything in the data for that but we are probably going to be drilling a couple of wells just outside the core area.
And again we should -- we'll have that detail because I think we're drilling on about 3 of them is that right Mike? We have 4 operating in the quarter.
No I know but outside the core area I think we've agreed to drill 3.
Yes correct.
Yes.
And so we'll have results on those.
I think one of them is frac-ing as we speak and the other 2 are drilling and completing here over the next 2 to 3 weeks.
So again December 10 that will kind of tell us a lot.
And I think we'll have a lot of good data to share with you.
With that I'm going to open it up to questions.
And let her rip.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of comments you made in your remarks I want to follow-up on.
The first was just that the notion that growing production EBITDA and reducing debt is something that's tough.
We certainly see that across many companies in the sector.
But I wanted to just get a sense of where your prioritizations do lie on the margin and how you think about the balance between the acquisition spending as part of the KKR deal versus drilling and accelerating in places like the Haynesville and the Marcellus? I would say our #1 priority right now is reducing debt.
And I think if you look at the overall scheme if we have roughly a $500 million EBITDA for next year the KKR joint venture is allowing us to reduce our capital.
And if we were to reduce our capital down to $200 million to $300 million because KKR's putting -- or a KKR-like person is putting up 3 quarters of the CapEx that would allow us to reduce debt.
I think we're looking at that right now.
But as of right now our capital spend is close to our EBITDA for next year.
But we're looking into that.
And I'd say my first priority and for sure Mark's and he keeps beating me over the head is reduction of debt.
But we're also running a public company which we think increasing production and increasing EBITDA are very important.
We -- we work for our board and us in the board we have 24 000 shareholders out there.
Many of them communicate with us and many of them are not very happy right now.
And so going from 22 rigs to 3 rigs has been a challenge.
With these decline curves production goes down faster than you think.
Because we're talking about 80% 90% first year decline curves in the Haynesville.
So the only way you're going to increase production there is to keep increasing rigs.
So going from 22 to 3 was a significant challenge.
But I think again to complete your question I'd say first priority is reducing debt.
And then second and third and I think there's a possibility we can accomplish all with this KKR type joint venture is EBITDA growth and production growth.
So Bryan the only thing that I would add is -- I agree with Doug's priorities and I do believe that we will have -- be in a position to chip away a bit at the debt level.
But remember I think what's going to happen here we're hoping it happens here is that we actually grow the EBITDA of the company and the leverage metrics improve over time.
So just in terms of being realistic we're not going to have huge reductions in the overall debt balance of the company.
But I believe our metrics will improve as our EBITDA grows.
So that's how I think about it.
Any acquisition we make going forward from the KKR deal is going to be a -- PDP acquisition is 100% which fall into the first lien revolver-type category and there is a huge institutional market out there.
And so that would be the cheapest cost of capital going forward.
So we'll be choppy.
If we're not doing a joint venture in '14 our debt level should go down.
And then on a quarter-by-quarter basis it will go up a little but it will all be PDP and then it will come down and then it will be a jog.
And again December 10 we'll better outline that because we have built-in subject to oil staying above $70 a barrel we have built-in 16 quarterly acquisitions and we'll kind of show you that over the next 5 years how that stages.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know I think you would be 2015 where you'd really see more of the ramp-up in the PDP acquisition.
And so I guess that is probably sounds based on your comments it's fair to say that capital competes versus drilling capital with your goal of ultimately reducing debt.
And so the notion of a real ramp-up in places like the Haynesville is probably much less likely because you'd rather have this competition for acquisition capital in beginning of '15? That's true.
But nothing says we can't do a drilling joint venture depending on how many good asset -- good locations we have.
We have quite a few good locations.
We're looking at a few transactions with some smaller operators where we might get 50 or 100 more locations.
I think the idea there would be maybe it would be time to put a drilling joint venture there.
Because I think between engineering and our drilling people we can -- it's real -- pretty easy for Harold's group to tell me what the costs are going to be for the next 12 months.
We're getting AFEs in from other companies larger companies.
And we're having discussions.
I hate signing a $10.5 million AFE in an offset section which is an 8% rate of return when we can do it for $7.5 million $8 million which is the 32% rate of return.
So that's one of the main challenges we have right now.
Should we participate with other operators in the neighborhood? So I'm not going to mention any names but we have recently yelled at them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly you made a passing reference to some accounting issues that came up with I think it was with regards to the KKR side of things.
Can you add any color to that.
I'll let Mark talk to that.
Yes Brian.
We don't know exactly where we're landing here in this pipe premature to talk much about it.
But we've got -- there are system complexity around accounting for the KKR deal.
There is a premise that we will be effectively buying -- when you take the cash that they earn in the first year and gets credited against the buyout price there's a question about what you do with the difference between fair value and what your acquisition cost is.
But we'll get to that and I don't believe that's going to be an issue until 2015.
That would be a book and they're talking about might be talking about where we might have to show profits but mostly book value.
And keep in mind even if it was attacked then it's not cause we'd be buying them at x and that would be our tax basis.
We have in excess of $1.5 billion usable NOL here.
So from a cash tax standpoint we're a long way away from paying it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But there's a potential for the NOLs to be in flux here as a result of the...
Yes we owe Pierre starting in '15 '16 '17 if our EBITDA goes up that's going to create quite a few profits.
And cause it's acquisition it won't be drilling.
So we won't have intangibles a significant amount of intangibles starting in '15 '16.
So it'd be going right to the bottom line.
And we're prepared for that with the $1.5 billion of NOLs.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> You obviously made reference to continuing to look at acquisitions potentially other deals.
But KKR or KKR-like partner.
You also I think mentioned the potential partner for your existing Haynesville is kind of what it sounded like in the press release.
Could you maybe just provide some more color on what you guys are thinking about in terms of structures? Are we looking at very similar structures to the Eagle Ford deal with KKR? Because clearly incremental acquisitions would seem to add potentially some more capital costs of you guys and obviously you're focused on reducing debt.
I just wanted to see kind of how that's all sort of interplaying here? I would say the -- we have been approached by multiple people.
And they've come in here and as they understand the drilling partnerships are interested.
KKR would be our first choice because they have a team that our guys get along with that include controlling engineers operating people geologists geophysicists.
So it has been -- and we have been on 5 or 6 projects.
So you know this is the first one that we're prepared to nail down.
I would say that that one was fairly complex because there's a land part of it.
Anything that we do in the Haynesville probably our anticipation is -- would only be a drilling partnership without the land.
So the complexity of it would be significantly less.
And may be the rate of return would be even less just because: a it's a gas deal with an upward sloping curve; and b it's something that we really got our arms around a lot more.
And that's something that we're in discussions with.
Again 5 or 10 people have lined up and want to do that transaction.
They've been in we've had discussions with them.
KKR obviously signed up and they will be the first -- they get first shot.
And we have a couple of people that would like to participate with KKR and we've run it by KKR.
So that's a possibility.
From an acquisition standpoint you just won't believe how much money is out there whether it is -- industry partners have approached us.
Keep in mind we were approached right after our closing for somebody to buy 50% interest in both of those acquisitions and pay us the premium which we chose not to do.
But we have had discussions and we have recently had people from around the world in here wanting to do significant joint ventures and acquisitions.
So from a capital standpoint and I think what you're driving at is if there's other acquisitions out there which there are do we have the capital to be able to play in those type of acquisitions? The answer is right now no.
But with some of the money that's coming at us I think there's a possibility if we found the right deal in the right areas where we would be comfortable operating there is the availability of structure in some deals with -- and I'm not very good at speaking foreign languages but there's been a lot of foreigners in here both from China Japan.
Now we've got somebody coming in from India.
But South America's been in here.
There's a lot of people that are trying to get in the U.S.
shale plays.
And we're not going to look at every deal.
We've turned down 20 of them in the last month.
But I think what you're going to see is there's going to be here over the next 12 months quite a few opportunities in property sets that are not out loud on the market.
There's a lot of private equity guys that have backed smaller operators who would typically go out and buy 100 000 acres drill 3 wells and then flip them.
And EXCO and Chesapeake and Encana were lined up to buy them But now that those 3 guys are not buying we're seeing those things coming back to market.
So a lot of small deals.
We would look at the smaller deals and we've done a study in the Wolfcamp in Midwest Texas.
If we found something in the core of the Eagle Ford we would look I think we're getting our arms around the science there.
The Marcellus would be a challenge because I think our guys were forecasting a significant discount to Henry Hub up there for a while.
So making the math work up in the Marcellus is going to be a challenge for a while.
Thus you see us changing our rig schedule there.
And so it would have to be the perfect deal and we would have to have the ability not to drill for a while.
But we're seeing some deals and there are some fairly significant deals out there.
But who we team up with and how we structure the deal and I think Leo what you're getting at is we can't put up $500 million and the answer is true.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great answer there Doug.
And I guess just as a re-follow-up to that are you considering I mean it sounded like you turned down some deals potentially is it possible you would take on a partner on existing assets already to kind of help better manage sort of your debt load here? Is that a potential possibility? I don't think we're interested in the Haynesville.
I've taken on anybody.
We've got it -- we've got our arms around it.
The Eagle Ford we have a partner and we don't need one.
In West Texas depending on the deal I think we're happy where we are right now.
Depending on the results of these next 5 or 6 wells in the Wolfcamp we might entertain doing something there.
I'd say in the Marcellus if there was a dealer or 2 up there with what we kind of forecast over the next 2 to 3 years if the right joint venture or partner came along we'll be open to that.
Now keep in mind BG owns half.
Whether we would sell it take on a partner or just slow down I mean we're operating at $275 million a day up there today between the shallow and the Marcellus and our net is only $65 million a day.
It's an asset that we should know better.
We don't.
We know where some of the core areas are and we think we have identified a couple of them.
We don't own enough acreage in there to put together a large joint venture.
So I'd say the one area where we would anticipate the possibility of a partner is in the Marcellus.
Is that fair? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Good answer.
I guess just jumping over to your Haynesville joint plan.
Obviously you guys are ramping up rigs into the end of the year here.
You mentioned a Shelby rig sometime in 2014.
Just trying to get a sense of when that might show up? I mean you think you guys are on an average kind of 7 rigs for the year? Is it closer to 6? Just trying to get a sense on...
We're trying to wiggle an average 7 rigs for the full year Leo.
And depending on what the results are we'll manage up or down.
But right now our plan is that we've got 7 rigs 6 in DeSoto in the core area 3 on our legacy acreage 3 on the newly acquired from Chesapeake and yes we do have a full rig year schedule down in the Shelby Area where we are encouraged about the recent data and results.
I think we have participated in a few wells down there where we're happy and excited about some new data.
I've never seen Marcia smile quite so much.
And now it's a little deeper and it costs a little more money so I would say if we're able to do what we think we can it wouldn't surprise me that we wouldn't increase the rigs down there from 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 something like that.
There are some opportunities down there.
Some other operators have some acreage for sale.
And I think Marcia's group has kind of identified a core area down there.
Again it's deeper.
We would have to lean on Harold.
Those wells were costing us north to $10 million last time we drilled down there because of the extra 2 000 or 3 000 feet.
We would have to be assured that those would -- he could get those things down under $10 million.
So he told us he could but he also told us Texas Tech would win last week.
So we'll see what happens.
Doug we've also been able to restructure a lot of the units down there so we can drill a lot longer laterals.
That will probably be the...
Right.
I think in Texas because the unionization there versus the 640 squares a longer lateral with additional cost could be very fruitful.
And I would say one rig for sure potentially more.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Kind of need to go through the review about the markets.
When you think about 2014 how 6 rigs in the -- 7 rigs in the Haynesville what number of pads kind of what your spacing assumption kind of number of wells as you kind of start; I think about it as mowing the lawn across your acreage and develop each of the units? In the legacy acreage we're traditionally drilling on 80s.
We may go from 8 wells per section to 7.
And the acquisition acreage to Chesapeake looks more likely we'll drill an additional 5 oil wells besides the unit well that exists there now.
That would be a 6.
So that would be a total of 6 in that section so you're looking at like 110 or so.
And down in the Shelby Area it may be even more broadly spaced than that.
LLC</strong> And the long laterals? How long a lateral are you talking about down in Shelby? In excess of 7 000 feet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the same math for the 5 Eagle Ford rigs? Just kind of thinking about ...
Our spacing down in the Eagle Ford is...
500 feet apart spacing right now.
LLC</strong> 500 feet apart? Yes.
We've got some test to see if that's optimal so standby for news on that one.
But right now its traditionally been drilled on 500.
LLC</strong> And lateral lengths? Lateral lengths like I said earlier average about 7 100 feet.
But we have gone as far as 9 700-foot laterals.
Even our drilling since we've taken over.
But average is about 7 100 feet.
LLC</strong> Helpful.
And then kind of thinking about I think you hit the acquisition side other than the KKR acquisitions that are rolling anything else just as Eagle Ford and Haynesville are they the 2 areas that you think will be the most active? Are there any other regions that you're venturing into? Oklahoma or anything like that? Not Oklahoma.
But we're passing those on to other guys.
I would say pending the results out there in the Wolfcamp we're studying the whole area.
We're in Irion County.
And if they're good I -- it wouldn't surprise me that the partner we're in with right now wouldn't want to do some additional.
And there are some -- there's a lot of West Texas as you know and we've been out there before.
And we do have some relationships out there.
And so I would say that you hit the 2 the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville but I would say in the back of my mind if there's an opportunity in the Wolfcamp between the drilling partnership and some of our partners I wouldn't have any problem doing something out there.
And your next question comes from the line of Devin Geoghegan from Nexus.
2 questions if you could just help.
One is an accounting question and one is just regarding next year.
Just in terms of Slide 15 where you all breakout the quarter-by-quarter and then the annual for '13.
Can you help me understand how much of the production and then how much of the EBITDA is associated with the HGI partnership just so I can take and tie everything out? I can give you that.
Probably it's better if you call us and let me do that.
We did do a proportional consolidation for that entity and I just don't have the numbers right in front of me.
But if you call Chris our IRR guy I think he can walk you through all of that.
Okay.
And then second question is you all mentioned that next year CapEx would be plus or minus what EBITDA will be and then $500 million was mentioned.
Without tying you to the $500 million do you have a sense for what production for next year would get to that $500 million which I can assume includes the proportion of HGI? Keep in mind that $500 million came out of my big mouth...
So here's the answer to that question.
You just hold the phone until December 10.
What we're going to do the layout '14 for you in detail that slide that you see on 15 that you just referred to we will have that laid out for '14 and give you all of that the specifics about.
So you just hold the phone until then.
That would be helpful.
And I'll add that between now and December 10 we have our Board of Directors meeting.
Where we will present our plans capital program to the board.
And so we'll get their endorsement or support at that time.
So we really are a little bit preliminary in talking what our plan is very definitively for next year.
December 10.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark from Silver Rock.
Just when you were talking about the KKR economics the way they get their cap of 1.2x and then you buying below PV-10 on PDP I just wanted to understand the -- when you say you're buying below PV-10 on that well what's the -- what kind of order of magnitude below PV-10 for example like 10% 20% 30%.
I guess another way of asking what's the -- are you buying it like PV-12 or PV-15 kind of value? Well let's put it this way.
It depends on 3 major factors and we mentioned this in the last call.
It depends how much of the first year production what the production rate is.
It depends on capital costs because of the cap I mean the drilling costs.
And then it depends on what you're at the time of acquisition what the forward curve is on oil specifically.
And so all 3 of those factors and if you say -- if you use $7.2 million for capital cost and if you use what we think is these things typically produce 20% to 25% am I right Marcia in the first year? Yes.
And so I'd say we're shooting for 75%.
But depending on what Harold can do it could be as much as 50% of PV-10.
So we haven't run.
But we'll have that for you by December 10.
We'll run that.
That's a good question.
So the best way for you to see this is in the appendix of the earnings slide on Slide 19 We've given you a single well example of how we think this partnership works.
And very specifically to your question.
If you look at the -- that box when you get a minute the retained value for EXCO again on the single well example.
We've put in here as half of -- and then I'll go through all the numbers in this page but I'm just pointing you to this page for you to look at.
If you look at that $0.5 million the point 5 in the retained value for EXCO box that is what we would identify as the discount if that's what you want to call it to PV-10 and in this case PV-10 where it's saying it's $3.2 million.
So think about those numbers in terms of how you would calculate what we expect.
During that case on that slide then is it the 2.7 divided by the 3.2 ? So 84% of PV-10? Is that...
Yes.
Yes.
That example that is exactly right.
And what's the IRR though is that like a PV-15 or PV-12 or something like that? It sounded like about a PV-14 probably but I haven't done the math.
But what's the unlevered return that you're buying that for? Well so I -- that's a fair question.
And the way I -- the way this thing is structured really is not on an IRR basis.
In other words they're getting a 1.2x their drilling capital return and we kind of split access above.
Once they get to that cap you take that PV-10 number and then they effectively split the difference between the 2 partners.
So I look at it more on a multiple of capital than I do on an IRR.
I mean I guess if you were able to buy a PDP well equal to PV-12 let's say? Not PV-10 it's slightly below PV-10 value but PV-12 which looks like maybe close to this is that like a good thing relative to your cost of capital? That's what I was wondering about.
Vis-a-vis like welded IRRs that we all know about of 30% or more in these plays.
We've been doing this for 40 years.
And we look at 500 deals a year and we probably concentrate on 100 out of the 500 and we probably get 2.
But if we can buy PDP properties at PV-10.
Keep in mind we can usually finance 50% to 60% of that with 2% cost of debt.
So our equity return on capital is huge on the PDP.
The challenges lies none of these deals are pure PDP so you've got to put up capital.
And usually when you're buying land it's 100% equity but your rate of return goes down more of what I call it pollution is in them.
But pure PDP's when we're borrowing money at 2% to 3% and we're putting up 50% of the capital our IRR is high for the rate of return on our equity.
Return on equity is huge buying PDPs if you can buy them at PV-10.
I guess the -- but your bonds are yielding 8%.
And obviously your cost of equity is well north of that.
And so that's where I'm getting a blended whack if you will or cost of capital for the company with obviously 92%.
And so the other thing though related to this is when you buy PDP well are you getting -- my understanding is there is no offsetting the upside in terms of unbooked potential like normally when a resource play trades before PV-10 obviously that's really cheap because there's unbooked assets on the ground.
But on the PDP well I think that's where I'm confused.
Is there anything that's beyond the actual well that you're getting an upside? No.
We're buying -- we're just buying PDP wells.
We have a company called CODA that for years 98% of the stuff we did is buy properties from major oil companies.
And we were able to grow it 30% a year because all the majors back in the late '80s and through the '90s were selling those things.
So typically if you're buying PDP concentrated on PDP that adds to your EBITDA.
Your cost of capital is not 8% because you can use secured financing.
Our blended cost of debt today is right at 5% between the revolver and the 8.5% or whatever our debt bonds are trading at today.
So -- and we do believe that cost capital on equity is closer to 25% so you're exactly right.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Brody from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification.
I'm just -- was looking through your press release and you made mention in the Haynesville section that you were just considering entrants to join partnerships to develop -- to facilitate development.
I was just trying to reconcile that with the comments that you weren't looking for a partner in any place but the Marcellus.
No no no.
I think the question was would we look for a partner to make acquisitions or would we consider selling it to somebody? I would say the only of the 4 areas that we're concentrating in right now the only one would be on that type would be the Marcellus.
In the Haynesville because of so many locations that we have and the possibility of picking up more to potentially accelerate drilling we would consider a drilling partnership.
But we're not going to -- we're not looking to sell those assets.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Would you mind just one last one? The equity stake you capped in TGGT could you just give us your rationale for that -- for doing that? Yes.
Basically it's a pipeline that we spend a lot of time and a lot of effort building.
And I'd say it's use of capital.
If we have the possibility of -- it was bill out and it was really based on us and we consider that a 12% 13% rate of return type asset.
And if we can just take that capital and convert it into 40% 50% type of rate of return that was the idea.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line Jeff Robertson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Doug as you all lay out in 2014 can you just talk -- you talked earlier about acquisition priorities but in the right scenario would you substitute acquisitions for some of the drilling that you're talking about in the Haynesville and/or the Eagle Ford? I guess in the Eagle Ford you're more limited because of the KKR joint venture? That's a good question.
I would -- it depends on the deal.
I'd say right now with a couple of the large independents that might be selling some things if we could buy them right then we would consider that.
Yes.
I mean it just depends on a deal.
I mean the answer is I kind of expect this to be a very active year.
I also expect that a lot of large players whether they're majors or large independents I expect they're working on their capital budgets as we speak.
I kind of expect that a lot of them are going to say don't drill any gas wells.
And as they do that there might be some opportunity to buy or do some joint ventures with them to develop.
And so we're just ready for any and all.
And we're in discussions with 5 or 6 people right now that are in the Haynesville that we'd like to do a transaction with.
But we'd substitute yes.
Research Division</strong> And just your preference to do a transaction of any significant size would be to go in with some sort of a partnership structure like you have with KKR and the Eagle Ford from the start and not to have to put that in subsequent to doing a deal is that correct? Yes I would say the comp -- the first KKR deal that we did had extra complexities with it which was at Land Bank.
I would say our first choice would be take -- let us on the land and take the land bank part of that formula out of it.
That deal was about a 3-inch document between us and KKR.
And if we just do the drilling partnership it's a quarter of an inch.
Mark went dizzy negotiating that deal.
And so did Marcia.
Marcia because -- I'd say drilling only with no land would be our preference.
And any deal we're looking at that's kind of what our focus is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly are you more comfortable with owning -- with EXCO owning the land in the Haynesville because you haven't -- you know a lot more about that play versus the Eagle Ford? Yes.
I mean that's our number one comfort zone.
But we've been there for 4 or 5 years.
And our guys both the operational guys have done a spectacular job and Marcia's team we've got -- she's got 21 different decline curves across that.
And I'd say a deal comes in within 5 minutes we can say if we're interested or not.
Hopefully we get there in the Eagle Ford we're just not there yet.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the Shelby trough.
Are there any Cotton Valley liquid zones that are perspective or any other zones that are perspective for liquids targets? Not in our area.
Ours is dry gas.
Now the Bossier is prospective there but that's also dry gas is it not? The liquid there is to the north of us.
Yes.
Up in Canola County I think Anadarko's drilling some Haynesville that has liquids but that's on top of a very prolific what's that field? Carthage? Yes.
And so I hear and I haven't verified this I hear they're making liquids in the Haynesville there.
But where we are in the Shelby trough I think it's mostly dry gas is it not? And your final question comes from the line of Howard Henick from Scurly Capital.
Two quick questions.
There's been some talk on the pipeline that you might have been unhappy or happy with the price received and I want you to comment on that.
And also do you plan on keeping that little equity smidge that you got in the deal? Or would that be something that you might monetize to pay off debt? I'm always unhappy when we sell something.
I would say we've been looking at this for 2 years.
I think initially we thought we were going to get more and we had the option of doing a public MLP.
We had 5 investment bankers in here.
We went through it and so we -- I have that in the back of my head the whole time.
As time went on and our 22 rigs went to 3 the EBITDA in that went down.
And so obviously the value went down.
Was -- I think at the time when we ended up signing the deal up we're happy with the price.
At least everybody else is happier than I am.
And I kind of expect that these guys are going to do a couple of acquisitions in the neighborhood.
And they're going to turn around and take it public and they're going to do well with it and we're going to support them and we're going to help them.
And a couple of deals we're looking at there right now.
Have some gathering systems with them and we'll offer it to them first because we're going to help them.
As far as keeping the 4% or 5% I'd say our interest is to keep that.
And with the idea that that thing's going to go public within the next 12 months and I think it will be a very good public vehicle because they have other pipeline and gas plant assets that they can drop down into it.
Basically I want to hold it because it's got value.
Yes Yes.
I think it's got more value than potentially more value in a public format than it does today.
Right.
But it's not a long-term hold.
You'll hold it until you point -- a year or 2 out it goes public and then at that point you could monetize I guess is what you're saying? Well I think we'll look at choices I mean if the distribution's right and the upside's right we'll look at continuing to hold.
We're not looking to monetize it tomorrow or even if they go public.
We'll just take a look at it.
Got you.
So that's not one of the assets you're looking at to achieve -- to lighten up on debt at this point in time? No.
I will now turn the call back to Doug Miller for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
Good questions.
Anything that we did not clearly answer we would offer you to call myself Mark Chris and we'll get the answers to you.
I think I apologize for being a little bit vague on some of these things but we're kind of in a transition period right now.
I'm taking over these assets.
One of them is a new area.
And so getting real good hard numbers to you right now is a challenge.
We're doing the best we can.
But I do believe we're on a track to have that done by the end of the year.
So I think there's probably expect a little fog around the fourth quarter.
But we think we'll have that cleaned up.
And I think here over the next 30-plus days from an operational standpoint what's going on in the Wolfcamp financially how the -- what exactly what we're getting for the crude oil et cetera.
I think we'll be in really good shape by December 10 to give everybody really focused and a lot better numbers.
Typically we give you good numbers.
But typically we don't do a billion-dollar deal that somebody else was operating.
And so give us a little bit of room on that.
We're going to give it to you best we can.
Because I'm looking at daily reports and on the oil production up in the Eagle Ford and it surprises me.
So I yell at Mike and Harold every Monday why is it 5 000 instead of 8 000? And they have a reason.
So I almost wish I could send out daily reports to all of you guys.
But I think by -- with the pipeline and the compressors in and our weekly meetings with the pipeline company I think by December 10 we're going to be able to give you really good hard numbers.
If there's nothing else meeting adjourned.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.