Good morning.
My name is Rachel I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Schedule Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release and Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rachel.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining EXCO Resources Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO’s quarterly results.
We will also provide some insights as to how we see our business evolving followed by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our third quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Ricky are other members of EXCO management.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
Those of us at the company thank you for your interest in the EXCO Resources conference call to review results for the third quarter of 2014.
Before I get into the details of EXCO’s operating results I want to discuss recent industry and commodity trends and how they line up with our capital expenditure plans for the remainder of ‘14 and into 2015.
Oil prices have recently faced some significant headwinds while we can’t control oil prices we remain particularly enthusiastic about our South Texas oil assets where we’re focused on reducing our costs and testing our acreage not only in the Eagle Ford but also for additional productive zones like the Buda to enhance our returns.
From a hedging perspective we have 4 250 barrels per day of production swapped at approximately $96 for the fourth quarter of ‘14.
This represents 73% of our midpoint oil production guidance.
This obviously helps mitigate some of the near term volatility in oil and I should note that oil sales made up about 34% of EXCO’s third quarter revenue.
Natural gas price and our stock price have also been challenged.
Again we focused on the things we can control including utilizing enhanced completion methodologies across our portfolio and managing our costs.
For the fourth quarter ‘14 we have 215 000 Mmbtu per day swapped at $4.23 and this represents 70% of our midpoint gas production guidance.
We continue to evaluate commodity prices industry trends and internal operational and financial analysis to assess modifications to our development program.
In light of the current commodity price environment we’re deferring some drilling and completion activities in North Louisiana as we manage our 2014 capital expenditure budget.
And we expect 2014 capital expenditures to total approximately $420 million the midpoint of the guidance from last quarter’s call.
We’re currently working on our 2015 capital budget and are focused on managing our capital expenditures as a review of our economic return criteria cash flow generation and of course our broad inventory of development opportunities.
Now as we indicated in a recent press release the CEO search process is ongoing and that process may result in EXCO acquiring oil and gas assets in connection therewith.
If we went down that road I would describe a potential acquisition is complementary to our existing asset base.
Now before I go through the slides I want to pause and thank our EXCO team.
We’ve continued to execute on the commitments we’ve made earlier this year particularly to focus on our development program improve our liquidity and fortify our platform for future growth.
Throughout the year our results have met the guidance we’ve publicly forecast.
I’m proud to be associated with people at this company from our field personnel to our employees in our corporate offices to our board of directors.
I can assure you we’re all continuing to work to deliver improved results and enhance our value for you and for ourselves.
Now starting with the slides slide three provides key takeaways from today’s call regarding our third quarter results as we continue to deliver on our commitments.
As in the prior two quarters this year we met or exceeded our key guidance parameters.
EXCO delivered solid results with 33 billion cubic feet production or some 358 million cubic feet per day.
Our $94 million of adjusted EBITDA exceeded the midpoint of guidance and our focus on cost helped drive operating costs and G&amp;A expenses below the guidance range.
With the pending sales of our interest in Compass Production Partners we’ll receive approximately $119 million in cash and remove $83 million of Compass debt which we proportionately consolidate from our balance sheet while simplifying our corporate structure.
Additionally we increased our credit agreement’s borrowing base to $900 million during our recent bank redetermination adding incremental liquidity and demonstrating support for the quality of our asset base.
As of September 30th we had $855 million of pro forma liquidity.
The sale of our interest in Compass fits strategically and financially for EXCO while streamlining our corporate structure and operations.
We’re monetizing our minority interests with relatively minimal impact to our adjusted EBITDA and redeploy the capital on the development of our extensive inventory of oil and natural gas properties.
Turning to slide four EXCO is much better positioned in the current commodity environment due to the actions we’ve taken over the past year.
We’re more streamlined and focused we have a more simplified corporate structure and we have significant liquidity to take advantage of our drilling improve development producing output process for oil in Eagle Ford which Ricky will discuss in some detail later and other potential acquisitions particularly in areas where we have operating capability and expertise.
We’re testing several upside opportunities across our East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas assets and we’ll discuss this today in more detail.
On slide five you’ll see a depiction of EXCO’s 71 000 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana about 99% of which are held by production.
During the quarter we operated six rigs we completed our 2014 appraisal testing and delineation program in the Shelby area of East Texas and we continue our manufacturing program in North Louisiana.
We drilled 15 wells and completed 7 wells in the quarter at East Texas North Louisiana.
We’re currently operating five rigs in the area but we do have some plans to step that down to three by year end.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes approximately 30 000 net acres into Soto Parish.
We had some 390 wells flowing to sales at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter we completed 15 wells and completed 5 wells in Holly.
We recently changed our completion design but we increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by approximately 50% and turned those wells to sales in Q3.
We’re very encouraged by the early results from these wells we had this profit increase they have strong rates and flow in pressures.
This represents an excellent example of applied and lessons learned from industry trends as well as our 2014 East Texas program into another area Holly where we expect to see improved well performance and increased estimated ultimate recoveries as we apply these new completions flow back techniques going forward.
Also in the Soto Parish we completed the drilling of our first cross unit development with five wells across two sections with 5 000 foot laterals to 7 000 foot laterals as compared to our typical 4 200 foot Holly laterals.
We’ll be completing these wells with up to 18 frac stages and pumping 1 600 pounds of sand per foot.
Cross unit development enables us to drill at least 10 sections where we have not booked reserves due to a presence of a major fault.
In the East Texas Shelby area we have 16 400 net acres with approximately 80 wells flowing to sales at the end of the quarter.
Represent slide six we wrapped up the drilling portion of our longer lateral 2014 Shelby test program in July where we drilled three wells into the Bossier and five wells into the Haynesville shales.
We have seven wells turned to sales with eight wells coming online with the end of this week.
We completed these wells under our new completions program with increased profit per completed foot and a more restricted flow back focused on pressure management.
We’re encouraged by the results of these wells and we anticipate this program will add reserves in excess of our prior forecast.
Now in these wells we initially estimated reserves of 1 billion cubic feet per 1 000 foot of lateral.
Now we think we should see higher reserved based on our well performance and offset operator well performance where we’ve seen EURs as high as 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral.
If we could but I’m not saying we will but if we could increase the EUR to 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 feet we can add approximately $400 million of potential incremental PB 10 as compared to our current valuation which is based on the 1 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral.
We do anticipate an increase above the 1 Bcf EUR per 1 000 feet.
So we’re now planning our development program optimizing lateral links well space and completion methods and what we’re trying to do is maximize our returns as we deploy our capital and we do have plans to start our drilling in Shelby in 2015.
On slide seven you can see we’re drilling a test in the Bossier Shale and the Holly area of the Soto Parish Louisiana to assess the impact of our enhanced drilling completion techniques on Bossier economics.
The Bossier Shale is just above the Haynesville and it contains rich deposits of natural gas and we prove that drilling two Bossier wells back in 2010.
We believe we can apply what we learnt from our Shelby drilling and completion efforts with these newer completion designs and flow back methodologies into the Bossier and significantly improve our results.
Also note that having existing infrastructure in place should enhance our returns and increase the economic viability of a significant number of drilling locations at lower natural gas prices.
We have some 300 or more Bossier opportunities and if this thing works out we’ll light up a lot of opportunities in a lot of locations.
To optimize our base production in East Texas and North Louisiana we continue to focus on multiple projects including refracturing of wells reducing system operating pressures with compression projects and selling artificial lifts to minimize base production declines.
Slide eight shows the performance of our first refrac stimulation test in the Soto Parish which is providing encouraging results.
The fracture stimulated a 2010 vintage well that it produced 4.8 Bcf before we re-stimulated the shale reservoir.
We realized 1.4 million cubic foot per day increase in production and very importantly a 2 900 PSI increase in flowing pressure more than tripling both volumes and pressures in this instance.
Now we believe we can improve on these results with a future refracs as we modify our diverting process to contact additional sections of the lateral.
We’ve identified an inventory of over 270 PDP wells to potentially refract and as we’re excited about these early results both us and industry are experiencing some real positive signs there.
We’re testing different refrac designs to optimize costs and production uplift.
We have three refrac schedules in the fourth quarter and we plan to implement a refrac campaign in ‘15.
Cost currently range between 1.1 million and 2 million depending upon the design the amount of science applied and the size of the particular refrac.
Also in North Louisiana we’ve seen a 5% or 6% gas production uplift on some 120 wells where we’ve reduced lime pressures.
We have lateral compression running in Holly which reduced pressures about 40% and we’ve seen the gas production uplift on the wells impacted.
We’re working closely with our midstream provider and expect to have full Holly compression online some time in 2015.
And we do currently have full field compression running in East Texas where we’ve seen the 5% gas reduction increase on our Shelby wells.
Turning to South Texas on slide nine we have about 49 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil vendor with farm in options to earn some additional net acreage.
Our acreage is 96% or so held by production and also includes additional upside in other formations including the Buda the Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
As noted last quarter we’re starting our delineation of the Buda here in the fourth quarter of this year.
We’ve seen strong results by other operators very near where our acreage is and we’ve combined some of our Buda acreage with a partner that will drill a Buda well in November as a part of a four five well drilling plan.
Also we’ll be drilling an operated Buda well in additional perspective in Buda acreage in the first quarter of next year.
Slide 10 highlights our operational performance in South Texas.
To optimize our drilling in turn to sales timing we ran two rigs during the quarter drilling 11 and completing 14 wells.
We realize average 24 hour initial production rates of 493 barrels of oil per day in the core area wells we’ve turned to sales and average 30 day AIPs of 425 barrels of oil per day.
We’re achieving consistently lower drilling times per well averaging 13 days from spud to rig release.
We’ve actually seen some days to spud to rig release sub 11 and we’ve significantly reduced our operating cost.
Based on our current assumptions our wells can generate a 20% well head hour on benchmark oil process down to $73.50 and at $80 we can generate somewhere in the mid to high 20% rates of return.
At the end of the third quarter we had 31 South Texas wells waiting on completion.
We expect to turn 23 to sales in the fourth quarter.
We’re actually going to see our most significant quarter as far as our corporate turn to sales activity.
The highest quarter we’ve had year-to-date was somewhere around 25 or actually turn 38 wells to sales across EXCO here in Q4.
Now down in South Texas we’ll be producing our wells either into our central production facilities the first of which is now up and running or standalone tank batteries if it’s outside of our core area.
These central production facilities are going to be installed owned and operated by a third party reducing our total capital investment improving operating efficiencies and minimizing trucking.
The first central production facility came online in October and the two additional facilities are currently under construction.
We’ve added an additional rig in South Texas so we have three rigs running today.
And we expect to drill 70 wells in total for 2014 61 of which will be in our core [audio gap] Highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have approximately 290 000 net acres including about 161 000 net acres perspective for the Marcellus Shale.
With our 73% held by production position in the region we control much of timing of the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 drilling locations.
We’ve reduced our 2014 activity in Appalachia but we’re currently expect to drill one to three wells in ‘15 to appraise and hold acreage.
I’d now like to turn the presentation to Ricky for the financial overview.
Thanks Hal and thanks to each of you on the phone for your interest in our company.
On slide 12 you can see the third quarter performances compared to guidance of EBITDA was $93 million little over $93 million which was above the midpoint of guidance.
This is consistent with the first two quarters of 2014 that we’ve delivered.
It is primarily driven by oil production as well as the company’s continued effort on managing operating costs and lowering G&amp;A.
We are focused on the items we can control and look forward to improving those as we move forward.
I’d like to take a minute to wrap some numbers around the headcount and G&amp;A numbers.
EXCO has actively managed the number down.
As of December 2012 EXCO had 919 employees after the Compass sale we’ll be down to 516 employees.
This is a reduction of close to 40% taking in conjunction with our entry into the oil assets in South Texas is extremely impressive.
There is a significant focus across the organization to manage cost operated and otherwise.
We have sequentially lowered LOE in each of the quarters during 2014.
The initiatives include significant reduction in our saltwater disposal and reduction of reliance on third party contractors from when we obtained the assets.
These initiatives allow us to preserve our profitability in a lower commodity price environment and we are comfortable that we can continue to execute.
Natural gas came in slightly below guidance due to the timing of well turn to sales in East Texas and North Louisiana a lot of this was driven by frac availability.
In addition two of the wells turn to sales during the quarter came online September 30th.
We have actively managed the capital the number we’ve put forward is $103.5 million which is towards the bottom of guidance to reflect the current price environment as we move forward.
On slide 13 we put forward the fourth quarter guidance our production and EBITDA soon the sale of our Compass asset which Hal alluded to earlier as of October 31st.
If you exclude Compass from the third and fourth quarter we expect this as a sequential increase in production based on the turn to sales as we currently have them forecasted.
Slide 14 provides an update on the wells that will be eligible for the buyback process as outlined in the participation agreement.
I would like to highlight there are many assumptions that go into the underlying documents and some of the numbers may change before our first offer.
But we thought it was important to provide some context as move forward.
Currently seven wells are eligible for the first quarter of 2015 offer based on how long have been to sales.
Based on the D&amp;C costs wells’ performance on $80 oil press a flat $80 oil price we currently estimate that the acquired PB 10 value will range somewhere between $35 million and $40 million and the offer amount will be $20 million to $30 million.
This will result in EXCO purchasing wells in an approximate PB 15 and approximately 68 000 per flowing barrel both of which we find to be very attractive metrics for PDP wells in the current environment.
We have ample liquidity to execute this process the acquisition of the PDP wells should result in incremental borrowing base.
In addition the execution of this first tranche would add incremental production of approximately 120 000 to 125 000 barrels in 2015 as we continue to diversify EXCO’s commodity risks.
On slide 15 we’ve highlighted the liquidity and debt numbers.
We recently completed our semiannual borrowing base redetermination and our borrowing base was increased.
This demonstrates the support of the banks and their review of our underlying assets and the quality therein.
When we close our sale of Compass we will receive $119 million and we’ll remove $83 million of debt of our consolidated balance sheet.
I’d like to highlight since we entered into the Compass arrangement we had received net distributions of $9.6 million since February of 2013.
We’re extremely excited about selling the asset for $119 million.
When you pro forma the borrowing base increase an expected cash proceeds we will have $855 million of liquidity as of September 30 on a pro forma basis.
This is an increase of over $630 million from September in 2013 and I’d like to point out there is no near term bonds coming due the first tranche in 2018 and the second tranche in 2020.
We feel we’re well positioned as we move forward.
On slide 16 I’d like to highlight the company’s hedge position as Hal had alluded to in his remarks we feel that we’re appropriately hedged for the fourth quarter and we have looked to hedge in 2015 and feel that we have protected the balance sheet.
We have changed our hedging to rely simply on swaps and utilize costless freeways to provide some exposure to commodity increase as well as protecting the EBITDA by adding the freeway we maintain the opportunity to participate in the upside but have provided the downside protection I alluded to.
In closing we demonstrated through our actions that we are executing on our strategy simplifying our structure and delivering on our commitments.
We have significantly improved our balance sheet and enhanced our liquidity.
Successful energy companies built and manage to take advantage of our commodity cycles.
The management board at EXCO is committed to make EXCO successful.
EXCO is well positioned to execute on our business objective and to be acquisitive in the current commodity price based on our liquidity as we look forward to 2015.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Hal and I would like to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Michael Row with TPH.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I just got a quick question I guess on the Q4 guidance.
So looks like you’re anticipating a Compass sale would occur at the end of October.
So could you give us a feel for I guess how that production today is anticipated to decline from I guess from the second quarter number that you provided on the announcement of the sale through the end of the year.
I’m just trying to figure out how much of a reduction the Compass volume will make in the Q4 guidance? We had about 25.5% of the Compass volume and they’ve been consistently performing at 95 million a day.
So that would put us down in the 22 million a day or so for 61 days in the quarter.
So we’ll cut the volumes through October 31 and then after they’re down.
Okay.
Probably my math would tell me that we’ll lose 15 million or so per day for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I guess you made multiple references throughout the earnings press release regarding EXCO’s flexibility to pursue acquisitions.
I understand you probably can’t talk in too much detail on this but could you just give us a flavor for I guess the primary goals that you would be hoping to achieve with a hypothetical acquisitions.
Is there any improvement in credit metrics diversifying your asset base acquiring a new CEO or if you can kind of help us think about what you’re trying to accomplish there? Ricky talked that through pretty well sounds like all of the above in my opinion.
I mean frankly we look at acquisitions that are going to be in bolt-on areas first and foremost areas where we’ve got operating expertise and think we can quickly move in and explore whatever opportunities may be presented.
We’ll look both at oil and dry gas.
We’re obviously going to follow through with our business development team and look at things that come across our plate.
We’re also been looking at things as simple as acquiring small interest scenarios we already exists like working interests from partners in wells that we operate.
So there is a variety of opportunities we look at but I’d say first and foremost we’re going to look for typical acquisition that would have some PDP associated with it some upside associated with it.
We could use our expert operating team on to go and exploit those opportunities and then of course we’re going to make sure that they are accretive to the company.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I’ll hop back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Your line is open.
Good morning Leo.
Good morning Leo.
Hey guys.
I had handful of questions around I guess slide 14 which kind of talks about the South Texas wells where you guys have to offered a purchase I guess maybe I wasn’t quite understanding exactly how this program worked when you guys announced it here.
But it’s sort of a look back at some of your wells completed and I guess my understanding was that basically you guys completed a number of wells in a given quarter and then roughly 12 months later you have to offer a make purchase of those wells is that correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
I guess I’m just looking at some of the numbers here in terms of what you’re expecting to offer 2015 I guess starting with second quarter you’re talking about 11 wells and you got 11 wells in the third quarter and you’ve got 12 wells in the fourth quarter.
But I mean if I did kind of a look back I’m seeing you guys completed more wells than that so are there some wells excluded from the offset because of the criteria or what am I missing here? No there are no wells that are excluded.
One of the components in the agreement is the length of time the wells are on production and so as we’ve developed the area and wells have been shut in for offset fracs or wells have been rotted up and then there is criterion the agreement that extends the time in which KKR has to receive the revenue to get to their turn.
So that’s the component that I don’t think you were aware of when you looked at it previously.
Okay.
That makes sense.
So basically it’s 12 month of actual production and excludes any down time on these wells? Yeah another point Leo this is Chris you want to think about is that we also had completed wells outside of the core area 1 AMIs.
So those are outside of the participation agreement and don’t go into the offer process.
So that might also be where you’re having challenged time seeing up your number.
Okay now that makes a lot of sense as well.
Can you provide a little bit more color around that? I know you guys talked about doing some drill to earn deals and some other acreage and picking up some other acreages.
Are there any rough percentage of activity this year may be next year it’s going to be devoted to areas outside of the AMI in the Eagle Ford here? Somewhere on the order of 10% of our drilling activity Leo is going to be on acreage outside of that AMI make it up a little bit.
We’ve actually leased some acreage out there outside of that area but we’re continuing to look for additional opportunities.
You may recall we’ve got a combination of farm in acreage that we acquired from Chesapeake as well as the acreage that we’ve acquired from Chesapeake that we actually bought.
So there will be some drilling outside of what we call the core area where we partnered with KKR.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Expand on that a little bit.
For this year you’re looking at a total count of nine wells that we drilled or plan to drill that are outside of the AMI participation agreement process and we plan to turn to sales 10 wells that are outside of that process.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Could you give us some more color around Eagle Ford well costs? I mean you guys alluded to improvements in drilling times here and there is going to be a focus for you all to try to get cost down.
Could you give us a sense of kind of where you’re at on cost base… A good number to keep in mind Leo is $7 million per 7 600 foot lateral.
Early on we were saying that we were going to be at $6.8 million $6.9 million and that was for 7 100 foot lateral.
So as we’ve lengthened our lateral added a frac stage or so we’ve brought the cost back up to about $7 million.
Okay that’s helpful.
And do you guys have any updated estimate on EURs and those 7 600 foot lateral wells? No we’re really going to go through the end of year reserve process as far as EURs go.
But what I will say is that the EURs to this point are exactly what we forecast in our acquisition case.
So we’re very happy with the results at this point.
We think there may be some increases as we go through this process.
But I’m not going to quote numbers until we finish the process and we’ll have that year-end.
All right.
That’s helpful.
And I guess you guys also spoke about some enhanced kind of completion techniques more sands longer laterals on the Haynesville.
I know you spoke about increase in EURs but from refracs but I guess same question I mean are you seeing sounds like you’re seeing improvement on the production side with more sand here and longer laterals.
Could you guys put anything out there in terms of quantification or help us out thinking about magnitude I’ve got the best example I use is Shelby which I talked about a little bit in my remarks.
We previously had 1 Bcf per 1 000 feet of completed lateral and we’ve seen results as high as 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 feet of completed lateral in wells that we’re non-operated working interest partners in.
Now what we’re doing is we’re going to step this thing up and we’re going to make sure that we’re not overlooking but first step is probably a pretty confident will take this thing to 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet lateral.
We think there is an opportunity that it may go up beyond that.
So what we’ve done there we’ve increased our by about 50%.
We’ve definitely done a more dramatic restricted flow back program we’re limiting our volumes to probably around 10 million a day but it is enhancing our EUR.
All right.
That’s really helpful.
Thanks for all the color guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.
Good morning Will.
How are you? Good.
I wanted to kind of follow on the same path in East Texas.
You mentioned now may be taking up to 1.3 Bcf for every 1 000 feet or so and I think you guys mentioned about 6 500 feet of lateral so that would be about 8.5 Bcf type well but you guys are talking about you’ve actually seen results that would take you well beyond the 10 Bcf type well.
Can you talk about may be the well costs that you are seeing with the 6 500 lateral wells? We’re seeing about $10.8 million to $11 million but that’s fully drilled and completed that’s the 6 500 foot lateral.
Got you.
And so to be on the conservative side just to echo your thoughts 8.5 Bcf is probably a good starting point at your end.
But we’re definitely seeing confirmation may be much higher than 10 Bcf at this point on those wells? Correct.
We’re seeing that but we’ll step it up appropriately.
Gotcha.
And then the other thing I wanted to hit on was the offer wells you mentioned that the wells had been tracking about in line with your original expectations for the tight curve.
How should we think about being the first seven wells really the first in the program I assume should we expect some productivity ramp in the remaining wells that you guys completed this year as you guys kind of got landing the wells down a little bit better and that sort of thing? I think what you’re going to see is some reduced costs from those original wells.
And I will note that those original wells were really unit wells so you didn’t have any depletion around them.
So I’m not sure we’re going to see a ramp up in volumes but we definitely will see a wrap down in cost.
So we’re continuing to manage that program we’re continuing to ensure that we’re doing the right things.
We remain very optimistic about it we’re very encouraged about the results but think about those first tranche of wells just like you enter a new play remember an example I gave is we were 16 17 days from spud to rig release now we’re down to 13 in some cases 11 days from spud to rig release.
So costs are going to come down sort of in a proportional manner.
Now we are continuing to look at what our profit program might entail what our completion program might entail but there will be some changes as you go through a development program in an area.
Gotcha.
And I don’t know if you guys have it handy but do you happen to have what the first seven wells are currently producing on a net basis or net to the partnership space? No I don’t but you can kind of back into that from the number that we had 120 000 barrels that we’ll be buying from those seven wells noting that that’s on a net basis I think you know what our interests are etcetera.
Sure.
Okay.
That’s all I had guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Brian.
I wanted to follow up with regards to the Soto Parish that you talked about drilling 5 000 to 7 000 foot laterals into sections that had faults ranked through them.
Could you talk a little bit more about that and both the risks given the presence of the faults and the opportunity that you see there? Sure.
The fault sort of runs southwest to northeast and it bisects some sections.
And obviously if we were back in the day Louisiana had rags that did not allow you to cross unit lines or cross from one section to another.
Now the regulations allow that as long as you get concurrence from the mineral owners or the owners in both sections that you’re going to look at.
So normally we would drill in 4 300 foot laterals in that dissected section that was bisected by a fault you may have only been able to drill a 2 000 foot lateral.
That is not economic.
So what we’ve done is we’ve gone back looked at the sections that are bisected by the fault looked at the sections that are adjacent to those typically north or south.
Then what we’ll do is we’ll set our pad at the either northern most point we can in the section to the north we’ll drill across the section our geosciences tell us where the fault is so we typically do not drill into the fault we avoid it.
And so that’s how we end up with the lengths that are 5 000 feet to 7 000 feet.
And it’s been done by ourselves now and it’s been done by some other industry partners as well we have some 10 sections that had limitations on the lateral links so we’re going to impact those 10 sections by drilling those cross unit laterals.
Got it.
And I guess unrelated to the lack of commerciality from drilling 2 000 foot laterals instead of something greater.
Did you see greater geologic risk because of what you’re trying to do is because of the presence of the faults relative to… No we do not.
We are very confident that we have the knowledge of where that fault is.
In fact we drilled the fault very near that fault I mean we’re in a good shape with that.
We don’t have a problem with that Brian.
Got it.
And then on the acquisitions point do you think about the funding of that solely with selling of your borrowing base? We think about it both with the borrowing base and of course typically we do an acquisition that had a PDP component we could add to the facility with that.
So that’s obviously an alternative.
And I’ll be candid we’re not against looking for partners to help with some of that funding as well as long as we can maintain our operatorship.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your next question is from the line of Michael Rowe with TPH.
Your line is open.
Okay great.
Thanks for letting me back in here.
You bet.
I guess I just want to understand a little bit more about the fracs that you are doing in the Haynesville.
You kind of talked about the cumulative production received from that first well that you did the test on.
In terms of the 270 additional candidates that you expect that could use this refracs what timeframe do you think those could be execute on if you had unlimited capital? In other words are you waiting for a well to hit a certain maturity or you would consider doing the refrac and if so what time would that be? The way we came up with that number and you’ll note that we have some 380 390 wells in that area is that these are wells that are not involved in our most restricted flow back program.
What we did early on is we did manage our flow back we obviously had restricted chokes but of late we’ve restricted that more.
Now what we’re doing is we’re looking at the wells that we might have drawn down sooner and that’s the first criterion that we look at besides what might be a refrac candidate.
Now we got to be candid we’re also going to look what the state of the well is I mean if there is any problem with the casing obviously that may cause some interference with the opportunity to do refracs but we will implement a refrac program based on the testing this year in our capital budget for 2015 whether that’s 12 wells or 24 wells or some larger number is yet to be determined.
We typically are what I like to call a fast when it comes to technology we’re not afraid to go out there and try things but I don’t want to go out there and get ahead of ourselves at the same time.
So will we have a program? Yes.
Is it going to be a pace program? Yes.
Might it increase with success? Absolutely because if we can continue to manage the cost of these things if we can cover the amount of lateral that we want to as far as stimulating the existing well bore this thing can provide some really outstanding economics can even present some opportunities that are at least competitive if not greater than the opportunities that we see from drilling wells.
So it’s a program that we’re going to continue to advise you on program we’re going to continue to implement but at the same time there is some testing to do before I can really get definitive as far as the number of wells we’re going to refrac next year.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I guess may be just quick switching gears over to Appalachia it looks like the quarter over quarter decline was a little bit higher this quarter than you all experienced over the last year.
So I guess I want to say what was may be driving that decline? Then I guess more broadly can you talk about how broadly this asset fits into your portfolio today from a capital competition standpoint? There are some pipeline impacts in some of that production level so there were so negative impacts in being able to access certain pipelines.
Then we did have some repairs that were implemented during the quarter and typically you’ll implement those repairs before you get into the winter season.
So we’ve accelerated a little bit to that.
Okay that’s helpful.
And maybe could you provide some context around on what you’re trying to accomplish next year with the appraisal drilling? And I guess more broadly how this fits into Appalachia assets fits into your assets today given some of the exciting upside you got in the Haynesville as well as Eagle Ford? We communicated back in the spring with our board about what our opportunities might be in Appalachia and how that fits into our whole program go forward.
With the differentials that we’re experiencing as we do not have transportation on pipelines that we’ve locked in.
We’re very restricted on what the price we’re realizing up there is so we’ll get some $1.50 or so in lot of acreage lot of our production.
So we really really like a lot of our rock you’ve probably heard me say it before the best well we brought on the last well we’ve brought in our portfolio.
It’s – in just under 12 months or so right at 12 months it’s about 2.2 or 2.3 Bcf it continues to produce right at 5 million a day at really strong pressures that’s in Sullivan County.
So we’re going to test some acreage around there to both look for similar productivity and at the same time lock up acreage.
So it’s a combination of appraisal and hold acreage program that we’re going to get into next year.
Our big view is that it will probably take two or three years before we re-implement an active program in Appalachia.
We do think we have some 2000 locations that can light up when our prices increase again.
So excited about the opportunity it’s just not going to happen over the next couple of years.
There are better opportunities in the portfolio and what I will say is to maintain that future optionality it’s not going to take a significant amount of capital over the next three years probably in the order of $15 million to $20 million net to us.
Okay.
Really helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from the line of [Park Brown] with IM Portfolios.
Your line is open.
Hal a couple of weeks ago you guys had a long standing board member that was quoted to stay in the company as drawn interest from buyers will you respond directly to that statement? Can you confirm if you’ve hired any investment bankers to evaluate any offers and also just your thoughts on share prices? We have not hired any investment bankers to evaluate any potential offers for the company.
We are continuing with a very deliberate very rigorous process to look for the next leadership for this company and I’m confident personally we’ll end up with a good outcome for the company and for our investors.
As far as the share price like a lot of our peers we’ve seen some money exit this space and it’s impacted us accordingly.
I think that we’ve been disappointed in the outcome that we’ve seen lately.
That said we are going to maintain our deliberate focus on execution continue to manage our balance sheet and continue to position this thing so we can grow in the future.
But hopefully over time this thing will correct itself but it is a touch spot we’ve been in over the last couple of months.
And just as a little follow up considering the large short position that’s all in the stock do you know whether that the board members loan their stock out? And could you comment as to how would that either hurt or help protect shareholders? I have no knowledge of their action on their stock.
I have no idea if they loan it out or not.
You don’t know if there is a board policy as to whether or not they can or can’t? There is not one.
There is not one.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
You’re welcome.
There are no further questions.
I’ll turn the call back over to our speakers for closing remarks.
Again we want to give you our appreciation for participating in the call this morning and thank you for your interest.
Look forward to talking to you again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.