Good morning.
My name is Amy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources fourth-quarter and full-year 2014 review.
[Operator Instructions] Christopher Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Amy.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' fourth quarter and year end 2014 conference call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our fourth-quarter and full-year review slides on our website excoresources.com.
And we will refer to these slides by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Ricky are other members of EXCO Management.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris; good morning everybody.
Got to note it's a snowy day here in Dallas so it's a little bit of unusual happening for us.
Thanks to everybody for you being interested in the EXCO conference call.
We’re going to review results for both the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
We will get into the details of EXCO's operating and financial results in a few minutes but first I'm going to provide an update on recent efforts we've undertaken at the Company to position us for future success.
Turning over to slide 3 in October of 2014 we closed the sale of our interest in Compass Production Partners.
This sale made strategic and financial sense to the Company while it helped us streamline our corporate structure and operations.
We received about $119 million in cash and removed $83 million of Compass debt which we proportionately consolidated from our balance sheet.
We monetized our minority interest with relatively minimal impact to our adjusted EBITDA and this sale removed a higher operating-cost asset from our portfolio.
The cash proceeds were used to reduce the amount outstanding under our credit agreement and improve our liquidity.
The sale didn't impact EXCO's borrowing base.
Here at EXCO we've worked aggressively to reduce debt since closing on about $940 million of acquisitions in July 2013.
We've done this through non-core asset sales and a rights offering of our common stock realizing a total debt reduction of about $600 million through December of 2014.
This month we proactively worked with our banks and amended our credit agreement to provide financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base while deferring a significant amount of our drilling inventory.
We removed the total consolidated-leverage ratio through September 2016 and added a senior secured-leverage ratio of 2.5x at an interest-coverage ratio of 2.0x and set our borrowing base at $725 million.
As of December 31 2014 we had pro forma liquidity of $586 million based on our $725 million borrowing base.
This allows us to execute our capital program and opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions.
Our next scheduled borrowing base re-determination is in August and we are highly confident in the quality of the credit agreement that underlines our collateral asset base and thank our bank group for their continued support of the company.
In planning for 2015 we are focused on significantly reducing our capital budget which at $275 million is down roughly 35% compared to 2014.
This budget allows EXCO to maintain essentially flat production as you'll see when Ricky details guidance in a few minutes.
On the cost side of the equation we remain focused on reducing costs throughout the organization.
In 2014 we reduced G&amp;A expenses by 28% as compared to 2013.
In 2015 we realize fracture stimulation cementing production chemicals rentals and fuel cost savings among others.
We've reduced our employee headcount by another 15% and we're reviewing additional operating and G&amp;A cost reduction initiatives.
3 of our 4 remaining rig contracts expire during the year and this could provide additional opportunities for lowering our costs either through renegotiating rates or releasing rigs.
In December the Board decided to suspend the dividend allotted due to declines in oil natural gas prices.
We believe the shareholders of EXCO will be better served by reinvesting in our business rather than receiving a dividend.
The capital that would've been utilized for the dividend will help unlock additional value from our current asset base particularly with the development of the Shelby natural gas asset in East Texas in 2015 and beyond.
I'll note that in Shelby our returns exceed 25% and get up into the high 30%s on much of our drilling.
Turning to our assets our operational and technical teams are very enthusiastic about the upside that we provided despite the current commodity price environment.
As a result of our successful drilling completion program in the Shelby area of East Texas during 2014 we're going to be focusing our drilling efforts here in Shelby in 2015 to capture additional value.
Shelby has our highest economic natural gas drilling locations and even with our planned drilling of 22 wells in 2015 we still have approximately 230 locations to exploit in 2016 and beyond.
In North Louisiana we completed 6 Haynesville refracs of various designs all with positive results.
We'll be evaluating results of these refracs for several months noting that we have a large pool of candidates for potential refracs as we further refine our techniques.
We recently turned to sales of Bossier well in North Louisiana following our restricted flow-back methodology focused on pressure maintenance instead of production rate.
The well's performing in line with our expectations; and based on the enhanced completion methods existing in-place infrastructure and our ability to reduce drilling and completion cost we believe we may be able to develop some 300 Bossier Shale drilling locations in North Louisiana in the future.
In South Texas we drilled our first operated Buda well with a 9 800 foot single lateral in January and it had an initial production rate of over 580 barrels of oil a day.
That well's AFE was only $2.9 million.
So our economics look very attractive with payout expected within less than a year.
We had solid reserve growth for the year with SEC proved reserves increasing by 27% pro forma for the Compass divestiture.
Slide 4 has our fourth-quarter and 2014 operational and financial highlights that set the stage for our year-end reserve growth and our 2015 capital budget.
We drilled 28 and completed 37 gross operated wells in the quarter and averaged 340 million and 372 million cubic feet equivalent per day of production for the quarter and the year respectively.
2014 total production of 136 Bcfe includes 8 Bcfe from Compass.
Excluding Compass from 2014 results realizes production of 128 Bcfe or 351 million cubic feet equivalent per day net to the Company.
We generated adjusted EBITDA of $81 million for the quarter and $391 million for the full year.
Slide 5 provides detail on our year-end reserves.
SEC proved reserves increased by 140 Bcfe from January 1 2014 as production of 136 Bcfe and the sale of our remaining interest in Compass of 127 Bcfe were predominately offset by 168 Bcfe of price revisions 131 Bcfe of upward performance and other revisions and 96 Bcfe of extensions and discoveries.
Our reserves were positively impacted by the results of our successful drilling completion program in Shelby as we've noted.
The continued performance of 2 of our first unit wells in Shelby under our new completion and flow-back methodology resulting in increasing their proved reserve estimates from 1 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral up to 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral resulting in an EUR in excess of 10 or 11 Bcf per well.
Additionally our year-end proved undeveloped reserve estimates have increased from 1 per 1 000 Bcf to 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral which is our minimum target for Shelby wells to be drilled in 2015.
The 131 Bcfe of upward performance and other revisions included 67 Bcfe of upward provisions in Shelby based on this improved well performance.
The upward provisions also included 46 Bcfe from our Appalachia region based on a shallower decline than previously forecast.
The 96 Bcfe of discoveries and extensions were primarily due to 52 Bcfe from our drilling in Shelby and 26 Bcfe from our Eagle Ford Shale development.
We had 1.3 Tcfe of reserves at year end on a December 31 NYMEX price deck.
And $1.2 billion of PV 10 is outlined on our slide.
The NYMEX PV 10 value was impacted as the SEC reserves and PV 10 were based on $4.35 gas and $94.99 oil as compared to the contango NYMEX deck in the appendix that gets to $4.26 and $70.65 in 2020 with $4.50 and $72.50 terminal assumptions.
Obviously though the decline in commodity prices will impact our SEC proved reserves as we move into 2015.
Turning to slide 6 we've reduced our capital program to keep it aligned with our expected adjusted EBITDA and have 78% of our budget focused on drilling and completion.
We've reduced our average rig count from 7 to 4 as we've significantly shifted our commodity mix and drilling activity; with South Texas being cut very dramatically from 74 spuds in 2014 to 23 spuds in 2015 with our drilling program focused on meeting lease obligations.
We'll continue to monitor commodity prices adjusting levers around our capital program as necessary to maximize returns and manage cash flow.
Slide 7 gives more details on the capital budget.
We're focusing dollars on projects that produce attractive returns in the current commodity price environment add proved reserves to our portfolio and maintain high-value acreage positions.
I'll provide more detail on these points as we go through the operating areas.
You can see we're spending 41% of our operated drilling and completion dollars in East Texas in our Shelby area.
Also we're turning the sales of a significant amount of carry-in wells drilled in 2014 which helps us to achieve our flat production profile this year.
Now on slide 8 you can see a depiction of EXCO's 85 300 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana 84% of which are held by production.
During the quarter we operated 3 rigs as we continued our manufacturing program in North Louisiana.
We drilled 8 wells and completed 14 wells in the quarter in East Texas and North Louisiana combined.
We're currently operating 3 rigs in the area all in East Texas.
We have an extensive multi-year drilling inventory across this region with 10 years of economic inventory at current commodity prices and our current development pace.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes some 29 400 net acres in DeSoto Parish and 9 000 net acres in Caddo Parish Louisiana where we had almost 400 wells that we operate flow into sales at year end across that North Louisiana region.
During the quarter we drilled 8 wells and completed 10.
We recently changed our completion design in North Louisiana where we've increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by about 50%.
And through choke management we've increased the level of rate restriction.
We've realized improved well performance as a result of these changes and this is an example of applying the lessons learned from our 2014 East Texas program into another area.
Now in the East Texas Shelby area that I've mentioned several times today we had 31 600 net acres with about 84 operated wells flow into sales at quarter end.
Referencing slide 9 Shelby will be the natural gas focus area for EXCO in 2015 and very likely beyond.
We plan to spud 22 and turn to sales 14 gross horizontal wells in Shelby in 2015.
The wells that we're planning to drill are expected to include laterals ranging from 6 300 feet up to 7 500 feet.
And our average AFE cost will be about $10.8 million.
Our drilling activity in Shelby will increase our proved reserves as we add PDP wells that were not categorized as proved locations at year end.
And we'll add spud locations and reserves to our asset base as we continue to develop this area.
We believe there's potential for additional upside in the EURs once we have more historical data from the wells we drilled.
Slide 10 highlights that in East Texas 160 of our 250 Shelby locations generate returns from 26% to 34% driven by their lateral links.
These returns are based on our current 1.3 Bcf per 1 000-foot type curve EURs.
So if we can capture some of the additional EUR upside we'll of course see improvements on these returns.
This is highlighted on the Shelby return sensitivity chart on the right of the slide.
Based on current capital amounts if we move from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet to 1.7 Bcf per 1 000 feet our returns can increase from 26% to 36% for this 6 900 foot lateral well.
You can also see how the returns improve if we can reduce our drilling and completion costs -- something we've been successful with over time in our other areas.
In North Louisiana we have 65 Holly core locations that generate 30% returns and 133 Holly non-core locations that generate mid-teen returns.
While we're not drilling many wells in North Louisiana in 2015 when we do reinitiate drilling we anticipate being able to improve on the Holly non-core returns by drilling with longer laterals applying our current completion of flow-back methodologies and realizing reductions in drilling and completion costs.
Slide 11 shows our focus on base production optimization in East Texas/North Louisiana.
We continue to focus on multiple projects including re-fracturing of wells reducing system operating pressure with compression projects and installing artificial lift -- all to help manage or minimize our base production declines.
Over the past 6 months we've refracked 6 wells using various designs.
All wells had an increase in rate in flowing pressure.
So we do believe incremental reserves are being developed.
Our first refrac well was a 2010-vintage well located in a fully developed 8-well section.
This well had produced 4.8 Bcf before it was re-stimulated.
You can see the before-and-after performance of this well on the graph on the right.
This well was reviewed at year end by our third-party reserve auditor and was assigned 2.0 Bcf of gross incremental reserves.
We'll continue to monitor the performance of our refracs and gather data from other operators as well as we develop a long-term refrac program.
We expect future refracs to target incremental reserves of 2.0 or more Bcf per well.
And hopefully we'll achieve 30% rates of return at prevailing strip pricing.
In North Louisiana we're working closely with our midstream provider and expect to have full Holly field compression online in the second half of 2015.
We currently have full-field compression running in East Texas where we've been able to increase reserves in our PDP wells due to improved performance driven by reduced back pressure.
Turning to South Texas on slide 12 we have about 52 900 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window that also includes additional upside into other formations such as Buda Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
The table on the bottom of the slide provides you with our average working interest by category on our producing wells at year-end and highlights that 149 wells or so are not subject to the offer process under the participation agreement and have relatively high working interest.
Now 13 of our recent wells averaged 24 hour IPs of 839 barrels per day significantly above our initial forecast rates.
We'll wait and see what commodity prices do before we get aggressive with our program down here.
As I mentioned earlier we drilled our first operated Buda well in early January and early results are very encouraging.
We also combined some Buda acreage with a partner and are participating in a four-well plan with very positive very encouraging results from the first 2 wells drilled and turned to sales there.
We'll monitor the performance of these wells as we evaluate our potential Buda opportunities and develop a plan for further delineation.
Slide 13 summarizes our operational performance across North Louisiana and South Texas.
We've demonstrated in both areas that we can drive drilling completion costs lower and believe we will be able to demonstrate similar performance with our East Texas campaign.
Obviously achieving these results will enhance our returns.
The map on slide 14 highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have about 290 000 net acres approximately 157 000 of which are prospective for the Marcellus Shale.
With our 75% held-by-production position in the region we control much of the timing and the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 drilling locations.
We currently have drilled one well this year and plan to drill another in 2015 to appraise and hold acreage.
One well we have already drilled is offset to the best well we've turned to sales to date in Appalachia.
I've mentioned it before but giving you an update -- in the 15 months this well has been online it's produced 2.7 Bcfe.
And that's through year end of 2014.
Slide 15 summarizes the multi-year value creation opportunities I have discussed.
Executing on our 2015 capital budget should help bring these opportunities forward and enhance our net asset value.
With that I'll turn the presentation over to Ricky for the financial overview.
Thank you Hal.
On page 17 you can see how we've aggressively reduced debt enhanced liquidity from July of 2013 to year end.
We have simplified the organization through non-core asset divestitures and benefited from the commitment of our stakeholders via the rights offering.
Debt reduction is a focus of the current management team and resonated well with our bank group as we amended the credit facility.
Slide 18 highlights our debt and liquidity position.
By being proactive and amending the credit agreement we were able to suspend the total leverage ratio until the fourth quarter of 2016.
The senior-secured leverage ratio in our liquidity provides us flexibility around developing our asset base and pursuing strategic acquisitions.
The amendment also takes the place of our spring redetermination.
And our next redetermination is scheduled for August.
Based on the $225 million borrowing base as Hal had noted we had $586 million of liquidity at year end.
EXCO has no near-term debt maturities.
The $725 million borrowing base incorporates the current commodity environment and speaks to the underlying quality of the assets.
Slide 19 walks through our fourth-quarter performance as compared to guidance.
Average daily production came in at the low end of guidance.
This was partially driven by the additional rate restriction on the North Louisiana wells turned to sales in November and December.
As evidenced by the East Texas Shelby results the additional rate restriction maximized the wells' performance and were not contemplated when the guidance was originally communicated.
Realized natural gas price differentials were negatively impacted as the production sold on a daily basis was impacted by declining sequential prices during the fourth quarter and weaker than expected Appalachian prices driven by basis differential.
Oil and natural gas operating costs were higher than guidance primarily driven by direct operating costs associated with activities in South Texas as we connected wells to central facilities and other operational enhancements we implemented to improve the efficiencies of our production.
We do not anticipate these costs in the future.
G&amp;A was slightly higher than guidance due to the transactional costs associated with the Compass divestiture and other legal and consulting services.
We have outlined our first-quarter and full-year guidance on slide 20.
Average daily production is driven by the capital budget Hal spoke to earlier in the presentation.
We anticipate operation costs and G&amp;A expense to decline year over year with the sale of Compass and the other initiatives and cost savings that have been discussed.
On slide 21 you can see our current hedge position.
We have recently added fixed-price hedges in gas and oil for 2015 2016 and 2017.
Based on the midpoint of our production guidance we have contracts in place protecting 55% of our oil production at $86.56 per barrel for 2015 and 68% of our natural gas production.
The 2015 natural gas contracts consists of fixed-price swaps with an average price of $4.04 per MMBtu and 3-way caller contracts.
The 3-way caller contracts have an average call price of $4.47 a put price of $3.83 and a short put price of $3.33 per MMBtu.
Turning to slide 22 we have provided an update on the South Texas offer process.
We have made an offer on the first 7 wells in January.
One of the wells meets the return hurdles as well as the specific performance criteria as defined in the participation agreement.
The remaining 6 wells did not meet the committed well criteria due to the timing of artificial lift offset fractures and other factors and were classified as uncertainty wells.
The agreement is drafted in a way to ensure the engineers have stable production profiles in order for us to make our offers.
Our joint venture partner is only required to accept the offer for the committed well of approximately $2.5 million to $3 million.
They may accept the offer for the uncertainty wells; however they have the right to elect to decline the offer for uncertainty wells for up to 2 quarters.
We expect the offer and acceptance process to be completed and the acquisition of the committed wells to close during the first quarter.
There are 34 additional wells that are expected to be included in the offer process during the remainder of 2015.
The extent and timing of these acquisitions in future periods will be dependent on the terms and conditions of the offer process.
As such the number of wells acquired in 2015 may be lower than the 41 wells offered on which would have the effect of reducing our 2015 acquisition spending.
While the agreement affords us the opportunity to purchase PDP reserves at a fairly depressed commodity environment it brings with it a level of uncertainty around the timing of when the specific wells will be committed and we have not included the offer tranches for 2015 in our production or financial forecast.
Based on the recent well activity the ability to purchase PDP through the participation agreement and the potential upside of other formations we remain enthusiastic about our South Texas asset.
EXCO is prepared to execute on our business objectives.
In closing EXCO is well positioned for the current commodity cycle.
We have significantly improved our balance sheet and enhanced our liquidity.
As outlined in the slides we have an inventory and asset base to generate attractive returns in light of the current commodity environment.
We are strategically allocating capital have demonstrated we are an efficient operator and are leveraging our technical expertise to unlock the value across our portfolio.
Successful energy companies are built and managed to take advantage of the commodity cycles.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Hal and I would now like to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
I wonder if we can start on the refracs.
I feel like it's been a couple quarters we've been talking about whether or not this was actually pulling forward or adding incremental reserves.
It was good to see that you guys got 2.0 Bcf incremental on that first one.
Can we talk about how the subsequent 5 refracs have looked in terms of performance versus that first one? We’re very encouraged Will.
We've seen some significant multiple increases when it comes to both flowing pressure and volumes.
We're going to monitor the data over time and this is sort of analogous to how we drilled 8 wells in East Texas in the Shelby area and we monitored the program and its results over the next several months and now we really think we've got a formula to move forward.
We had some result in that refrac that are better than what we've portrayed on the slide that we've shown for that one particular well.
That said we've got to look at data.
We have one that wasn't as exciting to me.
So it's a varied profile.
I think I'm very comfortable saying that we’re very encouraged.
I'm very comfortable saying that we will implement a refrac program at the appropriate time.
When we have got enough data and we've got the commodity prices where we want them to be and we've got a large inventory we'll execute on.
So very encouraged very excited we're not going to get ahead of ourselves.
Got you.
So at this point you'll watch the first call it 6 and then once you feel like you have enough data then we might have a program in place.
Yes sir.
Yes sir.
You're exactly right.
And then be mindful that with lower volumes this year it is a little bit harder to moderate unit costs.
Can you just -- I know you guys have made some strides on the G&amp;A front.
Can you talk about if there's some low hanging fruit on the LOE side or gathering at transport side that you could potentially target that may not be in numbers yet in terms of guidance but that you guys are working on that looks potential to drop those types of unit costs going forward.
Absolutely.
I noted in my brief remarks that we've gone and actually realized reduction in cost on several services some of which are capital related some of which are expense related some of which are both.
We've actually gone out to our service providers and let me just say that I'm a believer in a win-win type philosophy where we both need to survive through this commodity cycle.
And we've encouraged them to work with us to lower prices.
Within the first few days of going out to those 180 or so service providers within like I said the first few days we had responses from about one third of them.
We're seeing those costs come in.
There's some other costs where we've got contracts that will be running off and we'll obviously be reducing costs.
A lot of our chemicals are related to the price of oil.
A lot of our fuel usage obviously is related to the price of oil.
So we're seeing some declines there.
And I will say this is my opinion and I'm not speaking for everybody but I'm saying that we were relatively conservative in building into our guidance both on the LOE side and on the capital side on the cost reductions because we want to go into this in a way that so we're comfortable with what we're portraying forward is a realistic number.
I'm optimistic although not convinced.
But I'm optimistic that some of these costs can reduce very dramatically from what we're showing in our guidance.
So I'd say stand by.
Yes we could have built more in our guidance if we were more aggressive.
But I wanted to do it in a stepwise manner.
And I wanted to do it in a way that we feel comfortable working with our service providers that were doing something that's very realistic.
We will update our guidance over time as these costs come down.
Great.
I appreciate all the color guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
Your line is open.
You guys spoke about opportunistic acquisitions I guess in your prepared comments as well as your press release.
Is that something that's going to be above and beyond the acquisitions of wells in the Eagle Ford? Could you speak to that in a little more detail.
I'd say we've looked both in Eagle Ford and Haynesville areas for opportunities that presented themselves.
We like the returns in Haynesville as we've outlined in our remarks this morning.
We do like the opportunities in the Eagle Ford.
We're obviously going to look first and foremost in the areas where we are.
We have some teams that are looking at other opportunities albeit in the regions where we are but they may not be what I'd classically call a bolt-on.
If I could find something in Eagle Ford that was outside the black oil window that we thought could generate some positive returns I'd certainly look at that.
I'm encouraged by some of the opportunities we're seeing.
Whether it's in the Buda or the Bossier.
And I'd certainly look at acquisition opportunities whether it was additional leasing or whether it was straight up acquisitions.
All of those are very realistic opportunistic ideas that we have and we are actively looking at some of them.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess just in terms of production this year I just wanted to clarify something you mentioned in your prepared comments there.
Are you expecting sort of flat quarterly production throughout the year here? And are you guys kind of spacing your well completions out accordingly? I think we're actually going to see a little bit of a bigger ramp up here early in the year as we have a significant number of carry-ins.
I think we've got $60 million or $61 million out of our budget focused on some carry-in activity.
We'll have some carry-in activity that's going to give us some pretty good volumes here in the first quarter.
A little color I was looking at our Haynesville production from a couple of weeks ago.
And I look at our Haynesville production today.
And it's up some $25 million.
Which obviously you can't see in those numbers.
But it is a real number that's a very positive up as we've completed some of those carry-in wells.
So I think we'll see a little bit of an increase here in the first quarter.
And then some flattening out and such through the end of the year.
Okay that's helpful here.
And I guess just in terms of your Shelby result obviously you guys seem pretty bullish on it.
You've talked a lot about EURs at 1.3 Bs per 1000 foot in the PUDs and the reserve.
But you're hopeful that there potentially could be better.
Cold you give us a little bit more in terms of how much production data you have on some of these recent Shelby wells? Have you got wells that have been online for 6 to 9 months or whatever it is at this point that kind gives you that confidence? And what you think the odds are that it's going to be closer to 1.7 versus 1.3.
We have our own wells that we completed in 2014.
However we're partners in other operators productions and they have several years worth.
So we're confident that we can sustain these rates similar to the other operator.
Did you get that Leo? The wells that we operate we've had online for several months.
The wells that we participate in some of them have been online for several years.
So we've got pretty good data sets from down in that area.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Firnahn Kirman [ph].
Your line is open.
A couple clarifications on the guidance if I may.
First off the $275 million adjusted EBITDA guidance which would cover your CapEx budget that does not include any of the potential well purchases from the KKR JV.
So I'm assuming there is upside to that EBITDA depending on how many wells you end up purchasing.
And also for the August base re-determination those assets are currently not included so that should help with that as well.
Am I understanding that correctly? Yes.
Both of your assumptions are 100% correct.
And secondarily as I'm looking at the gathering and transportation costs as well as operating costs.
The fourth-quarter guidance that you had given that the costs have kind of exceeded those.
But even those guidance numbers the fourth-quarter guidance numbers were lower than what you're guiding to in 2015.
And I'm having a tough time justifying you having these cost savings that you're planning and those numbers being actually higher in 2015 versus the fourth-quarter guidance that you gave.
Does that mean those cost-saving initiatives are also not included in the guidance yet? No I don't draw that conclusion.
Let's take them one at a time.
On the operating costs a lot of those costs were driven by connecting the wells to central facilities as that process was undertaken in South Texas.
So we don't view those to be a recurring cost as we move into 2015.
G&amp;A very similar we had some costs associated with the divestiture of the Compass asset that we do not view to be recurring.
Plus we have the initiatives that Hal has outlined from a headcount reduction that's taking place in 2015.
As well as some of the limited costs from a reduction perspective that have been baked into the guidance.
However we have been relatively prudent and have not baked a significant amount into the guidance as we want to see those cost come in and have a benchmark before we put him forth publicly.
I understand.
Okay and then my other question was with regards to your investor presentation back at the late I believe December November timeframe with the Bank of America conference.
You guys had kind of said that the CEO search was coming close to an end if you will with potential news over the next few months.
Any update you can share with us on what's going on there? Is the candidate that you were hoping -- did he reject it or is the process ongoing? Or if you have any update as to what's going on there.
The CEO search is ongoing and it's in the hands of our Board of Directors.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I guess we talked a little bit about the 2015 guidance not including the offer tranches for the Eagle Ford JV.
So I guess one question is -- Michael could you speak up? We can barely hear you.
Can you hear me better now? Not really.
Is this better? Much better.
Sorry about that.
So I guess the offer tranches are not included in the 2015 guidance.
I guess my question is do you have any sense for KKR's desire to defer uncertainty wells for 2 quarters? And if not how often I guess will you provide updated guidance on your adjusted EBITDA production and capital spending requirements as we progress throughout the year? The thought is we're working through the first offer process.
It's being delivered to KKR in January.
So I think we will have a better sense for the way they view the uncertainty wells once we wrap that up here as we move through the quarter.
So I really don't have a view or have a sense for what their position would be on those at this current time.
And we will update the actual information each quarter as those tranches are closed.
So we will make an offer and close on it in the first quarter.
And those actual numbers will be presented to the public from an acquisition perspective.
And we will do that each sequential quarter to provide that information.
So you know exactly what period the fall in and what the underlying information is and what we receive from an M&amp;A perspective et cetera.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just wanted to ask you on drilling and completion costs and I guess maybe secondarily operating costs.
You're seeing some savings this year or early this year as rig activity has slowed.
I guess my question is what do you think the level of elasticity is in the drilling completion costs across the Haynesville and South Texas? So if we do see potentially a commodity price rebound later in 2015 and demand kind of picks back up again for oil field services how do you think that impacts your business? Drilling rigs themselves represent a portion of our cost.
And I think that the demand on rigs is going to be obviously driven by commodity prices.
We don't see a big ramp up in activity in the Haynesville.
As far as the elasticity in the price on the overall drilling I could see it down 15% or so up a similar amount depending on what the level of activity is.
We're counting on it going down and holding relatively flat.
I would say that we continue to manage certain aspects of this drilling that we control and we continue to see improvements whether it's in drilling efficiencies or drilling days.
One of the things that's very encouraging to me is that we're continuing to work with rigs that have been in our portfolio for a long time.
We're continuing to work with crews that have been in our portfolio for a long time.
We're continuing to work in areas that we understand.
And so we think we're well positioned both just looking internally and then looking relative to our competitors as far as what our efficiencies and costs are going to be.
I think we've got an opportunity to continue to lower costs as I mentioned earlier in my comments.
And I think that we have portrayed on one of our slides where we show at current costs of 5% down at 10% down.
I think all of those numbers that are portrayed on there are very real.
Those weren't just idly put in at 5% and 10%.
That's thought through.
And there's some opportunity to get down to those costs.
And I think that if prices were to rebound in gas we'll see.
But I think that if prices were to rebound I think you're not going to see an immediate uptick in cost anyway.
It tends to lag a bit.
So I think we're good for 2015 with our forecast and the conservative approach that we've taken that it's going to come down.
And I think that it will remain that way for the year.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And just maybe one last quick question on the Buda.
It looks like a nice IP right there for that amount of capital cost.
And so is that 580 day rate is that kind of 24 hours? That's a 24 hour IP.
Yes sir it is.
Any kind of preliminary thoughts on what the decline may be throughout year one I suppose.
It's early early days.
I mean that's our first operated Buda well.
Obviously were monitoring what's going on around us but I'm not in a position where I'm going to speculate on what the rates are going to be with our location and our designs.
But I am encouraged by the results.
By both our operated well and the non-operated wells we're participating in.
That's great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Thankfully a lot of the issues I was asking about have been already addressed.
But just wanted to ask a little bit deeper here.
Going back to the refracs.
What sort of capital costs do you guys have to put in in order to sort of realize that 2.0 Bcf improvement? In that particular well we've spent somewhere in just less than $2 million or so.
I think that our target's going to be more in the $1.6 million to $1.8 million range for that particular design.
There's obviously different designs that we could use but for modeling purposes and looking at it similarly to the results we're showing on that one particular well assume a $1.8 million cost.
Okay.
I see.
That's helpful to know.
And also going to the offer process with the South Texas wells.
As these things come through I mean -- you're going to be producing wells right? So you are able to realize a little bit of a boring base bump to help with that but I think that the advance rate there is something like 65%.
How do you guys plan to deal with funding the remainder of those wells? So to your point you'll get incremental borrowing base as those wells are entered into your proved reserve category.
And as you can see we've touched on a little bit in the third quarter.
And obviously the price environment has changed a little bit which would have the impact of reducing the cost.
Our general view of the expenditure associated with those wells is well within what we would be able to finance from a revolver perspective and have that capital available.
And then you would get to your point around the 65% advanced rate on the banks price deck from your underlying borrowing base.
So our current thoughts I mean as you can see the first well that we've offered on is $2.5 million to $3 million.
There's 6 more of those in the first tranche and then we would have 11 wells for trade in the third quarter slide is to make up the next quarter's tranche.
So you're dealing with numbers that are very manageable from a company's perspective as you look at our balance sheet and liquidity where we stand today.
And if I can ask just sort of a broader question as you guys are looking at the wells which were most recently drilled I guess in the fourth quarter under that program.
Using the current price deck how does the IRRs on those wells look? Just bearing in mind all of the variables.
Let me -- IP rates compared to -- I'm sorry I missed the beginning.
What you said was hard hear can you repeat please.
Those returns -- this is Chris by the way.
Those returns are pretty attractive based off the information compared to the information that we put out kind of midyear last year.
So they're better obviously.
And what we're doing it's kind of going forward looking at tearing our curves across that portfolio.
But based off those results and the current commodity price strip you can be looking at returns up into the 40% kind of rate with current capital dollar amounts.
Just to make sure I understand this correctly given the cost of drilling a well today in that area and using the current commodity price curve which I think is somewhere about for their oil $50 to $60 a barrel.
You think you guys can get about a 40% IRR? Yes we can get 40% plus returns on those highest wells.
Okay on the highest wells.
But what about on average or I guess I should say maybe on the typical well? Is that still in that ballpark? Or where are we looking at.
You know again as I mentioned earlier we're working through the process.
We're tearing up the acreage.
The highest wells we have are in the 40%-ish kind of range and then they drop down from there more into the 20%-ish kind of range.
I think the takeaway as we look at it for 2015 and were aligned with our partners is obviously do what's necessary to hold the acreage.
We think it's extremely valuable.
We're encouraged as I have mentioned in my prepared remarks about the results of the more recent wells.
Based on what the operational team has focused on we think the returns are extremely attractive.
As you know the Eagle Ford is a lower-cost environment than some of the other oil basins.
And we'll work through that as we get through 2015.
But our general view is try to defer as much of those locations as possible until commodity prices improve.
And that's the way we've built the 2015 budget and the way we're stepping through the first half of 2015.
Okay so just a final question on that before I move on.
As far as thinking about tearing up the acreage do you guys think you'll still be able to maintain that current pace? I think it's something like 11 or 12 wells per quarter utilizing the higher-quality acreage? Do you have enough inventory to carry that forward for a couple of years.
We have a significant amount of acreage.
As we tear it we think we'll end up in that higher-quality tier.
But we're working through that now and be in a position to present that as we have a little more data and have the benefit of having the third-party engineers and various people comment on that and get back to the street.
And we have that information prepared but I think a lot of that initial acreage that we up acquired from Chesapeake will fit in at higher tier bucket.
At the current pace of drilling we have several years of inventory that we could drill.
With economic or very attractive returns right? Economic and very attractive returns.
Great.
At current commodity prices.
But like Ricky said we're going to wait before we got more aggressive with this program until commodity prices increase.
And we firmly believe that oil prices will increase at some point in the future.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'll get back in the queue.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Colin Wilson-Murphy.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
My first question is a clarification.
Given the fact that you reduced your CapEx program to keep it aligned with expected adjusted EBITDA in 2015 does this correctly imply that you anticipate out spending free cash flow by call it $100 million in 2015? That's certainly prior to factoring in any changes in working capital and cash taxes.
I think $80 million to $100 million is a fair estimate as you look at that.
Yes.
Okay thank you.
And then if we turn to slide 14 the Appalachia slide it's certainly apparent that you maintain your optionality with minimal cost to carry.
Would you consider divesting this particular presence to further delever and further add emphasis to your slide 17? There's definitely some value to be discussed about holding it in the future optionality.
There's definitely some value to be discussed about divesting certain assets.
There is some potential discussions that we could have that may consider portions of that.
And the Board because they lack the optionality may want to defer any of those sorts of discussions until later.
But it's always a possibility.
Anything that we have in our asset portfolio could potentially be for sale.
Whether it's our core area in North Louisiana or whether it's our Appalachia region or whether it's our position in Eagle Ford.
We're in this thing to create value for our shareholders.
And if we think that's the right way to create value for our shareholders we'll certainly consider any of those options.
But yes.
We do like the optionality but there is definitely a conversation to be had around what's best for the long-term goals of the Company.
Great.
Thanks guys.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
Hal Hickey EXCO Resources Inc.
- President &amp; Chief Operating Officer 75 Thank you everyone.
We appreciate your participation this morning and look forward to talking to you soon.
This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.