Good morning.
My name is Shelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO's first Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Christopher Peracchi Vice President and Treasurer you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Shelly.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' first quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide a our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Also with us today is John Wilder Executive Chairman of Bluescape Resources.
You can access our first quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these by slide number during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
Thanks to everybody for your interest in the first quarter EXCO Resources' conference call.
I'll begin by introducing who is with us today.
Besides Chris and Ricky we have Lanny Boeing our General Counsel; Harold Jameson our newly appointed Chief Operating Officer Tyler Farquahrson from Financial Planning and Analysis and of course John Wilder who as we've announced will become Executive Chairman of EXCO's Board of Directors following our fourth coming shareholder vote.
Many of you are familiar with John from his prior successes as Chairman and CEO of Texas Utilities here in Dallas as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Entergy in New Orleans both of those proceeded by 20 years with Shell.
I'm really excited to be partner with John and his team from Bluescape which is Dallas based as we develop and implement a plan to lead EXCO forward and create shareholder value.
I want to personally welcome John and his team.
The experience and the insights will get from this group will truly benefit EXCO and its shareholders.
John has accepted our invitation to speak to you today prior to the company remarks.
With that John? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</strong> Thanks Hal and thanks to all of you and good morning.
I can't tell you how delighted I am to work with EXCO's institutional shareholders board and management as executive chairman.
I'm confident that we can execute a successful turnaround and if we do we will have built a company together that is positioned not only to whether the current commodity cycle but also to retain significant optionality in a contango market.
We have a tremendous amount of work to do but we have already identified key performance improvements to address weaknesses that have impaired EXCO's relative performance.
This morning I'll cover three topics.
First I'll briefly describe my professional background.
Then I'll provide an early competitive assessment of EXCO and finally I'll discuss our near-term objectives for the EXCO-Bluescape partnership.
For those of you I don't know my professional career covers three distinct phases and includes three major restructuring and turnarounds in the energy sector.
The first phase spanned almost 20 years of Royal Dutch Shell and ultimately included the two biggest capital allocation assignments in company.
As CFO of Shell E&amp;P and as CEO of Shell Capital.
I then applied my experience from Shell in the second phase of my career when I led two successful turnarounds in the energy industry at Entergy and TXU.
As CFO of Entergy I oversaw over $10 billion of assets divestitures and investments major cost reduction efforts and security buybacks all of which ultimately helped the Entergy achieve 20% annual EPS growth and its stock outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 18 fold.
Next I'll led the restructuring at TXU.
We restructured a major bankrupt subsidiary several billions of dollars in shareholder litigations sold $6 billion businesses purchased 50% of outstanding securities reduced fixed cost by 30% and ultimately increased the operational earnings by 8X achieving the fifth best performance in S&amp;P 500.
In the third phase of my career as an investor and operator for almost eight years at Bluescape I've overseen approximately $800 million of new investments with 30% IRR.
I would like to now turn to a brief competitive assessment of EXCO.
I firmly believe EXCO retains key competitive strengthens.
EXCO is an experienced operator that's drilled hundreds of unconventional wells.
EXCO has improved its drilling performance by reducing capital spending maximizing pad drilling synergies highgrading leasehold and optimizing completion practices.
EXCO's East Texas and North Louisiana Haynesville and Bossier positions continued to improve and its knowledge of the South Texas black oil window can still create value even at $50 oil.
EXCO has reduced 2015 planned CapEx by 35% focused on its most economic drilling locations.
EXCO has also seen positive test results in South Texas Buda and North Texas Bossier and you'll hear more about those results today.
Although we have some strengths we can't deny the fact we faced significant challenges.
I will list five to you today.
Number one EXCO is highly levered.
The company's net debt to market cap of 72% and net debt to EBITDA 4.3x are simply not sustainable.
We have annual cash interest fixed costs of $107 million.
We must improve these metrics and that will take both time and ruthless execution.
Number two EXCO has underutilized gathering and firm transportation commitments of approximately $90 million per year.
Of this amount approximately $40 million isn't used at all.
This is a critical problem which will require commercial ingenuity to solve.
Number three EXCO's net drilling inventory is inadequate.
EXCO suffers from a lack of a high networking interest locations with a current average operating net working interest across the shale portfolio of 35% we're essentially a contract driller.
We need to reposition the portfolio to average 60% to 75% net working interest.
EXCO has a highly qualified operational team and needs more economic interest in its project.
Number four EXCO's drilling and completion costs are too high.
EXCO has made progress reducing drilling and completion costs but we still need to reduce cost by an additional 15% to 20%.
This is our number one objective and we will require lean manufacturing practices across the portfolio.
And finally EXCO's corporate G&amp;A is simply too high for its drilling program.
EXCO needs to book NPV from drilling of about 5X its corporate overhead.
Today NPV accretion is about equal to annual G&amp;A.
To fix this we need to improve both sides of the equation reducing G&amp;A and increasing the amount of NPV generated by drilling.
Turning to my final topic this morning Bluescape and EXCO have focused our near-term restructuring plan on four key areas: liability management portfolio repositioning cost leadership and risk management.
For liability management we will focus on boosting liquidity.
The capital markets currently provide attractive alternatives as we consider various options.
We will very closely examine all capital market solutions.
We have not ruled out any type of solution or any type of capital markets instrument or structure.
Like all good restructuring plans we're starting with our business plan and then we will design the financing plan to best fund it.
We will also attempt to restructure existing firm transportation contracts to reduce volume commitments apply offsetting production to meet volume requirements and reduce fixed fees by extending terms.
For portfolio repositioning we will explore the potential restructuring of the Appalachian Haynesville arrangement we have with the recent shale BG announcement.
We will also focus on the South Texas arrangement with our partner.
Although this isn't that crucial because we have a provision in the agreement that provides us the right to not allocate capital to that business if the realized price of oil is below $70.
We do not plan to spend any significant drilling capital under the AMI going forward and required lease maintenance spending should be minimal.
We will turn our attention and our capital to leasing programs focusing primarily in offsetting areas.
We have tremendous geological and basic knowledge in Texas and Louisiana.
We will highgrade near-term drilling opportunities and structure our development pace to retain valuable optionality.
EXCO's long-term success will require building a larger inventory of high NRI low breakeven oil and gas wells at attractive entry price and with a flexible development term.
For cost leadership we will continue to focus on improving capital and operating expenditures in Texas and Louisiana where EXCO has already shown demonstrable improvement in A&amp;P costs and drilling times.
Additionally we will look to rationalize G&amp;A as well as other costs with a mindset that everything is on the table.
We owe it to our shareholders to ensure we leave no stone unturned.
Finally for risk management we will review EXCO's current hedging program to ensure that our hedging policies provides risk structures that protect us in downside cases.
In summary I'm very excited to work with the institutional investors the board and Hal and the EXCO team on implementing this restructuring plan.
Realistically we won't achieve all of our goals I discussed and we'll continue to adjust our objectives as we go along.
But you don't have to hit every well to be successful and if we're able to improve performance roughly in line with what I've outlined today I firmly believe we'll be able to improve EXCO's valuations multi-fold.
We have an attractive portfolio of businesses.
We have abundant options in our current portfolio.
We have the ability to build low cost positions by leasing.
We have significant degrees of freedom in our execution path and we have the will to succeed.
The industry and EXCO are in a commodity down cycle from which other companies have successfully emerged.
We have extra motivation to improve.
We know that only the strongest companies will survive beyond this current commodity cycle.
Even companies like EXCO that are well run operationally can improve operations and improve them substantially.
The opportunity at EXCO is not unlike a personal rejuvenation.
We need to step back collect our thoughts and emerge with a crystal clear thinking about our strategic direction our business model and our execution plan.
And finally we need to be unwavering in our focus and relentless in our commitment to achieve results.
I am confident that the team in EXCO is ready.
And I look forward to working with them on behalf of all investors.
Now I'll turn it over to Hal.
Thanks John.
Now let's turn to our slide pack.
We'll start on slide three.
I reiterate John's comments that EXCO's focus will be on liability management portfolio repositioning cost leadership and risk management.
Regarding liability management we've enhanced our financial flexibility when we amended our credit agreement in February and we're now evaluating various capital structure alternatives.
The component of our portfolio repositioning will be to add to our drilling inventory in East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas.
We're continuing our emphasis on reducing costs across the organization whether the costs are drilling completion operating or corporate related.
We're well positioned in 2015 with our existing hedges and we're evaluating opportunities in 2016 and beyond.
We have a significant multi-year drilling inventory with over 800 locations with positive economics at prices that are either at or below today's current levels.
Our operating performance in North Louisiana and East Texas has been in my opinion top-tier.
Longer laterals increased profit and more restricted flow-back are working just as our technical teams plan for our assets in East Texas and North Louisiana.
We're realizing reservoir pressure maintenance and flattening of our production declines which leads to higher EURs.
Turning to slide four we highlight EXCO's achievements during the quarter.
We were successful on multiple cost reduction initiatives.
We reduced employee head count by 15% in the first quarter and excluding severance our cash G&amp;A expenses are down 24% from the fourth quarter.
We reduced drilling completion costs by approximately 10% and are in discussions with key vendors to realize additional capital and operating cost savings particularly as rigs and other services roll off term contracts.
We will continue to bring our costs down.
Production of 339 million cubic feet equivalent per day is up 7 Mmcfe per day compared to the fourth quarter as adjusted for the sale of Compass and was in line with the midpoint of our guidance.
In North Louisiana we completed our sixth Haynesville refrac and we have a large pool of candidates for potential refracs as we further refine our techniques and cost to improve our returns.
We drilled 13 and turned to sales 29 gross operated wells we executed on our 2015 capital budget which is $275 million is down 35% compared to 2014.
This capital level allows EXCO to begin development of our East Texas Shelby area while maintaining flat year-over-year production.
We're focusing our dollars on projects that one produce attractive returns in the current commodity price environment.
Two add proved reserves to our portfolio.
And three maintain high value acreage positions.
We'll continue to monitor commodity prices adjusting levers around our capital program as necessary to maximize returns and manage cash flow.
We generated adjusted EBITDA of $58 million for the quarter.
I must say our EBITDA was obviously negatively impacted by lower commodity prices.
Turning to slide five noting the organizational changes we've just made.
I'm honored to be in my new role as Chief Executive Officer and President of EXCO and I have an excellent executive team around me to lead the organization forward.
I congratulate Harold Jameson on his promotion to Chief Operating Officer.
Harold has been with EXCO since 2007 and most recently he was our Vice President of Development &amp; Production.
Before joining us Harold worked with Anadarko from 1991 to 2007 and during his career he had multiple responsibilities in technical and leadership roles including asset management drilling completions production engineering reservoir engineering economic evaluations and field development.
Harold is very results driven and he is a proven leader well qualified for his role.
Now regarding EXCO's agreement with Bluescape: John and his team have a demonstrated track record of increasing shareholder value in proven successful experiences in commercial and turnaround work which complement EXCO's strong oil and gas operating capabilities.
Bluescape's agreement with EXCO encompasses both an investing aspect and strategic advisory services with compensation heavily weighted towards building equity value obviously aligning them with shareholders interest.
Bluescape has agreed to invest $50 million in EXCO $50 million.
$10 million worth of shares repurchased from the company.
$40 million in the open market.
To me this illustrates a strong commitment to EXCO and an understanding of the quality of our people and our assets as well as optimism toward our future opportunities.
This partnership is a strategic step toward working through the current commodity cycle providing clarity as to who will lead our organization enhancing the value of this corporation and preparing EXCO for the future.
Slide seven provides an overview of our three operating areas.
East Texas North Louisiana accounted for approximately 75% of our production for the quarter and will receive approximately 70% of our 2015 drilling and completion capital.
Obviously this is our focused area.
As we look to grow EXCO going forward opportunities in East Texas and North Louisiana make the most strategic sense for us to develop.
You can see EXCO's ability to reduce drilling completion cost on slide eight.
We have demonstrated in North Louisiana and South Texas that we can drive our average days from spud to rig release lower while at the same time tuning our completion methods to maximize returns.
We will be able to demonstrate similar performance with our development campaign in East Texas.
To achieve these cost reductions we'll continue to be relentless in our efforts to become more efficient continuously improve our designs and methods and work with our service providers to lower our cost structure.
We must achieve these results to enhance our returns.
On slide nine you can see a depiction of EXCO's 85 300 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana 86% of which are HBP or held by production.
During the quarter we operated three rigs as we drilled two wells in North Louisiana and then moved to begin our drilling program in East Texas with four wells drilled.
We have an extensive multi-year drilling inventory across East Texas and North Louisiana.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes approximately 29 400 net acres in the DeSoto Parish and 9 000 net acres in Caddo Parish.
In North Louisiana at quarter's end we had roughly 410 operated wells flowing to sales.
During the quarter we turned to sales 14 wells that have for EXCO a high net working interest as evidenced by our 10.5 net well count.
These wells are key to maintaining flat year-over-year production.
We recently changed our completion design in North Louisiana where we increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by approximately 50% and through choke management increased the level of rate restriction.
We've realized the improved well performance as a result of these changes and this is an excellent example of applying the lessons learned from our 2014 East Texas program to another area.
Now turning to the East Texas Shelby area.
In East Texas Shelby we had 31 600 net acres with 84 operated wells flowing to sales at quarter end.
Referencing slide 10 Shelby will be the natural gas focus area for EXCO in 2015 and beyond as we have more than 200 locations to be drilled and completed in the future.
We plan to spud 21 and turn to sales 14 gross horizontal wells in Shelby in 2015.
The first of these wells was turned to sales just this week.
The wells that are planned to be drilled are expected to include laterals ranging from 6 300 feet up to 7 500 feet with an average AFE cost of $10.8 million down from about $12.4 million a year ago.
We continue to make significant strides in reducing our cost.
Our drilling activity in the Shelby area will increase our proved reserves as we add proved developed producing wells that were not categorized as proved locations at year-end and add PUD or proved undeveloped locations in reserves to our asset base as we continue to develop this area.
We believe there is potential for additional upside in the EUR once we have more historical data to incorporate into our type curves.
You can see on the bottom right of the slide that increasing our EURs from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral to 1.75 Bcf resulted in almost 10% improvement in a wells IRR in today's commodity price environment.
Shelby has our highest economic natural gas drilling locations and even with our planned drilling of 21 wells in 2015 we still have more than 200 locations to exploit in 2016 and beyond.
I do want to point out that we're continuing to optimize our spacing and lateral links across the portfolio including in Shelby.
This will impact our number of locations but we will see improved rates of return in net present values with these changes.
In January return to sales of Bossier well in North Louisiana to begin our assessment of the potential to develop the North Louisiana Bossier shale using our current leading-edge drilling completion and flow back techniques is shown on slide 11.
This new well design has significantly outperformed our 2010 vantage Bossier wells.
Based on the enhanced method existing in-place infrastructure and our ability to reduce drilling completion cost we believe we can develop some 300 Bossier shale drilling locations in North Louisiana in the future based on 4 300 foot lateral lengths.
I will note that all of our Bossier locations we identified are held by production from other formations.
As I noted a moment ago if we decided to develop this opportunity using 7 500 foot cross-unit laterals and in turn adjusted spacing it will further enhance our economics as demonstrated by the breakeven natural gas price roll forward depicted on the slide.
Slide 12 highlights the success of our recent refrac activities.
Through January we refraced six wells using various designs and treatment techniques in both fully-developed units and single well units – it's a key point.
We've tested both fully developed units and single well units.
We saw on average 4X increases in both production and flowing pressures.
Now the key to a successful refrac is to develop a technical cost effective design that re-stimulates the most footage across the lateral length.
This requires an appropriate diverting agent.
Services providers are continuing to work on refining such a program.
Tracers and pressure monitoring indicate we've improved our diverting technique but there remains room for additional enhancement.
We will continue to monitor the performance of our refracs gather data from other operators and develop our long-term refrac program.
We expect future refracs to target incremental reserves of two or more Bcf per well and a greater than 20% ROR at prevailing strip pricing with a 25% EUR improvement.
With cost improvements our rates of return should exceed 30%.
Turning to South Texas on slide 13 we have approximately 53 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window that also includes additional upside in other formations including Buda Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
During the first quarter we drilled seven horizontal wells and turned to sales 15 wells.
Moving forward we expect significantly reduce spending in our AMI area.
As John noted we're not required to drill at current oil prices so we'll only spend drilling dollars here that meets certain leasehold obligations.
Turning to the Buda we drilled our first operated Buda well with a 9 800 foot single lateral in January.
We had an IP rate 24-hour of over 580 barrels of oil per day and the well was still producing 435 barrels per day at quarter end.
Based on this success we're currently drilling an additional Buda well.
Assuming a successful second well we expect to drill two additional Buda wells later in the year as we swap out of some lower working interest drilling.
We'll monitor the performance of these wells as we evaluate future potential Buda locations and develop a plan for further delineation.
The map on slide 14 highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have approximately 290 000 net acres some 150 000 of which are prospective for the Marcellus shale.
With our 75% held by production position in the region we control much of the timing of the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 map drilling locations.
We've drilled one well and expected to drill another during 2015 to appraise and hold acreage.
With the one well already drilled offset to the best well we have turned to sales to-date in our Appalachia region.
But let's be candid our Appalachia development remains on hold as our price realizations in the region are unacceptable.
I'll now turn the presentation over to Ricky Burnett for the financial overview.
Ricky? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks Hal.
Slide 16 walks through our first quarter 2015 performance as compared to our fourth quarter and first quarter of 2014.
Average daily production came in essentially flat as compared to the fourth quarter.
However when you remove the impact of the MLP we previously owned a 25% interest in production increased sequentially by 7 million per day.
We saw savings in lease operating expenses as they decrease by approximately $1 million from the fourth quarter and are confident we will see further reductions as we move into the second quarter.
We have seen declines in production and ad valorem taxes consistent with the decline in commodity prices.
As discussed previously by both John and Hal we have made cost reductions a strategic focus which is paramount to the success of the organization.
We're pleased to see a sequential decline in our G&amp;A cost of approximately $24 million when you exclude this one-time severance cost and 31% from the first quarter of 2014.
However we recognized there is significant work to be done on all costs inclusive of G&amp;A which have to be lower to compete in the current environment.
Our cash interest expense were consistent with the prior quarter as presented on slide 19.
Slide 17 walks through our first quarter performance as compared to guidance and provides our second quarter and previously provided full year 2015 guidance.
Average daily production came in right at the midpoint of guidance.
Natural gas was at the high-end of the range primarily as a result of our East Texas and North Louisiana-based production outperforming our forecast.
The 2014 Shelby wells continue to produce excellent results.
This was partially offset by lower oil production as a result of additional downtime for the commissioning of the final central facility and offset frac activities.
Realized oil differentials were negatively impacted by a very tight LLS to WTI spread during the early part of the quarter.
Lease operating expenses were slightly higher than guidance primarily driven by items we consider to be non-recurring.
The retrofitting of flare stacks associated with acquired production facilities in South Texas hooking up wells to the recently completed central facilities and workovers.
G&amp;A costs including severance were below guidance due to the reduction in force and other cost savings initiatives around professional fees licensing and minimization of any discretionary cost.
I can't stress the point enough.
Cost curtailment is essential for the EXCO's success in the current environment and we continue to strive for improvement in this area.
Growth in average daily production in the second quarter is driven by our first and second quarter drilling and completion activities and we expect to realize lease operating expense – excuse me savings as previously discussed.
Our cash flow activities are summarized on page 18.
Our adjusted cash flows decline from the prior quarter primarily due to lower commodity prices.
Consistent with the design of our capital budget we utilize cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facility to fund our investing activity.
Our capital expenditures of $103 million during the quarter are consistent with a significant amount of carry in capital and we remain on course to spend within our 2015 capital budget of $275 million.
We closed on the acquisition of three South Texas offer wells in March and paid approximately $7.5 million dollars or $29 000 per flowing barrel which we consider to be attractive M&amp;A metrics.
We have made an offer for the second tranche of wells in April which includes 10 wells for approximately $10 million and are currently working through the offer process with our partner.
As I will touch on the next slide we continue to have significant liquidity.
Slide 19 presents the highlights of our financial flexibility.
In February we proactively worked with our banks and amended our credit agreement to provide financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base while differing a significant amount of our drilling inventory.
The amendments at our borrowing base at $725 million and incorporates the downturn in commodity prices.
Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is in August.
We're highly confident in the quality of the credit agreement's underlying collateral asset base and thank our banks for their continued support of EXCO.
We view our liquidity of $518 million as essential to the company's success as we manage through this commodity cycle.
Our liquidity is more than sufficient to fund our 2015 development program and initiatives outlined by John.
Liquidity will be at the forefront as we consider enhancements to our capital structure.
On slide 20 you can see our current hedge position.
Based on the midpoint of our production guidance we have contracts in place protecting 68% of our natural gas and 55% of our oil production at $86.88 per barrel for the remainder of 2015.
Our remaining 2015 natural gas contracts consist of fixed price swaps at an average price of $4.02 and three-way collars.
The three-way collars have an average call price of $4.47 a put price of $3.83 and a short put price of $3.33.
As outlined in John's prior comments we will ensure our hedging strategy is supportive of our capital structure.
In closing I would like to provide the following takeaways.
We have $518 million of liquidity and financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base.
We have a significant inventory of economic projects in today's challenged price environment that are in advantaged geographic locations.
We believe there are opportunities to continue to add locations to our inventory through leasing and acquisitions in our core basin.
EXCO has historically demonstrated that we are an efficient and effective operator and are leveraging our technology expertise to unlock opportunities across our portfolio.
We have multiple upside opportunities that are not currently reflected in our proved reserve database.
Our hedging position provides near-term protection in the current commodity price environment.
Finally the state of the capital markets affords us the opportunity to transform our capital structure as we work with John and the Bluescape team.
As John articulated in the opening comments EXCO is an organization with challenges.
However our developing restructuring plan high-quality asset base and dedicated professionals coupled with the leadership of John and collaboration of the Bluescape team will afford us the path to create significant value for our shareholders.
I thank you for your time this morning and we would now like to take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Will Green [Stephens Inc.].
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning Will.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey Will.
Inc.</span></strong> So You guys have had some really impressive cost reductions on the well cost side specifically in the Eagle Ford in East Texas here recently.
I wanted to talk about North Louisiana.
You initially saw big reductions in 2011 and 2012 as you guys reduced drilling days.
And then they've been flattish at that $7 million level here over the last two or three years.
Is that a function of you guys applying more – or not necessarily more science but applying more into the well bore or is there some sort of technical limit there that's keeping you guys from getting those costs down further? And then how confident do you guys feel that you could actually start to see those costs come down even further than that $7 million level as we look out beyond just 2015? Will what you hit at is exactly right.
Our costs can actually go significantly down but what we decided to do is to put more proppant into the wellbore.
And so as we've upped the proppant we've increased some of that cost.
We've also continued to look at opportunities to increase the lateral length.
And so we can see cost in Holly going from $6 million to $6.9 million depending on what our lateral length is and our amount of proppant.
So no we still got efficiencies that we've driven into that program and we still have the opportunities to realize very effective cost in that region.
That said we're moving to Shelby because we're going to be adding reserves there.
We're going to be adding a lot of incremental value.
We still like a lot of our Holly locations.
What we're doing in Holly though is focusing more on the base.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And do you guys have a sense speaking on the base declines there the refrac program you guys gave a total estimate of recompletes that you guys expected could be in the inventory.
Do you have an estimate – are you far enough along to know what that total plan looks like this year on recompletes or what it could look like on a go-forward basis or do we still need some time on that? Sure.
What we're doing Will is we're gathering data from both our most recent re-fracs.
And the first one we did we completed in July of last year.
We've got several that have only been on 90 days or so.
And so we're gathering data from our re-fracs.
We also have an industry group that we're meeting with later this month to share data and we also have data that we've received from participation as a non-operating working interest partner in refracs.
So we've done a lot of testing on those first six wells I talked about how we've done it on developed sections where we've got multiple wells in a section.
I talked about how we've done it on unit wells where we just have the one well in a section.
We're seeing positive results from all.
We're seeing better work on the diverting agent which I noted in my remarks is very key.
All that said if you think back to what we did in Shelby last year.
We drilled eight wells we took a pause we evaluated data for six months or so and then we reinitiated this strong development program that we have a lot of confidence in.
So as we gather data it's very likely that we could do some more refracs in the latter part of this year and we substitute some of our precious capital from some of our other projects to do that.
We're very conscious of managing our capital spend this year.
That said I would fully anticipate a development program next year but the aggressiveness of that remains to be seen Will.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.].
Your line is now open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just looking through the slides here in your prepared comments you talked about there's potentially the opportunity to restructure the South Texas participation agreement.
But I also realize it's not receiving a lot of drilling capital right now and is not a core focus of you all.
So I just wonder given that lower commodity prices and reduced drilling activity do you feel less urgency to restructure that now or more urgency to restructure that participation agreement? No clearly it's an area that we're cognizant of.
We think there's some things that could be done there to make the arrangement better for both parties but as you look at the organization and the things that we're spending the majority of our time on that's not something that we feel an urgency to address now.
We're working on the capital budget and some of the other things that we're touched on in the remarks.
So that's an area that we continue to have dialog.
We think the asset performs very very well even in the challenged price environment but it is not something that's at the top of the list.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And you all maintained your 2015 oil guidance full year.
You had lower volumes in Q1 due to downtime in South Texas but I guess there is also some additional volumes coming from the wells you purchased in the Eagle Ford.
So is the buyout wells are those offsetting the oil miss that you all had relative to guidance in Q1? Or how should we think about your oil trajectory throughout the year? No remember when we put guidance together it excludes the buybacks from those offer wells the three that I alluded to in my comments.
The makeup to get to your full year guidance is essentially coming from the Buda production that we have and we're in the process of – we had drilled some wells with a higher working interest than were originally in the budget is those turned to sales.
But it does not contemplate the buyback opportunities from KKR in those guidance numbers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just maybe last one if I could squeeze one in would be...
Sure.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Is there any way you can just quantify the impact of shut-in volumes and downtime in South Texas? I think you've provided numbers in the past on a quarterly basis so I was wondering if there's any way you could quantify that for Q1? I don't have that information in front of me.
That's something we'll have to look at the information and be back in touch.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Sounds good.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time.
The next question comes from Leo Mariani [RBC Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Could you talk about what your average EURs are in the Eagle Ford in terms of what your third-party reserve engineers were booking at year end? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hold on a minute Leo we're just digging that up.
I think we've got a range Leo and that range is from less than 400 000 to more than 500 000.
And we haven't come up with what I'd say is our absolute go forward number on that.
But as far as the averages but I would say it's as much is in excess of 500 000 and some it's below 400 000.
Hal do you have some more color on that? That's pretty accurate.
That's good.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Okay.
And are those the third-party reserve engineer numbers or are those EXCO's numbers? Those are third-party reserve engineer numbers.
Okay.
You guys obviously discussed enhancing liquidity at EXCO but at the same time I think you guys also talked about trying to increase working interest through potential incremental leasehold acquisitions or just outright acquisitions.
Can you kind of talk about those two which do seem to be a bit juxtaposed given that you'll likely have to spend some money to pick up new leasehold? We think that we can go out and buy some leases today at relatively low prices.
Frankly the market in some of the areas we're looking at is really down from where it was months and years ago.
And so we think it'll have a minimal impact.
We actually may re-tool some of our capital program to progress some of those.
So we're very conscious of liquidity.
We're also very conscious of increasing our net interest.
So I know it may sound like its juxtaposition with that said we're going to manage to that matter.
And so I feel confident that we'll maintain a significant level of liquidity and at the same time we will be able to grow some of our network and interest.
Okay.
Because at the same time it sounds like you guys are pulling back on Eagle Ford drilling here.
So I guess is that what's going to make room for that is essentially what you're saying? That is one of the opportunities for sure.
And when I say we're pulling back on Eagle Ford drilling we may not be drilling as much in the AMI but we still have a couple of opportunities down there both in the Eagle Ford on wells that are not subject to participation agreement we also have some Buda opportunities that we're going to drill.
And so – again Leo we're going to manage our capital.
We're going to manage our cash flow.
We're going to manage our liquidity.
And we're going to ensure that we come in with numbers that are appropriate for where we are in this cycle.
All right.
I think also in your prepared comments you guys talked about sort of utilizing the capital markets to help EXCO transform the capital structure.
Could you guys elaborate that a little bit more in terms of what options you may be looking at? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo right now we're currently evaluating all those options.
As you've seen the markets relatively receptive to companies similar to us as they've explored the capital markets and that's currently being looked at.
With John and his team and at the appropriate time we will back in front of the investors and walk through our thoughts on that topic.
Okay.
I guess with respect to the JVs with BG is there any change of control provision on those JVs with Shell purchasing them? At the corporate level no.
If there were an asset sale done yes there is a change of control.
Lanny do you want to elaborate on that? Vice President &amp; General Counsel</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean as Hal said at the corporate level at the BG level the answer is no.
We do have a pref right if BG were to elect to sell discrete assets or parts of a joint venture.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Vice President &amp; General Counsel</span></strong> Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Megan Repine [FBR Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Megan.
With the lower activity levels in South Texas can you quantify your blended PDP decline there? VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Megan its Chris.
It's somewhere about the mid-20 percentage range.
Thanks.
And then you guys mentioned potential further service cost reductions from like rate contracts rolling over.
How should we think about the timing and how spread out those contract rollovers are? Some of our rig contracts actually roll-off here this spring some of them roll-off this summer.
We don't have a lot so spring summer and then there is one that extends towards the end of the year.
So we will be able to see some results here very shortly on the rig contracts and then of course some of other term contracts we're in discussions around as well.
Okay.
And then just one more question.
On the refracs since it's still somewhat of a science experiment as you're working with your service companies has there been any discussion on contracts that would have the service companies take on some geologic risk with the refracs? Internally no.
But I have read some of the results of – some of the press releases from some of the major companies out there.
So options such as that are on the table but we haven't had any internal discussions to that effect yet.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
And your next question comes from the line of Carney Hawks (45:12) your line is not open.
Just two questions.
The first is on the Shelby economics.
Can you just give us an idea as to what – do you have like what the 30-day IP is on those? I'm just trying to – I guess I'm not getting to your production numbers.
I'm just trying to make sure I'm understanding...
Sure.
How that works? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> What we're doing is under this restricted choke program is totally reducing what our former IP 24s were.
Now we're running it more like 9 million or 10 million a day and that holds relatively flat through the first 30 days.
And so the decline is really way way below what we've seen in times past.
So it's going to be relatively flat.
Harold you have some exact color on that? It seems like it stays relatively flat for a while.
10 times 365 gets you to 3.6 and you're doing a 3 Bcf so it seems like that implies a pretty low decline rate even throughout the whole year.
It is because we're really really working toward managing the pressure in the reservoir and so we're managing the restricted choke.
We're not worrying about high IPs we were really worrying about or trying to maximize our EUR overtime and our PV overtime.
Got you.
And then in terms of calculating that NPV and IRR what LOE assumptions are you guys using? It looks like you're using (46:36) 21.5% royalty.
It says NRI of 78.5%.
What are the LOEs? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> LOEs you're looking at about $0.05-ish incremental LOEs on per well basis.
Let us get back with you on that exact question.
So if you could call us later we can give you some color on that because I want to make sure I understand the context of your question whether it's LOE gathering et cetera.
There is probably (47:04) that we need to talk about.
Yeah I'm just trying to get the cost per Mcf.
So the assumption you're making that drives that NPV using the price deck you're using that's all making sure I'm on the same page with that.
Certainly we understand and...
Okay.
Let's follow-up on that.
That sounds fine.
And then in terms of your liability management it would seem that given your liens capacity and your equity you've got three areas you can focus on which is increasing liquidity terming out maturities or just reducing overall leverage.
Can you give any idea as to where the priorities are between those three options? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
In my remarks clearly as we think through it liquidity is at the forefront.
We think that's extremely important as we think through to the capital markets.
And so that will be the lens we start with as we evaluate the opportunities that are afforded to us.
Great.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from Sean Sneeden (48:02).
Your line is now open.
Hi thank you for taking my questions.
Maybe a quick follow up here.
You guys had talked about the current cap structure not really working at current levels.
What level of debt do you think is more appropriate to have on the structure at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's the part and parcel to be putting together the business plan and that will be a point that becomes apparent as we work through the updated business plan.
Clearly the debt level that's on the company and the current commodity price represents the challenges.
You look at the fixed cost nature of those types of expenditures and that's an area that we're currently looking at and evaluating.
Sure.
You guys talked a little bit about capital markets being pretty open.
Obviously we've seen a decent number of second-lien deals being done here.
How do you guys weigh the ability to raise we'll call it somewhat inexpensive second-lien debt just with your current free cash flow deficit at current gas prices? How do you guys kind of think about and kind of weigh those options? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah and maybe a follow-up is I mean kind of the rule of thumb that we think about on the debt side is probably four times.
As we think about the deficit spending obviously the assets and the underlying value that they create are part and parcel to being able to deliver that message to the investors as you would look at the opportunity for lien to incur the second lien if you will.
And so that's something that we think the project speak for themselves as you look at the returns that they can generate.
We recognize that the decline in price presents a challenge that's also why we are doing a lot of things as Hal alluded to on the proppant and the lateral links that have the ability to increase the net present value of those wells and also help to offset some of the decline than EXCO has historically seen when they've had shorter laterals and more wells per section.
Sure.
That's helpful.
Just two kind of two quick things on the...
Sure.
Sure it would be as you think about the overall cap structure and evaluating the larger plans would you say that that will eventually incorporate the 2018 maturity? Is that playing at the forefront of the analysis? Or is it mainly focused on liquidity and shoring up that and the 2018s are a secondary thought? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Liquidity is the first lens in which we look at that.
We're clearly cognizant of the maturities of the 2018s and that's the item that will warrant the appropriate amount of consideration as we think about the options that are best for the company as we move forward.
Okay.
And then just lastly what do you think the total liens capacity is right now? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The liens capacity is around $1.2 billion a little bit of north of there.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Absolutely thank you.
And your next question comes from Joe Allman [JPMorgan].
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hi everybody.
Hi Joe.
A question on the inventory inadequacy that you spoke about.
So just to clarify is your intention to just increase working interest in your existing areas? Or do you have thoughts to actually buy some inventory or get into some inventory in some other areas? We hope to plan to actually do some leasing and we do that in areas where we'd have high working interest.
We're going to evaluate what opportunities may come across our desk as far as acquisitions.
So we'll look at those.
We'll look at our restructuring programs and opportunities that may exist there under some of our existing joint ventures or partnerships and all things are open Joe.
I mean – but I'd say that we're definitely going to be looking at leasing some additional land like I referenced earlier.
Okay.
And then just to clarify that is that additional land in your existing areas or are you also including other areas outside of your existing operations? First and foremost we're going to look at our existing areas where we've got expertise.
I'm a big believer in you go where you're best and I really think that in East Texas North Louisiana South Texas we've really got some capabilities that we've really built up.
And so I would look first and foremost there.
Okay.
It's helpful.
And then just related to that can you just give us kind of your priority of your assets like what assets are going to take you forward number one.
Number two if you can just rank them for us? Sure.
Shelby first and foremost with the number of locations and the understanding that we have at this point I think is going to be up at the top of the list.
I think that certain areas of South Texas can provide some really really good returns.
We need to do some restructuring down there and get some additional lands.
But I really like South Texas.
Holly core has been a key area for us over time.
We think there is a real opportunity there from the re-frac position and while Appalachia has a significant amount of upside opportunity the price structure there the cost structure there at this point really puts it down toward the bottom of our list so we're going to look at some alternatives on how we can improve that or do something different with it.
That's very helpful.
And then on your CapEx budget for 2015 I know your CapEx budget is $275 million.
But when we factor in other stuff differences between accruals and cash how much cash spending do you actually expect to incur in full-year 2015 at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well if you look at the capital was $103 million for the first quarter and if you look at the investment cash flow it was around $120 million from a carry in perspective.
So the capital budget was weighted toward the first half of the year and so I think that's a number that will be consistent to that $275 million as we worked throughout the period.
Okay.
So in other words – I am sorry guys.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> But just on a cash basis we'll be in a situation where most of the activity was front end loaded as we had articulated so you'll not have the same lag that you have in the first quarter between $120 million to $103 million of actual on a cash versus the accounting basis.
So I think it'll be relatively close when we get to the end of the year absent modification to the plan.
Okay.
So in other words the net cash used in investing activities for full year 2015 is going to be somewhere around $275 million in your view? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think that's a good proxy for where we sit today.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the – going forward based on your current plan and based on your expectation for natural gas prices in particular at some point do you expect to not outspend cash flow? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Clearly that's one of the things that we are looking to.
That's one of the issues with the base decline.
That's one of the focuses is as we think about Holly as you recall we got the Shelby drilling plan to be in a position to generate those reserves and then working on the base decline in Holly.
A lot of that has to do around minimizing the maintenance capital that's required for this company.
And so those are currently things that we think through as we evaluate the strategic alternatives and the best place to put absolute capital dollars in the organization.
Okay.
Is there any period of time in the future in which you can point to where your goal would be say in mid year 2016 or first quarter of 2017 where you expect to be cash flow neutral where it would be realistic where you could be cash flow neutral? Or at this...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We're not at that point Joe.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We're still evaluating what our forward plans are and what our structure is going to be.
And so we aren't in a place where we can answer that.
But obviously that's a goal.
Obviously that's something that we're very conscious of and obviously that's something that I look forward to working with John and his team on.
That's helpful.
And then regarding the goal of under-utilized infrastructure and doing something with that what are the options there? There is obviously some options to talk to the transportation companies themselves.
One of the things that we've done recently on one of them frankly is we added term and reduced rate and that helped us significantly on one particular contract.
There are opportunities to see if other parties may want them.
There are opportunities to drill.
There are opportunities to just be candid with the service providers or the transportation providers and open up some discussion.
So no idea is a bad idea.
We're going to go forward.
And again I look forward to working with John and his team on what some of those opportunities may present.
Got you.
And just very lastly corporate G&amp;A I know it's a goal to reduce that.
Now with Bluescape Bluescape increases the G&amp;A because of the monthly fee and then the annual fee as well.
So is there a realistic opportunity to reduce the base G&amp;A in a meaningful way? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> There is.
That's something that we're looking at and evaluating.
Obviously as you look at the trend of this company we've continued to bring down G&amp;A.
We absolutely have to continue to bring down the G&amp;A to be successful in the environment we're living in today.
So that is something that will take place.
All right.
Very helpful guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your last question comes from the line of Steven Karpel [Credit Suisse].
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Probably for John – John you talked about in your opening comments and it's been brought up a number of times about leverage and total debt load on the company.
Maybe it's a two-part question.
One is if you look at your equity infusion why not do the full $50 million as primary shares to help with that situation in terms of leverage and add to liquidity of the company as opposed to doing 80% as secondary? And then the second part to the question is there seems to be a lot of discussion on this call around a second lien potential financing.
Doesn't that go counter to the same point about increasing the amount of debt potentially on the business? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Steven the range where we ended up working out with the company was one in which we would have been comfortable buying the equity directly from the company for a whole set of reasons.
That just wasn't something the company was interested in doing at that point in time.
We struck this balance of $10 million primary and then the remaining $40 million in the open market.
So that was just a commercial outcome.
There's really no other way to describe.
In reworking the liability for the company we do have a lot of first lien and second lien capacity as Ricky mentioned that will probably being a key part of the solution to get liquidity.
But longer – or not even longer-term near-term we have to get the debt-to-total-capital in closer line to something that's realistic for a company that has the asset portfolio that EXCO has.
I think 40% net debt to total capital is a good way for you to think about where we want to end up.
I don't think we want to have more than maybe three times debt to EBITDA.
Rick you mentioned four but I think that's probably still too aggressive.
We're not going to get there overnight.
The way we – the key way to get there is to build equity value and the key way to build equity value is to drill good wells.
So we'll have to manage all these levers at the same time and get the company on a path to a more sustainable cap structure.
The cap structure the company has today isn't sustainable but we're not going to get – we're not going to get this thing solved with one big capital markets transaction.
It's going to be over multi-years to get us where we want to be.
So John so that we understand correctly then is there a willingness on your part now as the Chairman to be to do incremental equity to straight – to add capital directly to the company? Or does that need to revolve around acquisitions? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Let me make sure I understand your question.
You're saying would the company be open-minded to issuing equity? Issuing equity just purely to increase liquidity and not around this specific transaction acquisition leasehold addition et cetera.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Right.
We're not taking any instrument or any structure off the table.
So that includes equity nothing is off the table.
We'll issue equity.
We'll issue debt.
We'll exchange debt.
We'll do second lien.
We'll do first lien.
I mean we are looking at absolutely everything nothing is off the table to design the kind of financing plan that the company needs to execute its business plan.
That's helpful.
Then lastly for me and I'll let things go – you obviously I suspect looked at a number of opportunities the last couple years.
Why was EXCO most appealing to you? I know you touched on it a bit but maybe elaborate a bit on why this was the one that you thought was the best opportunity.
Obviously there's a great asset base here but want to hear directly from you.
So thank you.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> It really starts with we like investing with companies and teams that we like and we enjoy working with and that we think are really committed to excellence.
And we really like this team.
We think they have the will to succeed.
A lot of that frankly is borne by a lot of disappointment a lot of underperformance a lot of kind of hard luck but often that is the kind of the setting that you want to have to really try to turn something around.
Secondly for us we look for opportunities that have a multi-dimensional restructuring potential.
Let's kind of put it that way.
We look for unique situations that require some commercial ingenuity that might not be required in the normal investing profile of an E&amp;P company.
So we look for situations that have financing challenges.
We look for situations that have commercial contracting challenges.
We look for situations that have kind of awkward joint ventures and awkward commercial constructs that we think we can add value to getting it fixed.
So what we try to do in these kind of settings and we just recently finished an investment very similar to this we like to try to divide and conquer.
I mean we will focus the Bluescape guys heavily on the commercial side and give the EXCO team the time and the concentration and the focus to run operations.
It's really hard to do a turnaround at the same time you're focusing on driving out cost and driving out production et cetera et cetera.
These guys need to be focused on the operations of the business.
They need to be laser focused on that.
So we'll take a little bit of their time and attention to attack some of the high impact commercial areas but for the most part we'll be working as a team and we'll take the commercial side let them focus on the operational side both of those will come together in an integrated way over time and over two or three year period of time we hope to have this business on solid footing.
Thank you for that.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Welcome.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you everyone for your participation this morning.
We look forward to your follow-ups.
Have a good day.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.