Good morning.
My name is Heidi and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO's Second Quarter Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Christopher Peracchi you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Heidi.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' second quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide a our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our second quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these slides by slide number during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Thanks to each of you for your interest in our second quarter conference call.
On today's call I'll discuss EXCO's equity and debt our improvement plan and our second quarter operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold to review our assets in detail.
Ricky Burnett will then review our operational and financial results and finally I'll close our prepared remarks.
Natural gas and crude oil prices continue to face significant headwinds.
The generally negative commodity price outlook is weighed on the market sentiment for small-cap E&amp;P companies and as a group we've been very negatively impacted.
But as we'll discuss further on this call we're amending our credit agreement with the re-determined borrowing base of $600 million pro forma liquidity of $368 million and the flexibility to pursue various capital market solutions as we continue to re-work our balance sheet taking positive steps for all of our stakeholders.
EXCO's common shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange and we're required to maintain average closing price of $1 or more over a 30-day trading period or we could be delisted.
Given where the shares are currently trading we may have to undertake actions to have the share price exceed $1.
One action that we could undertake would be a reverse stock split and if we do take this action our shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on a split which would be a non-economic event.
Unfortunately we cannot control the markets for commodity prices.
However what we can control are the decisions EXCO makes in its current commodity price environment and the execution of our strategy.
We're implementing our business plan getting back to basic for benchmarking to help us with managing LOE G&amp;A and where we spend our capital and building upon our strength and abilities which include drilling and completing economic well and enhancing their deliverability.
I'm confident we have that plan the assets and the people to transform EXCO as we move into the future.
But remember while we all expect and demand results in the short term the complete transformation will require time.
And our goal through the transformation and beyond is to create value for all of our stakeholders.
Turning to slide three.
I will provide an overview of EXCO's strategic plan that has 6 key focus areas with 10 improvement plan components.
Remember that John Wilder laid the framework for these in last quarter's call.
Liability management is our first focus area.
Improvement plan number one: we have the opportunity to improve our debt structure by potentially issuing term debt to enhance liquidity and maturity and provide financial flexibility and stability and implement our business plan.
Improvement plan number two: we're working with our gathering and transportation providers.
We plan on utilizing our expected future volumes to reduce our near-term range by extending term and we're also reviewing other rate reduction solutions.
Operational performance is our second focus area and we have two specific improvement plans associated with this operational performance.
Improvement plan number three: improving our drilling and completion or D&amp;C performance will improve our capital returns by focusing on best practices D&amp;C efficiencies and leveraging service cost reductions.
Improvement plan number four: we'll continue to reduce G&amp;A and operational costs which will improve our corporate returns.
Our second quarter G&amp;A spending came in $1.8 million or 13% below our forecast.
Capital deployment is the third focus area.
Improvement plan number five regarding capital deployment entails making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across the left and right side of the balance sheet to ensure we achieve the highest returns and best use of our capital.
As we drill we'll be allocating capital one well at a time and if we're not realizing the returns we need we'll slow down or as appropriate stop drilling until we can enhance our result and achieve our target returns.
Our fourth focus area involves risk management and the improvement plan associated with risk management involves executing a long-term rolling hedging strategy with 100% PDP and 30% PUD hedge targets to protect the principal invested and returns on the capital we deploy.
Hedging up to five years will allow us to protect approximately 85% of our principal.
Portfolio repositioning is our fifth focus area and improvement plan number seven involves creating value through the drill bit.
We'll no longer focus on acquiring PDP and we'll utilize proceeds from selling certain of our PDP as a source of liquidity per capital deployment.
Improvement plan number eight.
We need to increase our inventory of net drillable location through leasing an undeveloped acreage acquisitions in the areas where we have a competitive advantage.
A primary focus area for us will be in East Texas and North Louisiana.
Performance management is focus area number six.
And to support implementing improvement plan number nine regarding performance management we have employed a consulting group to help us with benchmarking as well as enhancing processes around accountability so we can achieve higher performance and deliver the returns on the capital deployed.
And finally I have improvement plan item number 10.
John Wilder serving as Executive Chairman and our board members with their significant equity position are aligned and will ensure that management is held accountable for delivering high performance.
EXCO and Bluescape developed this plan over the past few months and we've already executed with positive results as highlighted on slide four.
We're enhancing our financial flexibility by amending our credit agreement in connection with our semi-annual borrowing base redetermination.
Pro forma for the amendment we have liquidity of $368 million and the flexibility to pursue various capital market solutions.
In addition to further enhanced liquidity we're evaluating other transactions including asset sales to provide additional cash and financial flexibility to implement our plans.
We successfully renegotiated a firm transportation contract that result in annual transportation savings of approximately $9 million.
We increased our proved undeveloped East Texas Shelby Haynesville EUR about 15% from 1.3 Bcf at year-end to 1.5 Bcf for a 1 000 lateral feet today and we believe we can realize additional increases to our EURs.
We reduced G&amp;A by 21% from $14 million in the first quarter to $11 million in the second quarter and came in below the low end of our guidance.
We started implementing our revised hedging policy as we look to protect 85% of our new wells values.
We increased our 2015 capital budget by $25 million to pursue leasing opportunities and we've leased 11 000 net acres in Zavala County Texas.
We're benchmarking our performance relative to high performing peers and John Wilders and our board are actively involved in the oversight of EXCO.
We're working very well together.
And over this quarter we have improved our safety results with statistics better than the industry averages.
I'll now turn the call over to Harold to review our assets.
Thanks Hal.
The focus of my remarks today will be to walk through our assets and to highlight how our East Texas area will be the primary growth engine for EXCO.
On slide six panel one provides an overview of EXCO's asset base including land current drilling activity level production and reserves by area.
Our East Texas North Louisiana area represents 75% of our current production and is the key focus area in our development plan.
Shelby and Holly are operating areas within East Texas North Louisiana and then the Eagle Ford and Buda are located in South Texas.
Moving to slide seven we provide a deeper dive into our Shelby area located in East Texas portion of the play located in San Augustine Nacogdoches and Shelby counties.
The Shelby area is the most important part of our portfolio from a growth perspective.
Table one lists the key metrics of this area and the key 2015 development points.
In 2014 our team drilled eight key wells in this area with a modified plan that included more proppant more restricted flowback and longer laterals.
We've been – we were very pleased with these results as this modification was a breakthrough in performance.
Our 2015 program was then designed to replicate this success and our 2016 through 2019 plan includes the full development of this asset.
In the production plot in panel three you can see the impact of the eight-well program on our late 2014 and early 2015 production.
Our history of drilling and completion improvements in East Texas is illustrated on slide eight.
Our team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies as highlighted in panel one.
And in fact two of our most recent wells in the last month have been drilled in less than 40 days.
That's 40 days from spud to rig release.
Panel four demonstrates our commitment to higher profit loadings as we are currently completing wells with 2 700 pounds per foot which is a major change from our historical completion methodology.
With moving to full development we fully expect to improve our cycle times.
The table on slide nine compares three of our wells in East Texas to wells drilled by two other operators that are active in the area.
We drilled and completed the wells in 2014 with 1 400 pounds per foot of proppant which represented a 55% profit increase over previous years.
These wells support our current third-party proved undeveloped-type curve EUR at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral.
The offset operator tests in the area had been larger up to 2 000 pounds per foot and have delivered improved performance.
We are pumping more than the offset operators on wells we are currently completing at 2 700 pounds per foot and our expectation is that this will further improve our well results and EURs.
Slide 10 demonstrates the improvements in EURs that we have already realized in East Texas.
We use productivity index versus cumulative production to measure productivity of rate restricted wells and grade well performance.
The chart illustrates the evolution in East Texas for EXCO.
The three curves in panel two represent three generations of completions.
The yellow curve is 0.8 Bcf per 1 000; the orange curve is 1.0 Bcf per 1 000; and the magenta curve is one of our 2014 vintage wells with 1 400 pounds per foot of proppant and this well is booked at 1.75 Bcf per 1 000.
Panel three summarizes that increased proppant is working and improving performance.
Panel one on slide 11 summarizes the opportunities we are targeting to further improve returns.
The 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 in our development program is based on 1 200-foot well spacing.
We are currently booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 on our proved reserves in the Haynesville shale.
Cost control and continuous execution are key to delivering the value of this asset.
The well cost and drilling time history is shown in panel two.
Panel three shows the movement from year-end 2014 proved reserves to Q2 reserves booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
Our planned target is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 which is very achievable.
Plan four – panel four shows the improvement in IRR from the old design and cost versus the planned design that more than doubles the return to 33% based on June strip pricing.
Panel one on slide 12 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
The 33% return is our target and speaks to the strength of the opportunity with PV-10 of $5.3 million per location and a breakeven of $2.46 per Mcf.
Now we move to North Louisiana on slide 13.
Panel one shows our stats and the key development opportunities for the area.
We are not currently drilling in this area but when we do re-engage we will pump larger stimulations and change the well spacing to four wells per section or 1 320-foot spacing.
We have additional potential in the North Louisiana region that we fully expect to unlock with larger stimulations and longer cross-unit laterals.
We also have over 270 re-frac opportunities in the area and the entire Bossier layer to develop.
The chart in panel 3 represents the production history in North Louisiana which represents our highest developed asset.
Slide 14 highlights our North Louisiana well construction history increased efficiency and improved drilling times cost reduction initiatives and more recently increased profit per lateral foot.
My team is a recognized industry leader in the well construction and cycle times in North Louisiana.
And that statement is supported by the facts on this slide.
Panel 4 illustrates the improvements we are making on proppant loading in North Louisiana.
This is an area where we fully expect to generate additional value.
Table 1 on slide 15 lists some of the wells in the North Louisiana region that have tested higher proppant loadings.
The map in panel 2 shows the locations of these tests and proximity to our acreage.
Offset operator results located in the – to the East have demonstrated significant performance over time and we will discuss that on the next slide.
Slide 16 summarizes the opportunity for significant performance improvement with larger fracture stimulations in North Louisiana.
Chart 2 compares our 1 600-pound per foot completions in the Holly area to offset operators 2 700-pound per foot completed wells.
The improvement in the EUR is significant and the conclusions of panel three summarize our thoughts on this enhanced design being a breakthrough for North Louisiana that will improve the value of the asset and provide a basis to expand these applications to other areas of play.
Table one on slide 17 highlights the improvement opportunities in North Louisiana by increasing the profit loading and increasing our well spacing to improve value.
The waterfall in panel three illustrates how we increased our EURs from 1.6 Bcf per 1 000 at year-end to 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 at Q2 based on our well spacing change and larger stimulation zone.
We've almost doubled the return to 41% by making these changes as shown in panel four.
Panel one on slide 18 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Note that our planned IP with the larger stimulation is increased to 14 million cubic feet per day due to the larger completion design that provides more near wellbore conductivity.
This improved rate is consistent with offset operators in the play.
They're pumping larger stimulations.
The wells are still rate restricted but this represents a 55% increase in IP.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
Our target economics are strong with NPV-10 at 3.6 million colocation and a breakeven price of $2.55 per Mcf.
Moving to South Texas table one on slide 19 lists the asset metrics and key developments.
We've made considerable progress exploiting the Eagle Ford and have recently had success with the Buda.
We turned to sales 15 Eagle Ford wells with an average initial production rate of 672 barrels of oil per day in the second quarter.
We also drilled our second operated Buda well and it had an initial production rate of 520 barrels of oil per day.
Our first operated Buda well has produced 60 000 barrels of oil in the first five months of production.
We had our highest production rate since we entered South Texas in the second quarter and plan on drilling seven Buda wells and three Eagle Ford wells in the second half of the year.
Slide 20 shows our drilling completions performance in the Eagle Ford.
The main point to highlight is in panel one as we have demonstrated drilling time improvement while lateral links have increased.
We have made significant progress in Eagle Ford drilling by reducing our drill time by 50%.
We have done a good job of reducing our drilling cost as highlighted in panel three.
Our Appalachia asset is summarized on slide 21.
In Table 1 you will see that we are essentially producing the whole of the asset and preserve optionality.
We drilled an appraisal well earlier this year to follow-up on the best Marcellus well in our portfolio and to hold acreage.
We expect to connect this well to sales in early 4Q of this year.
There is potential for additional upside in the upper Devonian and the Utica.
We are monitoring the industry results and we'll maintain our land position that is 80% held by production.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ricky for the operational and financial results.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Harold.
Good morning.
I would like to highlight a few key points to investors before walking through the slides.
EXCO is a company that has a solid asset base.
However it is burdened with a challenging balance sheet.
One of the cornerstones of the transformational plan is liability management and improving our capital structure is paramount to the success of this plan.
We have significant liens capacity which presents an opportunity when coupled with the trading levels of our notes.
EXCO has pro forma liquidity that's $368 million after giving effect to our credit agreement amendment which is scheduled to close later this week.
We have been evaluating opportunities to improve our capital structure that will provide us with additional liquidity to overlay the timing of the development within our business plan.
We are cognizant of our stock price and listing requirements and management is working on a plan to address these issues.
In the meantime we are focused on things we can control including cost management and improving the performance of our assets as Harold discussed.
Turning to slide 23 it highlights our second quarter 2015 and year-to-date performance as compared to prior period.
Cost reduction efforts coupled with higher production resulted in a 19% increase in our adjusted EBITDA compared to prior quarter.
Average daily production increased 22 Mmcfe per day from prior quarter due to completion activity in our East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas regions.
We are also implementing rate restrictions and other operational initiatives to flatten our base decline.
We have now been able to increase production for two sequential quarters excluding the impact of our 2014 divestitures which is particularly impressive considering the focus on capital preservation and some of the unanticipated challenges including higher downtime as a result of flooding in Texas and Louisiana earlier in the year as well a third-party pipeline disruption in Appalachia.
Our new management team is focused on things we can control including cost reductions across the board.
This financial discipline was evidenced by our cost reductions in LOE gathering and transportation as well as general and administrative expenses compared to prior quarter.
We continue to challenge ourselves internally to drive additional efficiencies and are aggressively negotiating with vendors to reduce cost without sacrificing quality.
We are committed to continuing to evaluate and restructure commercial contracts in order to reduce our fixed costs.
EXCO recently revised a transportation contract in North Louisiana and realized the full benefit from this during the second quarter reducing our transportation expenses by $750 000 per month.
The company continues to reduce corporate spending which has allowed us to decrease G&amp;A costs by 30% year-to-date 2015 compared to the same period in prior years if you exclude the one time severance costs for our reduction in force.
Capital expenditures decrease from prior quarter as a result of lower completion activity in the second quarter.
This was consistent with the design at the capital budget over a third of our 2015 capital expenditures were in the first quarter.
We have seen some of our largest reductions from vendors and drilling and completion costs including reductions in day rates on certain rigs of up to 30% as well as fracture stimulation cost of up to 39%.
Also the reductions in fracture stimulation cost have allowed us to increase the use of proppant and still bring down the average completion cost as Harold spoke to earlier.
Slide 24 presents our cash flow results for the quarter.
Adjusted operating cash flow was essentially our EBITDA less interest and we were able to increase this metric by 25% compared to prior quarter.
Our investing activity consists primarily of cash payments for capital expenditures which exceeded our operating cash flows by $20 million.
This was consistent with the design of our 2015 capital program and was funded with borrowings under our revolver.
Turning to slide 25 which details our debt liquidity and key financial metrics.
With the credit agreement amendment our borrowing base is $600 million and we have pro forma liquidity of $368 million with no near-term maturities.
Our notes mature in 2018 and 2022.
Given the current market conditions we are extremely focused on maximizing liquidity and improving the strength of our balance sheet.
As Hal and Harold have gone over in detail we've been successful in improving our well results and driving down cost throughout the portfolio.
As outlined in the appendix our target returns where we are spending capital range from 25% to 46% and we believe there is further upside to be had.
We will balance our liquidity with the operation to generate very strong returns.
We are drilling in areas where we have a significant amount of experience which reduces the risk profile of our development plan our operational team has drilled over 600 horizontal wells and has a stellar track record for successful drilling and completions.
EXCO's future will be tied to the execution of its operation and technical expertise in the development of our asset.
This will allow us to continue to simplify the company.
We will ensure we achieve results that exceed 25%.
If not we will simply stop drilling.
The guiding metric will not be production growth or EBITDA but creating value from each dollar spent.
The returns will be significantly in excess of the cost of capital to finance this development.
The new management team with the support of the board of directors in Bluescape is focused on blocking and tackling in the fundamentals of business.
Our key credit metric simply must improve and will be addressed as part of the transformational plan.
Our long-term goal under the business plan is to have an interest coverage ratio of four times and reduce our leverage ratio to 2.5 times.
I fully understand that we have a long way to go to meet these goals but our financial model supports they are achievable in the long term as we execute on the underlying plan.
On slide 26 you can see we have delivered strong results compared to our guidance.
Despite some challenges related to weather and a third-party pipeline disruption we were able to deliver production above the midpoint of our guidance.
The pipeline disruption alone calls this to shut in 300 Mmcf of gas in the Appalachian area during June.
The largest single driver of our performance was the performance of the East Texas Shelby wells compared to forecast which further supported the improvements to the type curves in this region.
We expect a slight decline in production in the third quarter due to the timing of completion activities consistent with our drilling schedule and the original capital budget.
Lease operating expenses per Mcfe were slightly above the mid-point.
However this was driven by unanticipated workover costs on wells we did not operate and additional cost to repair damage to flooding.
We expect our third quarter guidance to remain consistent with the second quarter.
However we will seek ways to further reduce these costs.
These cost reduction initiatives include more efficient saltwater disposal; increased automation reductions in contractors; the lower negotiated price from vendors on chemicals rentals and fuel; the cost reduction initiatives we have been able to implement so far have allowed us to reduce our year-to-date 2015 lease operating expenses by 15% compared to prior year.
As I previously mentioned we have been able to execute cost reductions that resulted in gathering and transportation below the low end of guidance.
We expect gathering and transportation expenses in the third quarter to remain consistent with our actuals on an absolute basis.
However they will increase slightly on a per-Mcfe basis due to slightly lower production.
G&amp;A expenses were below the low end of guidance.
Our team has done a good job improving the efficiency and quality of their work despite fewer people.
In addition we have been able to effectively reduce cost with certain vendors.
We expect to continue to see the benefits of these cost reductions in the third quarter and expect the range to be slightly lower than the second.
Our full year guidance for G&amp;A administration expenses is targeting a reduction of over $10 million from 2014.
Overall we have delivered on our guidance in 2015 and our financial results remain on track to reaffirm full year 2015 guidance.
Our board of directors recently approved a $25 million increase to our capital budget to pursue leasing opportunities in East Texas and South Texas.
We acquired valuable leases in the South Texas region and have plans to drill on this acreage later this year.
Adding drilling locations through a low cost leasing program is a key component to driving higher returns under the plan.
Our land department is working tirelessly to locate and evaluate opportunities.
Finally we did not acquire any interest in wells under our joint venture participation agreement in South Texas during the second quarter.
Slide 27 details our hedge positions at the end of the second quarter.
We have 68% of our remaining 2015 natural gas production and 55% of our remaining oil production for 2015 hedged at prices well above the current market including an average natural gas swap price of $4.02 and an oil swap price of $84.
We planned to significantly increase the percentage of volumes hedged and the term of production covered by the hedges consistent with our updated hedging strategy.
We plan to enter into additional contracts for the long enough term to cover 85% of the value of each new well drilled.
We have started implementing this strategy.
We are confident that our current well returns will allow us to execute on our plan to generate significant value to the company and therefore we will hedge to lock in returns.
I would like to turn the call back over to Hal.
Thanks Ricky.
In closing while we're displeased with our current stock in those (33:04) prices we do have motivation and a strategic improvement plan in place that we're executing on and a significant shareholder (33:11) price represented on the board that's holding us accountable.
We have $368 million of liquidity and the opportunity to enhance our capital structure.
A significant number of our projects in geographically advantaged locations generate strong returns in today's commodity price environment.
We believe there are opportunities to continue to add locations our inventories through leasing and acquisitions in our core basins.
EXCO has historically demonstrated that we're an efficient operator and are leveraging our technical expertise to opportunities across the portfolio to unlock production and reserve value.
We have multiple (33:45) opportunities that are not currently reflected in our proved reserve asset base.
Our hedge position provides near-term protection in the current commodity price environment.
We look forward to our annual meeting on August 5 and the appointment of John Wilder as our new executive chairman.
We thank you for your time this morning and we'll now open the line for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everyone.
Hi Will.
Inc.</span></strong> I wonder if we could start over on East Texas.
It looks like you guys are about 72% held by production.
I know you guys are really focused there for the remainder of the year.
Will most of the activity this year take care of the remaining lease expirations this year? If not can you walk us through how those expire how you guys plan to attack that? Harold? Sure.
The activity that we have planned our core jubble (34:55) area in East Texas were largely HBP'd there.
Some of the new acreage that we picked up we will have continuous development obligations on that acreage.
So the biggest part that is non-HBP right now we have to drill two wells per year to keep that position intact.
So yes everything we have planned in our current development plan -- we'll keep that acreage together and we'll develop it over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And you guys have kind of mentioned the hedge program trying to lock in as much of these returns as you can.
Can you talk to how far out you guys'd be willing to go at the current strip? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Will; it's Ricky.
The way that we're looking at it in the 85% number you'd look at a tenure of around five years.
You'd be willing to lock in those returns based on the operational success we've had.
So it's around a five-year term of the hedge program on a rolling basis we would look to execute.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And so at the current strip that's still the case.
I know it's been – the pricing has been down here recently.
But even at the current strip you guys feel comfortable with the returns you're making to lock in over the next five years? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We do Will.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate the color guys.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Will.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Wanted to hear more about the future of the KKR agreement.
Obviously sounds like you didn't acquire any wells this quarter.
Did you guys offer to acquire wells and they sort of – did they turn it down? And how are you guys thinking about that agreement going forward? Hey Leo.
This is Hal.
As far as the offer yes we made some offers on the wells and the offers did not get accepted.
And so those wells going forward we'll offer on them again next quarter based on what the strip is.
We're not currently drilling on the KKR acreage as the realized price for oil is less than $70.
And it allows us to take a pause from drilling.
So while we still have an obligation to offer on wells that have been on production for 12 months or longer.
We are not drilling there.
We did not spend any money in the second quarter as you know.
And the way prices look it'll be hard to forecast that we'd be spending much money there at all over the next year.
Okay.
And just kind of longer term have you guys had discussions with them about potentially kind of renegotiating this deal here? KKR and EXCO have definitely had discussions about what the future might hold.
And when we get to a point where we feel like we can talk about that in more detail we'll be happy to Leo.
Okay.
And I guess just with respect to capital market solutions that you guys spoke of here.
Obviously your equity price is pretty depressed here.
And that you guys did talk about term debt.
My understanding is that's a pretty challenged market to get term debt done at this point as well.
Could you guys maybe kind of elaborate a little bit more? I mean I guess kind of you guys waiting for the bond market to sort of reopen? Or how should we think about it? It's a balance Leo between the amount of discount that can be captured and then the new money availability as you know.
And we'll continue to monitor the capital markets.
We're not going to rush to judgment.
We're going to monitor our liquidity position.
We're going to monitor the prices of the bonds and we're going to look at the availability of new money.
And when the time is right we'll enter the capital markets.
It's something we'll be very engaged in discussions on with our board.
We had a lot of expertise in these matters.
And so stand by we'll give you information with moving forward.
Okay.
And I guess with respect to the goals you guys laid out on the credit metrics here on the call here you guys talked about those being long-term goals.
I mean I guess I'm just curious as to if there's a timeframe you guys have put around that? Whether it's sort of end of the decade or how should we kind of think about those long-term goals.
We've got some relief in the credit agreement for going forward.
And so long term we think that we'll be able to get there in the next – what Ricky 18 months or so? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo as we've laid out the credit metrics it overlays with the business plan and it's something that we as we step through and Hal made the comment earlier we want to be very clear it's going to take time.
But it's a plan that transforms the company over a number of years.
It's not a short fix over several months.
But the important takeaways for the group on the call is there's a plan in place that we execute on that allows us the ability to be in a position to have those metrics.
That's why I thought it was important.
But I want to be clear the expectation is that that's something that will take a number of years.
That is not a fix that that will take place overnight.
Okay.
And I guess with respect to some of the cost reduction initiatives you guys talked about you kind of referred to this $10 million savings here but I think there was also some kind of wording and some of the materials you guys point out which said it was kind of $10 million per year.
I mean is there expectation that you'll continue to drive G&amp;A down further as you work your way into 2016 and 2017? And just similar question on the transport side.
Obviously it sounds like you got to deal this quarter to reduce it by $9 million.
I'm assuming you'll continue to work that over the next few years and maybe just – do you have any longer-term targets where G&amp;A goes from say $50 million or $30 million as you look three or four years out? How should we think about the ability to reduce those numbers? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Sure Leo.
Let's take G&amp;A first.
Obviously as a company we forecast that and provide guidance out through 2015.
That's why we've done so from a G&amp;A perspective.
We think the track record of new management to continue to bring down those G&amp;A cost allows line of sight.
We will continue to look for all alternatives and ways to bring those costs down.
So it's not a number that we will get to and be happy with.
We'll continue to drive efficiencies into the organization as we look at the portfolio and ways to do so.
So we'd use that G&amp;A number and then we will continue to challenge ourselves and be in a position to where we look for ways to reduce it.
On the transportation matter we did enter into an agreement that allowed us to have the reductions we spoke to earlier in the call.
And we're continuing to have ongoing discussions with other transportation providers for similar type of arrangements.
So that is an expectation.
It's laid out very clearly in the business plan that Hal articulated.
And it's something that we will continue to engage in that dialogue with the providers of the transportation agreements we have.
And I'd add that that's not only for the firm transportation providers but also for our gatherer.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess have you guys looked at bond buybacks at all at this point given where your bonds are trading? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo we've looked at and currently looking at all the options that would afford us as we think through the capital structure.
So that's clearly one of the components that we have looked at.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Leo.
Your next question comes from the line of Tarek Hamid from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Tarek.
On the – as you think about kind of moving to more of a drill one well at a time hedge one well at a time model.
Does it generally make sense to kind of just get off the borrowing base funding structure entirely or is that something that you think you can still support just given the reserve base? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We think there is the ability to leverage the borrowing base.
We're fortunate that the quality of our assets allows us to do so.
We have a very supportive bank group that we've worked with.
As we continue to work through the business plan we'll continue to evaluate the appropriate capital structure to put underneath that.
But that's one of the reasons is we had looked to the borrowing base.
We're comfortable with the size that it's at and the ability to maintain that size as we stepped into the future and use those funds to execute the plan that we've put in place.
So we think there is a component of the plan that makes some sense on the borrowing base but we'll continue to evaluate that and make the appropriate decisions at the appropriate time.
Got it.
And then just on the asset sale target of $200 million to $400 million I think you referenced on the slides.
Any color you can offer on sort of timing or process there? When should we be sort of thinking about that coming to fruition? First we're evaluating sale of certain of our PDP assets and timing-wise we could envision that happening as early as late this year.
Beyond that we're looking at some sales in the out years of certain of our assets.
And we're evaluating which one of those assets would best fit the sales criteria to allow us to meet our targets and at the same time continue our program forward.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Karpel from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Given the depressed stock price the asset or the equity first hedge that John Wilder of Bluescape was going to make will be a pretty significant portion of the overall share count or the overall shares in its early controlling stake.
Is there any desire or potential to renegotiate that agreement? VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Hi Steven.
It's Chris.
The initial share purchase is just a $10 million purchase.
So the other $40 million I think that you're referencing those are going to be purchased in the secondary markets so those are not primary shares issued by EXCO and that's consistent with how we described the deal initially.
Right.
I suppose I would say is that looking at the $40 million in the context of the current market cap was a pretty substantial portion of the total company.
Is there any desire upon EXCO to potentially change that structure in aggregate? At this point in time we still have our agreement with John and with Bluescape to go forward with $10 million purchased directly from the company and the $40 million in the open market.
The $40 million purchase can be executed over a 12-month period post closing of our transaction which will be after the August 5 shareholder meeting.
And East Texas I just wanted to understand the decline in the production how we should think about that in aggregate maybe between natural decline and other downtime-related issues and whatnot? In essence the 11% how does that break down? (46:15) this is Harold.
Our overall base declines if you look at it from a base perspective we're in the mid-30%s in terms of base decline percentage.
And then as far as managing our shut-in times and downtimes that is always in these drilling programs maintaining and optimizing our sequencing to minimize the shut-in for offset frac minimize the shut-in for rig operations moving on pads that type of thing.
That is always something factored into our forecast going forward.
And then finally maybe on the – maybe not finally but on the locations or the operational areas you've referenced Shelby as your – as the growth area.
Can you walk through given the review that you've done your location counts how you really think about that in terms of – I know you – at the end of the presentation gave some but how do you think about the location count and context of the opportunity set in adequate amount of inventory? Yeah.
In Shelby we actually have some 180 or so gross locations.
And with our current drilling plan that's obviously a several year development program.
So we've got quite a bit of inventory there.
On a net basis that 180 translates down to about 75 or 76 net well with a relatively good balance between the Haynesville and the Bossier which we believe to be of equal quality down in the Shelby area.
So we've got quite a bit of inventory to move forward.
We'll note that this is a key focus area for us to add inventory in.
And so we've got brokers looking at leasing opportunities and we're also going to look at any acquisition opportunities that might present itself in Shelby.
So while we do have good running room in East Texas particularly in the Shelby area we do want to add more locations and we'd like to add more running room there.
And then just along the lines there you've done a pretty good job lowering the CapEx per wells across the board but you maintained your overall CapExes.
Is that being conservative? Aside from the acreage obviously is that just being conservative? And then secondly with that what do you think about the overall level of liquidity to run the business here compared to where you are now? First I'm going to say we always have a focus on continuous improvement and while we've made some tremendous drives in bringing our costs down I think that for modeling purposes we're using the targets that we are – we're adding proppant.
So we're keeping – so in effect we're showing the overall cost of what we've been doing going down but we're going to keep it relatively flat because the additional proppant we're putting on the well.
So continuous improvement.
The benchmarking we're doing.
Continue to look at what the opportunities might be both with internal and external sources is a key part of how we're going to go forward.
Now liquidity is always a challenge.
In this particular environment it's a particular challenge.
We're managing our liquidity through the capital markets.
We're looking at what the opportunities are and ensuring that we have the best use of our capital left or right side of the balance sheet.
So we're going to continue to monitor that at this point in time.
We definitely feel we've got all the liquidity we need to run our program over this year and next.
And so we'll keep moving forward and analyzing what the markets provide us in doing the right things with our money.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning; thanks for taking the call.
Good morning.
Maybe on the liability management program.
I think on the last call you guys talked a lot about liquidity being...
Sorry could you just speak up just a bit Sean; I'm sorry.
Sure.
So just on the liability management program you guys said – talked a lot on the last call about liquidity being the primary focus for any capital markets transactions and I guess with the borrowing base redetermination being done would you say that you guys have – your focus have mainly turned to the 2018 maturity and trying to formulate some type of deleveraging transaction? Is that kind of the biggest priority for you guys? No.
I wouldn't characterize it as that.
We obviously felt it was important to be in a position to get the borrowing base in place.
We've historically had a good working relationship with our banks and continue to have.
So as we work through the redetermination as we think about approaching the capital markets we will still continue to have a balance of liquidity as well as the maturity and the overall value of the debt the bonds and where they trade.
So I don't want you to think that we've moved away from liquidity as we evaluate.
It's still a component that will be considered as we think about the right way to move forward.
Okay.
And so any deal that you guys are contemplating would likely bring in new capital kind of net to the business is generally what the goal is right? I wouldn't characterize it as the goal.
Obviously the capital markets continue to be in a state of flux.
And as we move forward we'll evaluate the opportunities and make the appropriate decision at the appropriate time.
So I want to leave you with liquidity is still something that we think about.
It's a guiding principle as we evaluate the business to the comments that Hal made.
But it's also something where we're cognizant of the current market for new money would be and the cost associated with it and it's a balancing act that we will evaluate at the appropriate time.
Keys for the company going forward are sustaining appropriate liquidity and cash flow as well as managing our debt.
Our board considerations could include debt exchange asset sales perhaps even equity issuance and as actions are taken we'll appropriately apprise you.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then maybe just kind of lastly on the asset sales goals.
I might have missed this but did you guys name any particular asset that you're thinking about monetizing for instance like Appalachia or is it just going to be a continued evaluation of the portfolio over time? We did not.
We're going to look first at monetizing certain of our PDP but we've not gotten specific as far as announcing which are those assets we're actually going to put on the market.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas from Baird.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Thanks for all the useful information that's been shared in this call so far.
Just have a couple of quick ones.
Just wanted to get a sense for – on that acreage which you guys leased in South Texas can you give me a sense there in terms of how much that acreage cost you guys? It seems about 11 000 net acres you said.
It's about 11 000 net acres and it was less than $1 000 an acre.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
And as well what's the working interest you guys would be acquiring there? Total interest.
Total interest.
Working interest; sorry.
Working interest.
I'm trying to get a sense if you guys are going to be the majority guys there or what are we looking at? 100% working interest.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
As well as what's the royalty burden there? It's typically a quarter.
Okay.
All right.
That's very good and very helpful.
And also just wanted to go back to that liability management piece of things.
You guys highlighted that you wanted to gain additional flexibility.
So is that – should we then expect the lien capacity to become more in line with the restrictions we see in the bonds at the moment? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry; I don't understand your question.
Can you repeat it? Sure.
Sure.
I'm just trying to think about as you guys are trying to negotiate with the credit agreement lenders to increase your ability to issue junior lien debt is that revised credit agreement going to remain the limiting factor in terms of how much credit facility – in terms of how much lien debt could be in EXCO or is that going to now be limited to what we see in the unsecured bond indentures? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It'll be what the limitations you see in the bond indentures.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Kerman (55:04) from ERW.
Your line is open.
My question has been answered.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just wanted to talk again on the additional $25 million of leasing capital added to the budget this year.
Can you just talk about I guess the strategic rationale behind doing this given the stretched nature of the balance sheet? And I guess what is so compelling about the acreage in terms of what you're seeing in the additional 11 000 net acres in South Texas? Because it does seem like you're optimistic about the Buda acreage there.
So just wanted to see if you could talk a little bit more about that.
Sure.
The acreage we're targeting acquiring is in location – has locations in it that generate returns that far exceed the cost of our capital.
Now we're always going to be balancing capital spend liquidity cash flows.
But we really feel confident that the acreage we're out acquiring is going to add net locations and give us additional running room for our business plan and to meet our ultimate goals.
So we're going to manage our capital.
We're being forthright around the spending that we're targeting for this year.
And some of this is going to help position us for the longer-term transformation of the company that we've talked about in our business plan and in the transformation discussions over the last two quarters.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just last question related to this.
Given that the Buda is the highest rate of return in your portfolio today I wanted to see if you could talk about whether this program could attract more capital over time relative to the Haynesville or is the low capital intensity of the asset and therefore low net present value in absolute dollar terms a driving factor as well? Thanks.
The Buda is very very early from this company's position in its development.
We've drilled two operated wells.
And while we're very very satisfied with the results from those two you're looking at a comparison between the Buda where we've drilled two wells the Shelby where we've drilled nearly 80 wells to 90 wells.
We've got a lot more data there.
We understand what's going to happen.
The shale is very repeatable.
The Buda formation is going to take a lot more of technical analysis that needs 3D and the ability to generate the consistent returns in the Buda relative to what you're doing in the shale is yet to be determined.
So we're going to walk before we run into the Buda.
We've got confidence in Shelby.
And so that's where the bulk of our dollars are going to go.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And just one last question.
Sure.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just going back to the Haynesville I just wondered if you could talk at a high level about whether or not you think you have enough data yet to determine how successful the refrac campaign is in the Haynesville or is it still too early? Sure.
We've as you may recall refracked six wells.
We also have the date on multiple other wells that we participated in and we also have data from third parties that have participated in data sharing with us.
It remains that the diverter needs to be improved so that we can ensure that we're treating more of the lateral than the industry has been able to treat at this point.
You'll recall that it's a one-time pumping job across the entire length of the lateral and diverter has allowed treating of one-third to one-half of the lateral length at this point.
We're working with service providers big name service providers to improve on that diverter.
And as that gets resolved or move forward it's going to enhance the opportunity for refracs.
We still feel confident in the 270 refracs that we have in our portfolio but we're not going to be refracking more wells this year.
We are looking at refracking in our 2016 plans.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Gary Stromberg from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I do appreciate the color in the appendix.
It's really helpful.
Can you provide a 1P in a PDP PV-10 assuming that June 30 price tag that's shown in the appendix? Which 1P in PDP PV-10 are you looking for? Inc.</span></strong> Just overall for the entire company.
We do not provide out-of- cycle 6/30 reserve information.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And any expectation for the magnitude of the borrowing base decline in the first quarter of 2016 if prices hold as they are today – if strip pricing holds? No.
We don't have any indication from our banks nor have we made those forecasts on what that might be in the first quarter of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then finally just on the amendment to the borrowing rates I assume that will be filed shortly.
What type of flexibility do you have to put in secured debt ahead of the unsecured notes? We have the availability the limitation would be the indenture as far as the amount and you've got the availability to do so.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the banks would allow unlimited second lien paper? Based on the limitations in the bond indenture that's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
We really appreciate everyone's participation in the call this morning and we look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thanks again everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.