Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources' Third Quarter 2015 Review Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Steve.
Good morning and thank you for joining EXCO Resources' third quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our third quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in the company.
On today's call I'll discuss the progress EXCO's made on our strategic improvement plan as well as some recent third quarter operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold who will review some operations and assets and then Ricky will expand on our recent liability management initiatives and financial results.
Finally I'll close our prepared remarks and then we'll take your questions.
Natural gas and crude oil prices are extremely challenged.
Spot gas prices have been around lows we saw in 2012 with yesterday's and today's trading for the November contract seeing less than $2 before closing at about $2.09.
The futures currently doesn't get to $3 gas until 2019.
With the current commodity market as a backdrop those of us at EXCO must – we must continue our campaign to make changes to our organization our capital program our drilling and completion designs our overall cost structure and our balance sheet as we work through this cycle.
We've been successful making changes and improving as we execute on our strategic improvement plan as we outlined on slide three but we must do more.
We've been managing our liabilities reducing our LOE and G&amp;A cost refocusing on where we spend our capital and building upon our strengths and abilities which include drilling and completing economic wells and enhancing the deliverability but this commodity price environment presents challenges.
Now let me update you on our progress in the key focus areas of our strategic improvement plan.
Liability management is our first focus area.
Last week on October 20 we announced a series of transactions that enhance our liquidity reduce our debt and provide credit agreement covenant flexibility.
The transactions include a $300 million capital infusion from Fairfax our third largest equity holder and the repurchase of $577 million of unsecured notes for $291 million.
We effected these transactions through issuing $591 million of five-year second lien term loans.
The key takeaways from the transaction include: one our net debt declined by 18%; two we extended our debt maturities by 30%; three we increased our liquidity by 18%; four we improved our forward cash flow by $146 million; and five we relaxed our covenants.
We sincerely appreciate Fairfax's confidence in the company's ability to execute the strategic plan and this financing provides the company an opportunity to strengthen itself by investing capital in hard assets while we still maintain $234 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuance of new secured debt.
Other liability management initiatives we're working on include working with gathering and transportation providers to reduce near-term rates by extending term among other rate reduction solutions.
In the third quarter we renegotiated an oil sales contract in South Texas that improves our realized oil price.
Operational performance is our second focus area.
We continue to demonstrate strong well results in East Texas as we shift to development drilling in both the Haynesville and Bossier shales.
The East Texas wells we've turned to sales this year are outperforming our proved reserve type curves and we continue to work with our vendors to reduce drilling and completion costs and generate 20% to 30% wellhead returns in spite the limited Contango and natural gas futures.
Our third focus area is capital deployment.
We've demonstrated through our liability management initiatives that we're making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across both the left and right sides of the balance sheet ensuring we achieved the highest returns and best use of our capital.
We stopped drilling in South Texas due to low oil prices.
We've been focusing our development program in East Texas and North Louisiana where we've been able to generate acceptable rates of return but we'll continue to monitor the economics in this area as well to ensure we're appropriately managing our capital spending.
Our fourth focus area involves risk management.
We did enter into additional hedges during the third quarter.
But with the current weakness in prices we aren't adding additional hedges at this time.
If prices don't improve we'll absolutely continue to adjust our capital deployment organization and cost structure.
Portfolio repositioning is our fifth focus area.
We can create more value through the drill bit as opposed to acquiring heavily developed assets.
We do need to increase our inventory of net drillable locations through leasing and undeveloped acreage acquisitions in East Texas and North Louisiana in particular as these are areas where we have extensive experience and we've developed a competitive advantage.
As we look at our portfolio over a multi-year timeframe we're targeting PDP and non-core asset sales as well as sources of capital to fund our leasing and acreage acquisition efforts.
Performance management is focus area number six.
We've benchmarked EXCO and are enhancing processes around accountability so we can achieve high performance and deliver returns on capital deployed.
Finally over this quarter we've continued to improve our safety results with statistics better than the industry averages.
The company has a year-to-date total recordable incident rate of approximately 0.7 compared to an industry average of 1.3.
Turning to slide four.
Here we summarize the progress we've made with reducing some of our fixed costs including liability management transactions G&amp;A savings sales contract improvement and renegotiated firm transportation.
But more work must be done to achieve our goals.
Restructuring our commitments and a leaner cost structure are absolutely key to generating long-term value.
Now I'll turn the call over to Harold Jameson to review our assets.
Thanks Hal.
The focus of my remarks today will be to walk through our operations in assets and highlight the importance of East Texas to EXCO's future.
On slide six panel one provides an overview of EXCO's asset base including land third quarter drilling activity levels production and reserves by area.
East Texas and North Louisiana where we have nearly 100 000 net acres represent 73% of our current production and is the key focus area in our development plan.
Moving to slide seven we provide a deeper dive into our East Texas area located in San Augustine Nacogdoches and Shelby Counties.
The East Texas area is the most important part of our portfolio from a growth perspective.
We drilled five gross wells and turned to sale six gross wells during the third quarter.
Panel three highlights the impact of those six wells coming online with the 30% increase in production for the quarter.
We recently completed a Haynesville shale well in Nacogdoches County with a total measured depth of 21 300 feet which is the longest well in our history.
The well has performed above expectations with an initial production rate of 13.1 million cubic feet per day on a 1 760 forced restricted choke with a flowing tubing pressure of over 9 800 psi.
The strong results of this well unlocked further upside as it is located in the predominantly undeveloped Southern area of our East Texas position.
We expect to complete our 2015 East Texas activities drilling six and turning to sale four gross wells.
Our history of drilling and completion improvements in East Texas is illustrated on slide eight.
Our team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies as highlighted in panel one and we recently drilled a Haynesville shale well in 35 days to a total measured depth of 19 900 feet.
We have made good progress reducing our D&amp;C costs as highlighted in panel two and are pursuing further reductions.
We recently renegotiated a rig contract that resulted in a 27% reduction in day rate have realized a 35% reduction in fracture stimulation costs renegotiated other service costs and we will also realize improved cycle times and efficiency savings as we develop this asset.
Through all these cost reduction efforts we have lowered our East Texas drilling and completion AFE by 28% from 2014 while we have doubled our proppant loading.
Panel four demonstrates our commitment to higher proppant loading as we are currently completing wells with up to 2 700 pounds of proppant per foot a major change from our historical completion methodology.
The enhanced completion design will provide better connectivity to the reservoir and will enable higher flow rates with less pressure decline.
We've been testing these new designs over the last four months.
Slide nine demonstrates the improvements in performance that we've already realized in East Texas with these new designs.
Four curves in panel one represent the progress we are making with our East Texas completions.
The blue curve represents 1 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral length performance and the magenta curve is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 performance.
The black curve represents four of our newest East Texas Bossier completions with the new larger 2 700 pound per foot design.
Our Bossier proved reserves are booked at 1.3 Bcf per 1 000.
So the larger completion size is improving well performance compared to our proved reserve bookings.
We will need more time and history but it's clearly – it's clear that there is significant improvement when you look at the curves.
The brown curve is our newest Haynesville 2 700 pound per foot completion.
This well is located in the Southern section of our East Texas area and is performing above expectations.
Panel three summarizes that increased proppant is working and is improving performance.
Panel one on slide 10 summarizes the opportunities we are targeting to further improve returns.
The 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 in our development program is based on 1 200-foot well spacing.
We are currently booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 on our proved reserves in the Haynesville shale.
We are testing higher flow rates with these larger completions.
Our most recent wells have IP'd at 12 million to 13 million cubic feet per day with strong performance as a result of the larger stimulations.
Cost control and continuous execution are key to delivering the value of this asset.
Well costs and drilling time history are illustrated in panel two.
Panel three shows the movement from year-end 2014 proved reserves to Q3 reserves booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
Our planned target is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 which we believe is very achievable.
Panel four demonstrates the improvement in IRR from the old design and cost versus the planned design that roughly doubles the return to 28% on September 20 – on September strip pricing.
Panel one on slide 11 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
The 28% return is our target and speaks to the strength of the opportunity with a PV-10 of $4.7 million per location.
Now we move to North Louisiana on slide 12.
Panel one summarizes stats and the key development opportunities for the area.
We are not drilling in this area as we're currently focused in East Texas.
When we do re-engage we will pump larger stimulations and change the well spacing to four wells per section or 1 320 foot spacing.
We have additional potential in North Louisiana that we fully expect to unlock with larger stimulations and longer cross-unit laterals.
We also have over 270 re-frac opportunities in the area and the entire Bossier layer to develop.
The chart in panel three represents the production history in North Louisiana which represents our highest developed assets.
Slide 13 highlights our North Louisiana well construction history increased efficiency improved drilling time cost reduction initiatives and more recently increased proppant per lateral foot.
Panel four illustrates the increases we're making on proppant loading in North Louisiana.
This is an area where we fully expect to generate additional value.
Slide 14 summarizes the opportunity for significant performance improvement with large fracture stimulations and longer laterals in North Louisiana.
Panel one highlights the benefits of larger stimulation designs and longer laterals.
The improvement in well performance is significant and this enhanced larger design is a breakthrough that will improve the value of the assets and provide a basis to expand these applications to other areas of the play.
Panel two highlights some of the larger completion design activity.
Table one on slide 15 highlights the improvement opportunities in North Louisiana by increasing the proppant loading and increasing our well spacing to improve value.
The waterfall in panel three illustrates how we increased our EURs from 1.6 Bcf per 1 000 at year-end to 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 based on our well spacing change and larger stimulation design.
We have doubled the return to 48% by making these changes as shown in panel four.
Panel one on slide 16 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Our planned IP with the larger stimulation is increased to 14 million cubic feet per day due to the larger completion that provides more conductivity.
This improved rate is consistent with offset operators in the play that are pumping larger stimulations.
The wells are still rate-restricted but this represents a 55% increase in IP.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
Our target economics are strong with a PV-10 of $3.7 million per location.
Moving to South Texas table one on slide 17 lists the asset metrics and key developments.
We have made considerable progress exploiting the Eagle Ford and have recently had success with the Buda.
We turned to sales two Eagle Ford wells with average initial production rates of 770 barrels of oil per day during the third quarter.
We averaged 11.5 days to drill these wells with an average total measured depth of 15 900 feet and we're able to extend lateral lengths up to 8 800 feet.
Well costs averaged $5.5 million.
We also drilled two operated Buda wells in the quarter.
The three total operated Buda wells on production have averaged initial production rates of 450 barrels of oil per day.
Our first operated Buda well has produced 86 000 barrels of oil in the first eight months of production.
We had our highest production since we entered South Texas in the third quarter and we remain bullish on our Eagle Ford and Buda opportunities.
Our acreage is 81% held by production providing us flexibility in the timing of our future developments.
Our Appalachia asset is summarized on slide 18.
In Table 1 you will see that we are essentially producing to hold the asset and preserve optionality.
We drilled an appraisal well earlier this year to follow up on our best Marcellus well in our portfolio and to hold acreage.
We expect to connect this well to sales in the fourth quarter.
From an outside perspective there is potential for additional opportunities in the Upper Devonian and the Utica.
The Utica play has continued to evolve and our teams have advanced some technical work to assess our position in the play.
We believe we have approximately 45 000 net acres prospected for the Utica.
The depth and pore pressure are very similar to our Haynesville asset and our operating team is well qualified to execute on this opportunity.
We are monitoring industry results and will maintain our land position in high-value acreage.
82% of our current land position is held by production.
I'll now turn the discussion over to Ricky for more details on our recent financial activity and results.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Harold.
Slide 20 provides an overview of our recent liability management transaction.
I want to emphasize we're extremely excited about these series of transactions but it is a simple step in a process that will take many steps to complete.
We still have unsecured debt capacity – excuse me we have secured debt capacity to execute the transactions to improve our balance sheet.
The flattening of future price commodities has stressed the importance of liability management as we move forward.
I'd like to outline the transactions.
Step one we issued $300 million of second-lien term loan to Fairfax and utilized the proceeds to reduce indebtedness under our credit agreement.
Fairfax knows the company well and is very supportive of our ability to execute our underlying business plan and the quality of our assets.
Step two.
We issued $291 million of second-lien term loan to noteholders in exchange for repurchasing $577 million of unsecured note.
This allowed us to capture a discount on the unsecured notes and reduce our consolidated indebtedness by $270 million.
We extended the average debt maturity from 3.6 years to 4.7 years representing a 30% improvement and reduced the 2018 maturity by 50%.
Step three.
We amended our credit agreement to reduce our borrowing capacity to $375 million in conjunction with the additional secured borrowings.
The transaction also favored – the transaction also triggered favorable modifications to our debt covenants including the reduction in interest coverage ratio from 2 times to 1.25 times.
We eliminated the total leverage ratio and changed our secured debt ratio to a first lien-only test at 2.5 times.
These changes allow us significant flexibility as we consider our future capital plans.
As a result of the transaction we improved pro forma liquidity by $60 million.
We still have $234 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuances of secured debt including $109 million of second lien capacity.
Panel three highlights the cash – the forward cash flow by $146 million as a significant reduction in principal far outweighs the increase in interest.
Additional near-term steps as we move through the liability management process will reduce interest expense.
I'd like to stress we had no near-term maturities.
We have liquidity to execute our business plan but changes must continue to take place in the current commodity backdrop.
We fully anticipate we will be able to execute additional liability management initiatives to strengthen our balance sheet as we move forward.
Slide 21 highlights the financial performance compared to prior periods.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased $7 million from prior quarters due to 5% lower production and 6% lower realized prices.
Average daily production decreased 21 Mmcfe per day due to normal declines consistent with the design of our capital plan I'll remind you we spent a third of our 2015 capital in the first quarter.
The timing of completions including the delay of some wells in South Texas as we changed frac companies to save money and some of the OBO production that we had planned on that has not been forthcoming as other companies are making modifications to their completions and timing in this capital-stressed environment.
Revenue decreased $10 million primarily due to the decrease in realized prices.
Gas price realization was $2.12 for the second quarter compared to $2.04 in the third quarter.
We continued to be impacted by the Appalachian region which had a realized net price of $1.49 during the third quarter.
Oil prices were $10 lower in the third quarter at $43.
The impact of this was partially offset by the cash receipts from our hedging program and settlements.
A moment on the commodity prices Hal had alluded to.
Within the past few months natural gas has reached three-year lows and oil has reached six-year lows.
The average oil market price for year-to-date 2015 is 50% lower than the same period for 2014 and the average gas market price is 40% lower than 2014.
All of these things related to price are outside our control but we're not shying away from the sombering reality that prices could be here for a long period of time and frankly could continue to decrease.
We're focused on the things that are within our control and costs and the ability to drive additional reductions are paramount to this success.
LOE is 20% lower than the 2014 exit rate.
However additional reductions in this area must take place through our vendors are exploring more efficient ways to produce the asset.
Gathering and transportation we worked with a midstream provider to restructure contracts earlier in the year which resulted in a $9 million annual savings.
However additional reductions are necessary.
We have approximately $500 million of (26:24) gross commitments between now and 2022 and there simply has to be reductions in light of the current commodity price.
G&amp;A we've made strides recently and we've reduced G&amp;A 21% year-over-year.
However as a result of the commodity price and the backdrop additional reductions are necessary.
Harold has walked through earlier in the presentation some of the operational success the company has had as we continue to find ways to increase returns in the low cost environment and improve the performance of our assets.
Careful capital deployment is extremely important as we move forward.
We took corrective action in South Texas in light of the commodity price drop and it did not meet our internal hurdle rates.
We're fortunate to still having number of opportunities in this depressed price environment.
I would encourage investors to look at the appendix in the presentation for detailed single well economics.
I want to reiterate the guiding metric will not be production or EBITDA growth.
It will be simply to create value from each dollar spent within the organization.
Slide 22 highlights cash flow results compared to prior period.
At the bottom of the page adjusted operating cash flow decreased $7 million or 16% consistent with the decrease in the underlying adjusted EBITDA driven by lower production and commodity prices I previously stated.
The decline in cash flow from operations was impacted by negative working capital conversions of $19 million in the third quarter compared to positive conversions of $9 million in the second quarter.
This is driven by the timing of cash receipts and the dispersions of interest payments.
Free cash flow deficit was primarily funded by $7.5 million in borrowing and $10 million of issuance of the stock to Bluescape.
The year-to-date free cash flow was an outspend of approximately $143 million.
Turning to slide 23 which highlights our debt and liquidity.
We exited the third quarter with $335 million in liquidity.
However from a pro forma perspective for the transactions we've previously touched on in this call that would have been $395 million.
Next borrowing base redetermination is set for March 2016.
The second lien gives us flexibility to grow our borrowing base consistent with the increase in value and the underlying assets.
The covenant modifications triggered by the issuance of the second lien provides a substantial runway to execute our business plan in this low-commodity price and our primary covenants include a first lien 2.5 times and an interest coverage of 1.25.
I want to stress the importance of preserving our liquidity as we consider future capital plans.
The transactions completed this week related to liability management were simply a first step.
Additional steps are necessary and must take place.
Everything is on the table.
Asset sales joint ventures equity additional debt transactions we will explore any avenue to drive value for the stakeholders of this organization.
The company remained over-leveraged.
We must find ways to improve our leverage ratios and debt-to-market ratios.
We improved our leverage metric one turn as a result of the recent transactions to 4.6 times as of 9/30.
However the metric continues to be challenged due to the impact of commodity prices on our EBITDA.
We must find ways to reduce debt and increase margins.
We have a near-term goal of reducing this ratio to four times and a long-term goal as we execute the business plan over the next five years of 2.5 times.
Slide 24 highlights the recent quarterly results and earnings guidance update.
Oil production as articulated on page 17 of the slides was the high point for the third quarter.
However it came lower than guidance as a result of the delay in turning wells to sales in the Eagle Ford based on us making a strategic decision to save costs when we change frac companies.
We had approximately 11 000 barrels – net barrels to us related to a pipeline fill as we hooked up a pipeline to a downstream sales point.
We expect an increase in the fourth quarter from production to wells that were turned to sales and no impact due to pipeline fill.
Natural gas production was below the midpoint.
We had delays from outside operators in which we have an interest.
Consistent with the design of our capital budget our capital program had higher turn to sales during the first half of the year.
The oil differential was better than the low end of guidance.
We renegotiated a sales contract for certain of our volumes which reduced the rate by $1.45 to $3.55 depending on the delivery point.
The impact of this contract should continue to positively impact our differentials in the fourth quarter.
Gas differentials were worse than the high-end.
The differential is measured on the 1st of the month pricing consistent with 70% of our sales.
However declining spot prices through the remainder of the month negatively impacted our differential.
In addition the differential on Appalachia was wider than forecasted.
Turning to North Louisiana we had adjustments from outside operators on the gas we received from them.
The natural gas differentials on EXCO's operated properties on NYMEX was $0.58 which would have been within the range of guidance if not for the differentials associated with the non-operated gas we received.
Our non-operated gas was approximately 8% of consolidated year-to-date production.
Costs were in line with our guidance and the ranges are expected to stay consistent with the fourth quarter.
We realized the benefit of several cost initiatives however.
And I want to emphasize additional work is needed and must take place as a result of the environment we're living in.
Please note we had a slight revision to the full-year guidance for the impact of suspending our South Texas drilling.
This impact is approximately 200 barrels a day for the entire year based on the results of the first nine months.
Slide 25 highlights our hedge position.
We have 69% hedged at $4.02 on the gas side for the remainder of 2015 and we have 53% hedged at $84 on the oil side.
We continued to add hedges during the third quarter.
As Harold had alluded to we continue to implement our hedge strategy.
But future hedge levels will be dependent on development plans and the underlying market conditions as we move forward.
I'd now turn the call back over to Hal for his closing comments.
Thanks Ricky.
Want to make sure everyone is aware we've called a special meeting of our shareholders for November 16 to consider among other things the proposal to grant our Board of Directors authority to effect a reverse share split if the board deems necessary as well as to reduce the total number of outstanding common shares authorized for issuance.
The proposal if approved by shareholders would authorize our board to effect a reverse share split at a ratio of up to 1 per 10 common shares with the exact ratio to be decided by the board.
Our board will factor the current share price into their decision to implement the split if approved by shareholders.
The proposed reverse share split would affect all shareholders uniformly and will not affect any shareholder's ownership percentage.
In closing we cannot control commodity prices or the markets but we can control the decisions we make in this current commodity price environment and we can control the execution of our strategic improvement plan.
As I've said before I'm confident we have the ability to transform EXCO as we move into the future.
But again while we all expect and demand short-term results the complete transformation of EXCO will require time.
Our goal through the transformation is to create value for all of our stakeholders.
John Wilder our Executive Chairman and our other board members with their significant equity and debt positions are aligned and engaged with management.
We're all accountable for the successful execution of our plan.
Thanks for your time this morning.
We'll now open the line for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Hey Will.
Inc.</span></strong> I wonder if we can start on the cost side.
You guys have articulated a lot already there but – maybe on the G&amp;A side – you guys have done an impressive job already getting that down to a $48 million run rate on the G&amp;A side.
Being mindful that these things take time but also that you guys are talking about this as kind of a pending operation to get that down to $35 million how much of that pending $35 million run rate has kind of already been put into motion? And what's a reasonable timeframe we could expect that to be implemented for you guys reaching that $35 million G&amp;A goal? We're working on that every day Will.
We have a target to get that in place here in the short term.
By year-end you will see some significant changes to our cost structure that we think we'll be able to fully realize throughout 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then on the transport cost savings you guys have done a good job there as well.
Can you remind us on that – on the transport savings that you guys announced? We see that on the differential side on a go forward basis or will that be on the gathering and transport side? It will be on the gathering and transport side Will.
Inc.</span></strong> And are there any additional – are there any kind of other big items like that – that you guys are eying right now on the gathering transport line or was that the biggest and – or is it a number of small things at this point going forward? You'll recall we have a significant commitment of firm transportation with multiple companies.
We're in discussions with all Will.
And whether or not they will come to fruition or not remains to be seen but we are working on those every day.
In addition to the firm transportation we have sales contracts that we've already announced some improvements on.
We also have a significant commitment around gathering and we are working on all of the above every day and so I anticipate we'll have some of that done here within the next several weeks but that said I can't guarantee that any of it will come to fruition.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
I appreciate that color.
And then one last one from me maybe is the cost reduction you guys are looking on a D&amp;C basis in East Texas you guys mentioned you're targeting another 10% down from kind of the 2015 average should we think about that as that $1 383 per lateral foot you guys cite on I guess on slide eight it is is that a good kind of benchmark for the baseline of that 10% – where that 10% is going to come out of? Harold? That's right Will.
That slide eight that $1 383.
That $1 383 represents where we are right now that's the current rig rate current fracture stimulation cost.
We've got a little room to improve over and above that but that's our – that $1 383 is the reference point right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And so the goal would be bringing that number down by about 10% next year? That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Well that's all I had guys.
I appreciate all the color.
Thank you Will.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
You obviously made the decision to shut down the oil program here.
I imagine you guys probably have some wells that have been drilled which haven't been completed you kind of referred to changing frac crews or frac providers here on the call I guess are those just kind of deferred to early 2016? And then just additionally like what type of oil prices do you guys need to see before you reinstitute a drilling program? First let me just clear up we do not have any wells that are awaiting completion in South Texas.
What we've drilled we have completed.
Okay.
With regards to pricing I think we should give a lot of color in our presentation around what some of our economics are.
We've shown that in the last quarter.
We've also shown some this quarter.
Price makes a dramatic impact as you of course understand on our economics.
If we got north of $60 oil we'd have some very very acceptable returns but even at that it's not a guarantee that we'd begin drilling again.
We'll continue to look at our best deployment of capital and what our best opportunities and we'll work it from there.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess on the gas side you guys also alluded the fact that prices are extremely low right now and you guys might reconsider some of your capital plans there.
You talked about three rigs running can you kind of explain what the rig commitments are like what the extent of these contracts and what's your flexibility to potentially lay down rigs if gas stays low here? We got two rigs under long-term contract that go on into next year and one of them actually is beyond.
We have one rig that's on effectively a well-to-well contract.
So we've got some flexibility in what we're doing now.
Okay.
So is it fair to say if prices kind of stayed around here you guys may drop one of those rigs is that a reasonable way to think about it? That's a distinct possibility.
Okay.
Not a commitment but certainly a possibility.
Got you.
All right.
In terms of...
And Leo I'll add more color to that too.
I mean while we have rig commitments we're going to make sure that before we invest dollars we're going to get acceptable returns.
And so if we can put dollars somewhere else and get better returns we're going to consider that and we'll weigh in what discussions we can have with our rig contractor and we'll work it.
So nothing is taken for granted nothing is in as is is necessarily meant to be.
So if that makes any sense at all we're going to look at what our alternatives are just like we're on EFT we'll look at that with rigs as well.
That makes sense.
And I guess in terms of budget for next year when you guys think you'll have that out? Yeah.
We have a budget meeting coming up in the latter part of November.
We'll probably do something akin to what we did last year.
We won't rush to release what that is because we're going to continue to monitor the price environment commodity price environment but we do have a meeting coming up with the board in November and we may have some color thereafter but like we did last year we may delay any announcements until we really have a good understanding of what the commodity price environment is.
That's helpful.
Well I guess with respect to – you talked a lot about your transportation commitments as well as your gathering commitments.
I think in your corporate documents you guys talked about some potential shortfall payments that could have to be made over the next several years.
Can you just give us some more color around that and might you have any type of ballpark estimate as to what like a shortfall payment could be and when do those start kicking in? We have a minimal shortfall payment on our gathering that's due here the last of this year.
It's not a huge commitment at all.
It's not a huge number.
As far as the EFT goes there is so much that needs to be worked around that.
I'm hesitant to give a number.
Ricky do you want to give some more color around that but it's a big commitment.
It's a gross commitment that we put out in our 10-K and that's shared among the appropriate parties.
So anymore color Ricky? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No.
Other than just to highlight a lot of those are predicated on the capital that you deploy and the production – the underlying production.
So there is a lot of work Leo as you get into those outer years a lot of things that are likely to change but to echo Hal's point we've got a minimal amount of short-term on the gathering in BC.
I think there's likely to be some things that can even take place there as we've had some preliminary discussions and the rest of it will be predicated on capital allocation decisions as we move through the remainder of 2015 2016 2017 and 2018.
Thanks Ricky.
That's helpful.
And I guess lastly just in your slides you guys show IRRs in the Holly area in Louisiana to be a little bit better...
Yes.
– than Shelby if I look at your base cases there just walk me through the decision to kind of move all the rigs over to East Texas? It's a combination of things.
I'll let Harold elaborate on some of it.
Some of it in East Texas we're adding proved reserves.
Some of it in East Texas we have significantly more running room to get into a development program which we're really good at.
We've seen some really good results in North Louisiana that excite us.
And while we say we're focusing on East Texas it doesn't mean that we won't have some drilling in North Louisiana.
Harold do you want to build on that? Yeah.
I think it's just the commitment to keep the rigs together.
The group of wells we're drilling down in the East Texas area as we're on this 1 200 foot spacing at Haynesville and Bossier keeping that group of rigs together.
So hence the focus on East Texas to essentially help drive cost down by making that switch in that area.
And also capital just a balance of capital.
We have the opportunities identified in North Louisiana.
We're clearly aware of those and we're monitoring the competitor activity.
We actually have an interest in some of the activity that's going on now from an OBO perspective in North Louisiana so we're gathering that data as well with the larger completions.
So it's a balance that the focus is clearly on East Texas.
You bring up a good point we'll continue to monitor.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you Leo.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tarek Hamid with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hello.
On the gathering and processing negotiations you talked about sort of continuing those negotiations the next couple months.
Is that more focused on minimum volume commitments rate dedication sort of can you just discuss some of the parameters for the negotiation as you look at it? It's all of the above.
You nailed it.
We're going to look at rates we're going to look at term we're going to look at volume commitments we're going to look at how that impacts the PVs and we'll work it from every angle that you bring up.
Okay.
And we don't have any processing agreements.
I heard you mention processing.
Yes sorry I misspoke.
Apologize for that.
And then as you think about differentials rolling through into year-end I know you guys lowered guidance sort of relatively consistent on the differential with last year.
From what you've seen in October is that still a reasonable assumption? Just wondering just with the moves in front month gas prices have you seen any pressure on differentials are they higher or lower? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We clearly have seen in the movement in the front months some pressure.
We're comfortable with the numbers as we contemplated it.
Appalachia continues to be where we have our most challenged differential but we're comfortable with the ranges as we contemplated and did the math in advance of this call.
Okay.
Then just last one for me on liability management side just going through the docs it's my understanding you have about $109 million of availability pari passu with the second lien and then a $125 million of sort of junior or a third-lien capacity.
Is that a fair assumption? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It is.
Okay.
And then are there any limitations on using convertibles or equity or any other sort of instruments that we should be aware of or sort of everything reasonably open from a management standpoint? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Everything is reasonably open.
Obviously we'd evaluate the specific nature.
We've looked at a lot of structures as this thing has moved forward but it's reasonable as you're thinking about to think the toolkit is essentially wide open from a variety of structures that maybe out there that we would contemplate as we move forward on the liability management front.
Got it.
It's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of (47:56).
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Two questions on the liability management side.
One do you have any assets whether that be unproven acreage or JV interest in whatsoever that are not pledged to your borrowing base or your second-lien term loans that could be sold without reducing your liquidity? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We have some minimal assets but the majority of the assets are included in the basket and are covered by the second lien and the first lien.
Okay.
And the second question is as you're thinking about your capital expenditure plans in the current commodity price environment how are you looking at your IRRs either at the well versus using cash to purchase some of your bonds at these distressed levels that would not only reduce your leverage as well as reduce your interest expense and enhance your free cash flow how are you thinking about that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No as Harold alluded in his comments every dollar that we spend will be – that assumption will be gone through whether it's on the buyback debt or deploy capital or other alternatives that are afforded to us from acquisitions of leases et cetera.
So that's clearly a decision that's being made real time as we evaluate the market conditions and will continue to be made as we move through the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
We're very mindful of where the debt trades we're very mindful of the commitments this company has from transportation and some of the other areas.
So we think there is an extreme value to be in a secured position as we move forward through the rest of 2015 and into 2016.
And then finally could you remind us what's your RP capacity to buyback any junior debt? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
On the restricted payment piece in light of the second lien it's fair to think of it is around $140 million.
That's $140 million cash not the notional amount of debt but the cash.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Cash.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
$140 million depending on some of the other baskets so $140 million $150 million.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Kimble with Avenue Capital.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
As far as buying acreage in North Louisiana can you just talk about size and timing and the opportunities there to give to more runway? We've been looking at some opportunities in North Louisiana and they're just minimal.
There is not a whole lot of acreage that's available for leasing.
And when it comes to acquisitions we're really not in a position where we want to spend a lot of money on PDP and a lot of these acquisitions come with PDP.
So there is not a whole lot of opportunity to acquire acreage in North Louisiana.
We're in the market every day.
We're looking at it.
We will look at opportunities if we can find some locations that we can buy at appropriate valuations we'll certainly consider it.
But I wouldn't see a big move in that area any time in the immediate future.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Wanted to quickly ask roughly how many net locations you have undrilled remaining in the East Texas and North Louisiana area? Harold? Take a minute.
I'll refer you back to the type curves on slide 28 in the back of the slide deck on line two and line three that shows the gross location count and the net location count for the different operating areas.
So...
Great.
Those columns you could see the Haynesville the Bossier for East Texas and then you see the North Louisiana the sort of core and then you got the South Texas and then the far right the North Louisiana CCM is an another development area in North Louisiana.
So that should – that should give you the detail there in slide 28.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Owen this is – excuse me.
Owen this is Chris.
We have in addition to these type curves we have other locations but what we try to present here is the inventory of economic opportunities that we'll be looking at here in the near term.
Got you.
I see.
So it looks as though you guys would be able to proceed with a decent amount of drilling for the next couple of years right? Yes.
That's right yeah.
Okay.
If we choose to.
If you choose to that's correct.
And also looking at some of the slides I noticed that for the East Texas you're sort of guiding to a goal of that 2 Bcf per 1 000 foot lateral and I think 2.1 for the North Louisiana.
What's the sort of I guess anticipated timeline for hitting that goal? So on the – we'll start with the East Texas one I'm going to refer back to – if we get to the slide – on slide 10.
Panel three of slide 10 kind of walks through how the – how we improved our proved reserve bookings in the Haynesville from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 and how we've modified that with larger completions.
We're currently up to the 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
You can see the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 is our target.
We've actually achieved the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 with some of the smaller 1 400 pound per foot completions.
So we're very encouraged by the performance we're seeing with these larger completions that we showed in the slide pack today.
And in terms of being able to achieve that we feel very confident in the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000.
We really just need production history like the plots we show today there's only a few months of production history on these larger completions mainly in the most recent ones being in the Bossier in East Texas.
So we just need to have the additional time and the production history to make that next move.
Timing will be when the data presents that platform to work from.
Over in the North Louisiana area looking at the proved reserves there I'll move back to slide 15.
15.
15.
So the same panel same format for the North Louisiana area slide three.
1.6 is where you were at yearend by making a spacing change and an increased activity or a proppant loading we were – we moved to the 1.9 Bcf per 1 000.
So we're very much – we are already booked at the 1.9 Bcf per 1 000.
So the program that we would likely be in in 2016 for – on a basis in North Louisiana with larger completions Consistent with the large completions that we show on the map in this slide deck and the data that we are obtaining from the wells with other operators that have the larger completions we're definitely seeing an increase in well performance with the larger completion size.
So to make that step it will be a combination of the OBO wells we participate in with bigger completions and then the move we make to – once we re-engage in North Louisiana with the bigger completions we expect to see that.
Okay.
So from the – on the North Louisiana side you're saying that the move from 1.9 up to 2.1 is just really a matter of resuming the drilling activity there.
What about on the East Texas side of things? I think you talked about moving up to 1.75.
But sorry I guess I missed the bridge to sort of hitting that 2 Bcf goal? Yes.
Again on the East Texas side on slide 10 it's – to hit the gold that's with making an additional investment in the larger completions this 2700 pound per foot completion we need to be seeing an incremental increase over and above that 1.75.
Again we've achieved a 1.75 with the smaller 1 400 pound per foot completion.
So it's just we need -need some more performance history with the campaign that's underway currently.
And with that data support that at the right time we'll make that adjustment upward.
We fully expect that that's the path we'll head down.
Putting the point in time of when that will occur just is data dependent.
Okay.
I see.
And just moving over to the Appalachian region at the moment.
So currently you guys are just really trying to hold acreage by production there but in terms of really sort of conversations had I mean are you guys able to effect any – any sort of acreage swaps or anything like that to sort of help improve the contiguous nature of that acreage? You bring up a good point.
Acreage swaps are something that we're always interested in we're in the market with that every day.
We haven't been able to effect any of late but it's something that we certainly will consider and certainly it's a good target to get more contiguous acreage.
Okay.
And then once you achieve a more contiguous acreage block what is the viewpoint there? Just for a while it felt as though this has really not been a core part of the EXCO story.
Is that...
We like the number of locations there.
We don't like the price realization.
We've got some good rock.
We like more contiguous position.
We do believe there is some significant upside there with the Utica and even potentially with the Upper Devonian.
Okay.
I see.
And based on the current capital base that you guys have put together through these – sort of exchanges and fresh capital raises what is your viewpoint in terms of the timeline until you feel like you would need to either return to the well with that sort of transaction or effect some acreage sales? It feels to me as though you guys really applied yourself like sort of – let's call it 18 months to 24 months.
Does that sort of fit with your thinking? Clearly we – the transactions afford us the liquidity it was an important piece moving forward in conjunction with the debt reduction which is a focus area for the company.
I'm not comfortable putting a timeline on kind of how it would push things out.
We clearly are in a position to where we'll evaluate the asset each asset we own on a case-by-case basis but I'm comfortable that we've got near-term liquidity as we think about putting forth capital it now comes down to the returns you can get from each of those dollars and justifying doing so as you think about the other alternatives that are available to us in the marketplace.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of (58:54).
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my call.
I have a couple of quick questions about the balance sheet management.
With regard to the unsecureds that you bought back why did you purchase in private transactions at $0.51 and then trade for like $0.25? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That was a strategic decision that was made.
We had a core group of holders.
We have had conversations for an extended period of time.
We've had lengthy conversations with our advisor.
I'm sure you're aware we've got a lot of expertise in this area that sits on the board and it was a strategic decision that was made to take that large amount of a reduction in the overall debt and we paid the $0.51 on an average to do so.
And I'd also note that on the trading of those notes if you go back and look at the VWAPS and the trading history there over the past couple of months there has not been really any significant volume to support those trading levels.
So I'm not sure if that is a true indication of where the notes trade at based off what you see on your Bloomberg screen.
Yeah I understand.
I mean I think there's been reasonable volume.
Do you intend to go into the market at those levels going forward from here pick off what you can at $0.25 on the dollar? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well going forward we've got a couple of things that we're evaluating with our advisors and the group so that was the first step as I'd alluded to in my prepared comments.
There is additional steps that are necessary.
We're evaluating each of those steps.
As you can imagine there's a lot of different ways to go about that and we're currently working through that and we'll have an announcement when we have made the decision and move forward.
Okay.
One other question with regard to the reverse split.
If your share price stays over $1 what are your intentions? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's up to the board.
The NYSE restriction is such that on the last trading day of the month if you're over $1 the previous 30 trading days have a weighted average value of over $1 then the danger of being delisted by the NYSE goes away.
That said what we're asking for at this shareholder approval and at this board meeting is just to give the board the authority to implement a reverse share split if they so choose.
Sure.
I understood.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It's not a definitive decision.
I understand that.
I would just like to suggest that you consider not doing it if you can maintain the $1 share price.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So noted.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden with Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Thanks for fitting me in here.
Maybe just on the capital structure initiatives you guys have undertaken Hal or Ricky how important is it to have a borrowing base or RBL with an actual commercial bank? Maybe said another way would you guys look at just kind of – at the current strip would you ever look at terming it out with more permanent financing on the balance sheet and making sure that you don't lose any potential borrowing base as we go forward? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We clearly look at all the options.
We're fortunate that we've had a very supportive bank group.
We've worked through a couple of amendments to modify some covenants going back into last year and have a very good long-term relationship which has afforded us the ability to kind of move forward with that commercial bank group and get the covenant flexibility that allows us to make the decisions we think necessarily to run the business.
But we clearly understand where prices are and are in a position to where at the appropriate time we would consider terming out that piece of debt if the cost and everything else warranted it as we can evaluate that as an option.
Okay.
And so I guess from your vantage point you feel pretty comfortable as you kind of look forward today and recognizing that you haven't gone through year-end reserves but feel pretty comfortable with the level of liquidity that you should have available if you were to go forward with your spring redetermination? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I do.
I mean one of the things that we did and we touched on in the comments is our next redetermination is in March in 2016.
Obviously there is a lot of time in this business between now and March very comfortable with where the banks have gotten to from a price perspective or an underlying value perspective as they evaluate our reserves the same group has been doing it for a long period of time.
So there is a comfort level but noting prices are extremely challenged and the things continued to – the way they are there is the option of terming that out as we move forward through the remainder of 2015 and into 2016 prior to that redetermination.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then maybe just two quick ones.
Sure.
Hal at what point does it make sense to begin to shut in production maybe specifically within Appalachia does that ever make economic sense? And then...
It does make economic sense and we haven't highlighted it.
But we actually have some minimal volumes that we've shut in over the last quarter and even today.
Okay.
That's – it's helpful.
And then just lastly can you maybe talk to what you think your PDP base decline is specifically within East Texas and North Louisiana? Sure.
The PDP base decline in Haynesville when you look back at the mature wells were about 35% that's our base decline.
So for both areas that's fairly representative.
And I think as you look at us going forward and you go back and look historically at the number of wells we've drilled particularly in North Louisiana is our spacing has evolved over time there.
So what I think you'll see going forward is as we go to four wells per section that should help mitigate some of that decline curve with the baseload of wells.
Okay.
And so I guess with that in mind as you think about what 2016 the goal to try to get that under a 30% type of number? I'm not sure if we'll get there next year or not.
It really is driven by how many wells that we would go out and drill in North Louisiana.
But obviously every stick we put in the ground now we think will have a better production profile than the ones we've drilled historically under eight wells or seven wells a section.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Operator we are beyond our one-hour window.
So we'd just like to take one more call please or one more question excuse me.
Your last question comes from the line of Steven Karpel.
Your line is open.
Appreciate you extending just for me.
Did you talk about in first off the Utica where you have the Utica presence or where you're most hopeful in that 40 000 acres as I look at the map and maybe be – if you can be as specific as possible it would be appreciated.
Harold do you want to take that? There's a couple of areas as we monitor industry activity in the Northeast that are very interesting to us.
But kind of when you look at our asset base and you look at our acreage position you look at that proof of acreage on the map across the Armstrong the Jefferson kind of the Western part from our perspective that area is very interesting.
And then also up in the Lycoming area as well we're monitoring activity both – on really both the ends of the play from our perspective.
The 45 000 acreage we referenced is mainly that Armstrong area that's the area that we're very interested in.
One thing you didn't talk about on this call is as you shut down drilling in South Texas is the status too one (1:06:56) I presume the answer is basically de minimis for buybacks from KKR? And then the second piece of that is what is the latest in terms of renegotiating the deal with them? We continue to have ongoing dialog with KKR in our South Texas area.
They have been a good partner.
The structure has some complexities with buybacks as you know.
We are contractually obligated to make the offers each quarter which we've done obviously where pricing is compared to the capital that has been put forward from their perspective.
We'll just see how that moves forward but we continue to make the contractual obligated offers each quarter.
And at these prices it's really KKR's option if they want to sell those at these depressed prices.
We've had some discussions about various things to modify that contract just with the underlying commodity price it's a situation to where the dialog continues to be ongoing but there's not been any substantive movement in that in light of – we're below the $70 threshold to drill and a variety of other factors.
So I'd summarize that it's ongoing.
We'll continue to make our offers they're very receptive as we've talked about some ideas as we have been when they are brought in forth but there's been no substantive conclusion to that as we've thought about the best ways to modify that contract to simplify it for both parties.
Great.
And then lastly I don't believe John Wilder is on the phone but maybe you can answer on his behalf.
Has he bought any shares in the secondary market per his obligations? I presume the answer is no given the capital markets activity you've done but then I would ask when can he start making purchases and when does he need under the current agreement to really – to wrap that up.
Thank you.
Yeah.
He has been subject to the blackout as all of us prior to earnings.
I know his group is working to put a plan in place that will allow the execution of those open market purchases as outlined in the contract we have with them.
And then he has a period of time from the closing of that I believe it's a year to execute and finalize those open market transactions.
So that will be obviously up to him but the window will be open as a result of releasing earnings tomorrow.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you everyone for your interest in our call this morning.
We really appreciate the questions and we'll be available.
If you have further questions reach out to us.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.