Good morning.
My name is Beck and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to our Fourth Quarter and Year End 2015 Results.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results followed by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris.
Good morning again.
Thanks everyone for your interest and participation in our fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
On today's call I'll discuss the progress we continue to make on our strategic improvement plan and our fourth quarter and full year operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold to review our operations and assets.
Ricky will expand on liquidity and liability management initiatives and financial results.
Then we'll take your questions.
Natural gas and crude oil prices remain extremely challenged and oil and gas companies continue to reduce drilling activity as evidenced by the continued decline in land rig count.
There are currently approximately 475 land rigs working down some 60% compared to a year ago with approximately 100 of the rigs drilling for natural gas.
Spot gas prices are trading around levels not seen since 1999 back to prices this month of $1.68.
Natural gas remains under pressure due to mild winter weather record gas inventories and high absolute levels of production even as the year-over-year rate of production growth has fallen substantially.
Gas prices will continue to be challenged during the injection season incentivizing additional cold gas switching but assuming normal weather we believe the outlook for gas will improve overtime due to multiple factors including the significant drop in rigs which could result in the first year of flat to declining production since 2005.
LNG exports during the first Gulf Coast shipment recently sailed higher exports to Mexico and Canada increasing power generation demand and expansion of the gas driven industrial complex.
Longer term demand drivers for natural gas are compelling and while there is still uncertainty on how the natural gas market will evolve over the next couple of years we do believe we can navigate through this challenging market environment due to our high quality asset base low cost overhead capital discipline significant liquidity continuous improvement drive and very importantly the supported Board of Directors and owners.
We took decisive action throughout 2015 to tackle the market challenges as summarized on Slide 2.
John Wilder our Executive Chairman has led the strategic improvement plan that we executed in 2015 and we are doing more to achieve our goals.
We've been managing our liabilities reducing our well cost LOE and G&amp;A refocusing on where we spend our capital and building upon our strengths and abilities which include drilling and completing value enhancing wells and improving their deliverability restructuring our commitments and a linear cost structure absolutely key to generating long-term value for our owners as we work through this cycle.
We've been making successful changes to our balance sheet organizational structure cost capital program and drilling completion designs as we execute on our strategic improvement plan as outlined on Slide 3.
We will remain unwavering in our 2016 focus.
We delivered operational and financial results within our full year guidance for '15 while spending $23 million or 8% less than our budgeted CapEx.
For 2015 actual CapEx of $277 million was down 35% from '14 and we're spending significantly less in 2016.
We've improved our debt structure by reducing our total debt by $402 million or 26% during the fourth quarter.
In 2016 we've continued to focus on extending our liquidity runway reducing our unsecured notes by an additional $49 million.
Managing our liquidity is absolutely key as we work through this cycle.
Other liability management initiatives include working with our gathering and transportation providers to reduce our near-term rates.
In 2015 we renegotiated sales and transportation contracts in North Louisiana and South Texas realizing $10 million in savings and we're evaluating multiple options to achieve further cost reductions targeting even greater reductions in 2016.
We're transforming EXCO into a low cost producer as we rationalize both corporate and operational overhead.
We reduced our workforce by 44% in 2015 and we continue to pursue additional corporate cost saving initiatives.
We're targeting an additional $8 million run rate reduction in overhead cost in 2016.
We reduced our 2015 drilling and completion cost by 28% on a lateral foot basis while at the same time dramatically increasing the amount of profit utilized and we have plans for further cost reductions.
We're also targeting a $5 million reduction in LOE in 2016 as we continue to look at all cost throughout the organization.
Our approved 2016 $70 million operated drilling and completion budget drilled nine gross wells through June '16 and completes 18 gross wells through August '16 a reduction of $101 million or 59% versus the comparable period in 2015.
Our 2016 development in East Texas is focused on continuing to increase value for our investors as it represents our platform for future growth.
We're completing and turning to sales wells we drilled in East Texas during 2015 to further validate our improved results.
The wells feature enhanced completion methods including the use of more than 2700 pounds of proppant per lateral foot.
The results have outperformed our proved result type curve based on a EUR of 1.5 Bcf for 1000 lateral feet for Haynesville Shale and Bossier Shale wells.
1.5 Bcf represents a 15% increase from year-end 2014 EURs and there is potential for additional upside as more production history has established.
We have a 1.75 Bcf target and a 2.0 Bcf per 1000 foot goal for these wells.
We are now drilling in North Louisiana and applying our modified Haynesville Shale well design which includes enhanced completion methods and longer lateral tests that have proven to be successful in East Texas.
These initiatives are expected to increase our Haynesville Shale well economics and most importantly enhance our value and optionality around future developmental when process recover.
We have demonstrated through our liability management and issues that we are making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across both sides of the balance sheet to ensure we achieve the highest returns and best use of our capital.
We stopped drilling in South Texas due to low oil prices and have been focusing our development program in East Texas and North Louisiana where we have been able to appraise our locations and enhance their value.
We will continue to monitor the economics in this area to ensure we are appropriately managing our capital spending and we will be having discussions with our board in the near term regarding additional drilling if any in 2016.
We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our portfolio and increase our drilling inventories through acquisitions.
As we drive our cost down to become the low cost producer we will be able to leverage our operating and technical expertise and scale through acquisitions and other structures to maximize our value.
We are also evaluating divestitures of non-core assets that can provide capital that can be redeployed to higher rate or return projects or enhance our financial performance and liquidity.
Without Board we have the support and guidance from world-class institutional sponsors.
These owners represent approximately 50% of our outstanding shares hold a significant amount of our debt have historically provided capital and support our efforts.
Slide 4 highlights the results of balance sheet focus liability management efforts that have improved our debt structure and provided structural liquidity.
We have reduced our 2018 senior unsecured notes by $602 million or 80% as we focused on our nearest term note maturity.
We have $125 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuance of new secured debt and we are evaluating additional liability management and issues.
We have $270 million available on our credit agreement.
Our asset base is highly supportive of $375 million borrowing base and we do not have any debt maturities till 2018.
We remain liquidity focused to enhance our runway and continue implementing our improvement plan.
Panel one of Slide 5 summarizes the size of prize as we look to restructuring our gathering and transportation contracts to enhance liquidity.
Between above market rates and unused volumes we have a large universe of dollars available for potential value capture.
We have some success negotiating improved differentials and lower transport rate but we must in our doing more as we consider both commercial and legal options.
Slide 6 highlights our relentless focus on reducing our corporate overhead burden.
We have lowered our annualized cash G&amp;A which includes capitalized salaries about 40% with our 2015 efforts and we have a target of an additional 27% on a reduction basis in 2016.
We have moved from a third quartile to a first quartile position and plan on moving to top this outperformance with our 2016 target.
I'll now turn the call over to Harold to review our operational performance successes.
Thanks Hal.
Moving to Slide 7 our operations team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies that improve the returns on capital we deploy.
Panel one charts our most recent 6 oil wells drilled in East Texas.
As you could see all the wells were drilled faster than AFE averaging 39 days or 7 days under our AFE.
Our team has made considerable progress with the mud system hole cleaning procedures bid selection improved rate of penetration and we have demonstrated sound consistency and strong execution.
Panel two charged the first three wells we drilled in 2016 in North Louisiana.
It's been almost a year since we last drilled in North Louisiana but as you can see in the graph we performed exceptionally well.
We drilled our most recent well in 23 days which is our all-time record in the Haynesville where we drilled over 500 horizontal wells.
The other two wells drilled in the same unit also make our all-time top ten list.
These first three wells in our 2016 program averaged 26 days from spud to rig release versus a planned AFE of 31 days.
This translates to per well saving of $300 000 compared to AFE.
Our current AFE for a Holly well with a 4 500 foot lateral is $6.2 million.
We are very pleased with our improved and consistent drilling performance in both areas and we will continue to build on these successes.
Panel three illustrates the reduction in costs by major components we realized in the Haynesville over the last year.
The cost reductions are combinations of price reductions design and procedure changes implemented by our engineers and improved efficiencies and execution by our well site team it has been highly successful in optimizing costs and improving logistics on location.
Our supply chain operations team service providers and suppliers have worked very efficiently to reduce cost and improve efficiencies to manage through this down-cycle.
We are expecting significant performance improvement in our Holy wells as a result of larger completion designs including profit loading of 2700 pounds per foot higher rates of 16 million cubic feet per day and higher sustained floor rates over time due to the larger completion design.
We have drilling locations booked at 2 Bcf per 1000 foot of lateral which is our rated year-end [ph] proved reserves estimates and our target is slightly higher at 2.1 Bcf per 1000.
On Slide 8 Panel one provides an overview of planned capital investments for 2016.
The total budget of $103 million includes drilling activity for the first half of the year completions through August of 2016 and other capital for the full year.
This level of spending on the drilling and completion portion of the budget is 59% lower than the comparable period in 2015.
We have two rigs currently drilling in North Louisiana and our plans for the second half of 2016 will be evaluated based on our success and delivery in these initial wells on time and on budget and the commodity price outlook.
Panels two and three summarize the capital spending in 2016 by category and projected well counts by area.
Slide 9 summarized our year-end proved reserves.
We have 907 Bcf equivalent of proved reserves of SEC PV-10 of $402 million.
As you can see on panel three we added a 198 Bcf equivalent through extensions and discoveries with a 126 Bcf of 64% coming from East Texas with the successful development of our Shelby area.
These development efforts help demonstrate the up-side of our East Texas assets.
Other revisions of previous estimates included a 184 Bcf equivalent of upward revisions due to performance and other factors with 152 Bcf or 83% coming from North Louisiana due to modifications in well design and reductions in capital costs.
We had downward revisions of 616 Bcf equivalent as result of decreased commodity prices.
SEC pricing decreased from $4.35 per Mmbtu to $2.59 for natural gas and 94.99 per barrel to $59.28 for oil.
On NYMEX strip basis our PV-10 was $811 million year-end more than two times our $375 million borrowing base.
Now I'll turn the discussion over to Ricky for more details on our recent financial activity results.
Thanks Harold and good morning.
We remain focused on cost reductions and performance improvements that we can control.
EXCO has demonstrated its resiliencies during these times as many of our peers have succumbed to financial distress.
We are carefully deploying capital in a price sensitive environment as evidenced by our reduction in the 2016 capital budget.
We continuously reassess our plans to ensure we are generating attractive returns we have no issues shutting down or ramping up based on market conditions as evidenced by our actions.
As previously stated our mentality is focused on ensuring we maximize the value of every dollar spent for the benefit of our owners.
Turning to Slide 10 where I would like to highlight that we have no near term maturities.
We executed a series of transactions during the fourth quarter and it reduced the principal of our indebtedness by $402 million compared to the prior quarter.
We utilized NOLs to offset the taxable income associated with these transactions and still have $1.8 billion in NOL to offset future taxable income.
We continue to execute additional liability management transactions in 2016 and repurchase $49 million of additional notes.
The payback period from these investments on interest savings alone is approximately 20 months.
We plan to execute additional repurchases at significant discounts to par further reducing our principal outstanding.
As a result of the repurchases trading liquidity in our notes has declined and prices may not reflect the underlying value of our debt.
Our nearest note maturity is due in 2008 and the principal balance has been reduced from $750 million to $149 million through March 1.
We have $225 million of wings capacity which can be used for further exchanges issuance of additional indebtedness or other matters.
Our liquidity we ended 2015 with liquidity of $334 million.
Our liquidity into February has not changed materially although we have drawn in our revolver this has been more than offset by cash flows from an operator that was included in working capital where we received a prepayment from one of our customers to reduce our risk as we manage through this cycle.
Our capital program for 2016 will be funded with cash flows from operations and borrowing under the credit agreement.
Our liquidity represents approximately 3x the capital program approved by our Board of Directors.
Our next borrowing base is in late March and we believe our reserves are more than sufficient to support the borrowing base as evidenced by our year-end NYMEX PV-10 proved reserves of $811 million compared to our borrowing base of $375 million.
Overtime we've established a strong partnership with our bank group and since year-end 2004; we have reduced the bank group's exposure by approximately 60%.
In October 2015 we reduced our borrowing base from $600 million to $375 million in connection with our second lien term loan issuance as we termed out $300 million of our credit agreement balance.
A significant portion of the second lien notes are held by funds represented by members of our Board of Directors who are committed to our continued success.
We have received positive feedback from our lead bank on our pending spring redetermination and they are supportive of reaffirming on borrowing base at $375 million.
Unlike several of our peers we don't precede the need for modifications to our debt covenants to remain in compliance.
We read as the banks have considerable discretion in setting our borrowing base and our liquidity could be negatively impacted if the borrowing base is substantially reduced.
We're currently involved in a litigation matter with the joint venture partner in the Eagle Ford which could also impact our liquidity.
We see our disclosure in our SEC filings for further information on this topic.
We're hopeful we can reach a commercial solution that's beneficial to both parties.
I want to stress as evidenced by our actions we will consider any and all steps to maximize our liquidity and deliver value to our investors.
Turning to Slide 11 production for the full year 2015 was 340 Mmcfe per day a 3% decline from prior year adjusted for asset divestiture.
Production was relatively flat considering capital decrease 35% from the prior year demonstrating the efficiency of our capital probe.
In addition we've shut in 1.1 Bcfe in Appalachia as a result of the low regional prices we were receiving there.
G&amp;A for the full year 2015 decreased by approximately 20% excluding the severance that we paid to the employees that are no longer with us.
We reduced our headcount by 32% in the fourth quarter and 44% year-over-year.
We have also eliminated numerous benefits including the 401(k) match and are aggressively looking for other items that can be reduced.
We expect to realize the full impacts of these initiatives during 2016.
We had a 39% decline in adjusted EBITDA for the full year '15 which was primarily driven by lower commodity prices including a 50% reduction in realized oil and a 46% reduction in the realized natural gas price.
Now turning to Slide 12 where the actuals are compared to guidance.
During the fourth quarter and full year actuals began we delivered our full year 2015 operational and financial results and they were within guidance with the exception of interest expense which was lower than guidance.
Production was right at the midpoint of the range for the full year on an oil side due to recent activity in the Eagle Ford although we are encouraged by the cost and performance of these wells due to the current commodity price we are no longer developing this asset at this time.
Natural gas production at fourth quarter was towards the high end of guidance despite the shut-ins in Appalachia as previously mentioned.
The strong performance from recent wells turned to sales in East Texas was able to offset these shut-in bonds.
Natural gas production was in line with the midpoint to the full year.
Oil differentials for the fourth quarter 2015 were higher than guidance due to the narrowing of the LLS WTI spread.
Gathering and transportation was at the low end for the full year 2015.
We have been working with our midstream providers to restructure contracts and we achieved some success during 2015.
However I want to stress there is a lot of work to be done here and we are evaluating all commercial and legal options to do so.
G&amp;A was above guidance during the fourth quarter with $2.7 million in severance and $1.8 million accrual for the Bluescape annual incentive payment.
The true savings these recent reductions in force will be more evidenced in our 2016 guidance as they occurred late in the quarter.
For the full year G&amp;A was towards the high end of our guidance however it did not contemplate $5.3 million in severance and $4.5 million in Bluescape accruals.
The advisory services from Bluescape were attributed to us being a top desk oil performer as we were comparing to our peer group.
Interest in the fourth quarter was below guidance.
The carrying value of the second lien term loan issued in the debt exchange was recorded based on undiscounted principle plus future interest in accordance with GAAP.
The payments reflected in interest on the exchanged term loan will be treated as a reduction in the carrying amount and will not be reported as interest expense under GAAP.
Debt repurchases at a discount cost will continue to reduce our interest expense.
Our open market repurchases have resulted in approximately $6.5 million with interest reductions on an annual basis.
Turning to Slide 13 where we've highlighted our first half 2016 guidance.
It reflects our limited capital over there oil production decline as we do not have plans to develop in this region at the current path [ph].
Natural gas production will continue to decline in the first quarter than increase in the second as we start to see the volumes from wells turned to sale late in the first quarter and early in the second.
Oil differentials will continue to be impacted by the LLS WTI spread and natural gas differentials should stay consistent.
Lease operating expenses are expected to be consistent on a per Mcf basis due to the lowering of production.
However we expect a decrease in absolute dollars as we realize our goal of $5 million savings in LOE.
Gathering and transportation will increase on a Mcfe basis given the decline in production and the fixed nature of the contracts.
However the restructuring of these contracts is a key focal point of our strategy and we are working tirelessly to improve the economic and bring these in line with market rates.
A significant reduction in G&amp;A spend guided in the 2016 guidance impacts the reduction of the cost reduction initiatives.
We continue to rationalize our corporate overhead to ensure they are commensurate with the value created by our business.
Slide 14 highlights our hedge positions.
Our hedge position and our price is significantly above the current market which provides this protection in the near term and gives us the optionality in the future years.
We have 73% of our PDP forecast hedged at $2.90 on the gas side and 42% of our PDP forecast hedged at the oil side of $61.89.
We remain committed to protecting the returns on the capital deployed.
Our recent hedge was a swap for 20 million Mmbtu per day in February for $2.35 which is consistent with the pricing needed to support our type curves on slide 23.
We continue to look at entering into additional contracts for 16 and beyond.
The levels of hedging would be dependent on the development plans and market conditions.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We will now open the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Will.
Appreciate the cover you guys provide on 2016.
One thing I want to ask you guys about is in the back half of the year if we are looking at a situation where you guys decide to go on to that kind of maintenance type mode that you guys have as a playful out there right now what kind of legacy decline would you guys be up against so we can think about the production profile after you guys stop completing wells in the first half of the year? Harold would you take that question? Sure.
Our base decline overall for the company Will we are looking at 34% that's largely driven of course by the Haynesville volumes and East Texas and North Louisiana with that being the biggest portion of the company but that overall decline on a base just true base excluding the way we are looking that is excluding the impact of new well additions prior to that as we enter into 2016 over the mid-30s 34%.
Okay I appreciate the color there.
And then can you talk about the process of looking at the program in the back half of the year is that something that would make sense I know the current strip is little bit of pressure but could you guys find something within the portfolio that would make sense to drill in a current strip environment? If so where would that activity be directed? If not what would it take to green light something in the back half? I can see a scenario where we do not drill in the second half of the year.
And with the current commodity prices it is significant challenge.
We are very conscious of maintaining our cash flow and liquidity ensuring that we are using every precious dollar for the best purpose we can and so scenarios that would drive us to drill we have to see a significantly higher gas price but right now it's some tough decisions we are going to have to make.
We are going to have to understand what the impacts would be on our balance sheets our liquidity and our performance score forward so it will be a discussion we have in the near future with the board.
Great I appreciate that and then maybe one more on the G&amp;A side.
I know you guys talked a little bit about this.
It looks like a pretty meaningful decline from first quarter and second quarter that you guys are modelling out.
Is that a second quarter G&amp;A number is that a good number to use going forward for the rest of the year at least now is that a good run-rate for you guys? Yes Ricky? Will that's a number that I've used for the rest of the year that's the second quarter as you look to put them out.
Perfect thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jess Davis [ph].
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks.
I guess my numbers are heavier than $20 million pre hedges data and about $55 million after hedges which puts you about 20 times leveraged so other than additional revolver draws additional debt what other options do you think you have for your interest in CapEx? Ricky? Yes I don't have the same numbers that you do as we look toward 2016 plan as I look at it.
I am looking at outstanding of approximately $120 million and that is based on the approved capital that includes some debt repurchases in the open market.
Obviously the cash flows are sensitive as we look at the commodity price movement for every $0.10 2016 every $0.10 on the gas side of price change is about a $5 million change in EBITDA.
So my numbers are different than what you just put from a levered perspective.
Okay.
And there has been a couple of your peers that have in their filings recently noted that they may lose access to their revolvers.
Given they can't make the solvency representation in those revolvers and you have a similar representation there which you effectively have to state that the assets are worth more than the liabilities.
So I am assuming you are comfortable making that representation so in the context of prepping to your banks in a material contract that the assets are worth more than the liabilities and your large shareholders purchasing shares in the open market why do you think philosophically your debt holders should take big heir cuts? I don't have a philosophical view on it we evaluate it based on the underlying market conditions and where the debt is currently traded and we are in a position where we are trying to put forward capital for the absolute best return so from a philosophical perspective I don't have an opinion on that.
We tried to look at the market and then take advantage of the underlying commodity price and deploy capital where it's most advantageous to the owners of this company.
Okay.
But you will rep to the banks that they assets are more than the liabilities? Well we stated in our prepared remarks the value we have done a lot of thing to move away from and we are not in a situation like some our peers to where we have just the revolver in place.
Terming out the second lien was a big piece of that at the time we talked about matching the capital structure with the profile of the asset base that was a big piece of that.
We worked concurrently with the banks as we moved through 2015 during the liability management exercise so I am very comfortable with the value of the borrowing base about the projected value of the borrowing base in light of the underlying value of the assets even in light of the commodity pricing.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Steven Carpow [ph].
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I just wanted to understand if I look at your drilling program versus your completion program can you walk us through again I didn't follow all the numbers in terms of what your backlog is and then why is there a disparity between the completions and the drilling numbers? For the backlog it's really the 2015 wells in East Texas that we just spud and drilled in 2015 that are in the completion phase now there is a carry in component.
So let me refer to slide 8 and if you look at panel three on Slide 8 the East Texas area when you see the $28 million of capital that's capital related to the completion activity of that drilling campaign that's in progress now.
So that's the drilling or the completion piece East Texas.
Now when we shift to North Louisiana the two rigs now are in North Louisiana that component that represents the nine new wells were spud drilled and complete in 2016 and that's represented on the second line on panel three and the total is $42 million.
So as far as any additional inventory or wells waiting on completion we have none.
We have everything in the completion phase that we are carrying into East Texas and then we will drill the nine wells in North Louisiana and that's the combined program in the approved 2016 capital budget as we stand today.
So maybe make it easy for me.
Year-end 2016 what will the backlog of wells be? Zero.
Perfect and you noted the contract change on the gathering side on unit basis how much did that change? And I know you are not going to say who it is with but can you give us a sense on so maybe we can understand the bigger trend here.
What type of participant that was with and what kind of change was made in the contract and how we should think about that for others? Obviously lot of talk in the industry about it not as many seem to be getting changes so I want to understand what this means in a bigger content? The particularly contract you maybe referencing is one where we did a blend and extend we added some term to our contract reduction in rate of about a third.
So it was roughly $0.10 that came off of our contract and we added some years to the term so it was PV positive event for us for certain.
And what was that contract exactly how much gathering versus well head well head gathering versus processing etcetera? What I'm talking about in particular is the transportation contract on a pipeline.
And maybe a bit more specific how long was the pipeline contract was - was this pure gathering? And then are you having success as the peer well head gathering level too? That was a transportation contract Steven.
This was a transportation contract of an intra-state line.
As far as the gathering contracts we're in some negotiations with them as we speak so ask you to standby for further information on them.
Can you qualitatively say are you getting support from your well head gatherers? We are having discussions with them that seem to be heading in the right direction so it's very constructive at this point.
So yes I would say it's a constructive conversation I think we're getting support.
We haven't signed the final deal on any of those yet so we're working towards it.
So again we'll apprise you as appropriate.
Understood.
And how much more ability do you have on the bond buyback front whether it's restricted payment room or room under the credit agreement what not on a dollar cash - on a cash basis? I'm not going to get into the specific amounts we have left but we have the ability to be in the market to the extent the conditions weren't to continue that program as we get into '16.
And overall the color was that we have the opportunity to continue to have a significant impact on our liabilities.
And I know I got a lot but I'll just sneak in one last one on part of that.
Sure.
Do you think about your CapEx budget of $103 million is there - is potential to divert more of that capital obviously the returns are very favorable on the bond buybacks.
And even looking at some of the drilling reserves is there potential to divert some of that capital? There is to move some of that capital around absolutely.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Hal Hickey for closing remarks.
We appreciate your interest this morning.
Thank you for your continued interest in EXCO and we'll talk to you next time.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.