Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call on March 12 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this afternoon and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-K after market closed on Monday March 11 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-K.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed.
And this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today March 12 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this afternoon to review Xerium's fourth quarter performance.
Net sales have been stable in 2012 averaging approximately $134.7 million a quarter and are within a range of plus-or-minus 2%.
Our backlog defined as orders expected to ship within 1 year suggest that this trend will continue and currently stands at $174 million as of December 31 2012.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 net sales were essentially the same at a 0.3% decline or a 1.4% decline on a constant currency basis.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 net sales decreased 7.9% or 6.2% on a constant currency basis to $133.8 million from $145.2 million.
Year-over-year net sales decreased 8.2% or 4.9% on a constant currency basis to $538.7 million from $587 million.
Gross profit has been fairly stable in 2012 averaging approximately $48.4 million per quarter and within a range of plus-or-minus 3%.
The 4.5% decline from $49.2 million in the third quarter of 2012 to $47 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily as a result of special charges [indiscernible] asset impairments lower constant currency sales volume and reduced production absorption.
Despite stable sales adjusted EBITDA declined 15.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $20.6 million from $24.4 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This decline was primarily a result of special charges of $1.4 million for items including payroll tax exposures accounts receivable inventories and a third quarter reversal of $0.5 million management incentive costs that did not occur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In addition to these unusual items adjusted EBITDA declined $1.5 million primarily due to reduced gross profit lower constant currency sales and lower production absorption.
Total debt is trending down as a result of explicit paydown actions and stands at $445 million as of December 31 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 the company paid down $5.1 million of debt including the repurchase of $3.6 million of its notes in December of 2012.
On a full year basis debt was paid down $25.7 million.
Net debt as defined as total debt less cash balances was $410.2 million at December 31 2012.
The company is fully underway with a multiyear plan and commitment to increase sales and EBITDA and is rightsizing its cost structure around its core business and also repositioning its production capacity via lower cost and better service customers.
The company has taken specific cost actions to increase 2013 adjusted EBITDA including the closure of 4 manufacturing operations and reduction of headcount.
We have targeted savings net of reinstated incentive compensation of approximately $12 million in the year 2013 with a progressive quarterly buildup of cost out actions and a carryover into 2014.
Specifically the company took action against approximately $1.5 million of costs net of incentive compensation reinstatement in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
The company is funding and gaining its cost reduction activities with internal cash flow.
The company has also kicked off and/or accelerated several new sales growth and new product programs in order to reestablish top line growth opportunities.
These strategic moves will be kept private by company management for the time being but these actions are expected to open up another $200 million of opportunity into our served market.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance Thank you Harold.
Sales for the quarter decreased 7.9% to $133.8 million from $145.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for 1.7% of the reduction while sales declined 6.2% from an operational standpoint.
This decrease was comprised of a 5.4% decrease in our clothing business and a decline of 7.8% in our rolls business.
On a sequential basis sales for the fourth quarter decreased 0.3% compared to the third quarter of 2012 as favorable currency exchange differences of 1.1% were offset by a 1.4% decline in sales volume.
On a full year basis sales decreased 8.2% as currency exchange rate differences accounted for 3.4% of the decline while the remaining decrease was due primarily to weakness in our European clothing and roll cover businesses.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 35.1% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to 34.6% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as special charges for noncash asset impairments were more than offset by reduced direct labor and material cost and the impact of favorable currency effects on production costs.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 35.1% from 36.6% primarily as a result of special charges for asset impairments and lower production absorption.
On a full year basis compared to 2011 gross profit dollars decreased by $22.6 million or 10.5% while gross margin declined 0.9% from 36.8% to 35.9%.
The primary drivers of the 0.9% reduction in gross margin rates from 2011 to 2012 were unfavorable factory absorption due to lower production volume in our plants unfavorable regional and product sales mix an increased inventory obsolescence cost due to a reduction of inventory reserves in 2011 that did not reoccur in 2012.
These unfavorable variances were partially offset by favorable freight factory supplies and repairs and maintenance.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs increased 3% to $38.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 from $37.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase was due to special charges to impair certain assets held for sale and to provide for payroll tax exposures in 2012 and a reversal of management incentive compensation in the fourth quarter of 2011.
These increases were partially offset by favorable currency effects decreased legal fees and reduced sales agency commissions due to the termination of several sales agencies arrangements earlier in 2012.
Total SG&amp;A and research and development expense for the year ended December 31 2011 declined 1.3% to $151.5 million from $153.5 million.
The reduction was the net result of the favorable resolution of a contingent liability lower management incentive compensation and reduced sales agency commissions partially offset by CEO transition costs the prior year reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil and special charges for the impairment of certain assets held for sale and payroll tax exposures.
Restructuring expense increased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $14.8 million from $0.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a result of recent announcements regarding the planned closure of a paper machine clothing plant in Spain and a spreader roll plant in Charlotte North Carolina.
In addition the company incurred costs to reduce its workforce particularly in Europe and  close of a roll covering plant in France.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 we realized savings of $1.7 million related to actions initiated to date under the Vision 2015 restructuring program and expect this to grow approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Income from operations declined in the fourth quarter of 2012  to a loss of $6.1 million from income of $12.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The primary drivers of this decline were the incurrence of an incremental $14.5 million in restructuring costs and reduced volume primarily related to the European debt crisis and recession.
For the full year 2012 income from operations declined to income of $16.4 million from $61.1 million in 2011.
Net interest expense was flat at $9.4 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This flat result reflects lower debt balances offset by increased interest rates as a result of the terms of our bank amendment entered into in June 2012 which added 75 basis points to our bank interest rate spread over LIBOR for each of the 6 quarters from the amendment date through December 2013.
Cash interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $8.7 million.
For the full year net interest expense improved 3.3% to $37.9 million from $39.2 million.
The reduction in 2012 was due to lower debt balances net of the impact of higher interest rates for the last 6 months of the year related to the June bank amendment.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax loss were 42.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 16.5% for the full year ended December 31 2012.
Our overall tax rate for the full year reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
The improvement in the fourth quarter tax benefit was principally due to an approximately $6-million decrease in the reserve for uncertain tax provisions.
The geographic mix of earnings and consolidated net losses driven primarily by the large amount of restructuring expenses recorded in taxpaying jurisdictions in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net loss/income and diluted earnings per share decreased to a loss of $9.1 million or $0.59 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012 from income of $2.4 million or $0.16 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a full year basis 2012 net loss/income and diluted earnings per share declined to a loss of $18 million or $1.18 per diluted share from income of $8.2 million or $0.54 per diluted share for the comparable year-ended December 31 2011.
Restructuring expense net of taxes were $18 million or $1.18 per share and accounted for all of the loss per share in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing arrangements and provides both a liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2012 decreased to $20.6 million from $22.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA declined 17.2% to $89.2 million from $107.7 million representing 16.6% of net sales.
Trade working capital improved from the third quarter of 2012 from $138.5 million to $131.1 million.
This improvement is due to a $2.6 million reduction in inventory a $2.4 million reduction in accounts receivable and an increase in trade payables of $2.4 million.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2011 TWC improved $145.2 million to $131.1 million an improvement of 9.7%.
Capital expenditures for the year totaled $21.7 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be about $32 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $9.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 despite the fact that the company made $13.8 million of interest payments on debts.
For the full year the company generated operating cash of $39.3 million or $2.58 per diluted share.
This cash along with the cash on hand at the beginning of the year were used to purchase $21.7 million of capital expenditures and repay $25.7 million of debt.
At year-end we had $34.8 million of cash on hand and approximately $24.5 million of borrowing availability under our revolver and other facilities.
Thank you Cliff.
At this point in time that ends our prepared comments and I'll open up the session here to question and answering.
And Dominique is our moderator today.
And Dominique we're ready.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Hey so first question on the net cost savings that you guys talked about both in the release and here on the call.
I think Cliff you had said that you realized savings of $1.7 million in the fourth quarter and you expect that to be around $3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
How does that compare to the $12 million that you guys talked about in the release for the year? Is that $12 million actually the amount of cost savings you expect to realize in '13 relative to '12? Yes 2 different ideas.
The first is in the -- in my comments the increase from $1.7 million to $3 million relates to the restructuring projects that we have and the impact they'll have on the fourth quarter and then expected to have on the first quarter in 2013.
The $12 million number includes not only the restructuring savings that we intend to generate but also the other operational benefits that we intend to generate in the first quarter -- or for the full year that is net of the incentive compensation add-back for the year which was not included in the 2012 results.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
So is it fair to say that that $12 million is a total cost reduction number that you expect to achieve in 2013 from all your different initiatives? It is net of the add-backs for reinstating the incentive compensation but it includes the savings that we expect for the full year across all of our initiatives.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
And are you guys still expecting something like $20 million by 2015? Or does that include the additional $20 million that you think you could get from that as well? This as a mixed program of the Vision 2015 as well as other initiatives.
So right now what we're saying is that the $20 million for the Vision 2015 we're showing that we're generating quite a bit of that this year.
But we've got other opportunities initiatives for the incremental operational savings that we've kicked off and those will be part of a multiyear plan as well.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I would say great move on repurchasing debt in the quarter at a discount helps lower the leverage and improve your future cash flow.
How much additional capacity do you guys have to repurchase notes? Under the terms of our bank loan agreement we have a $10 million basket.
So we've used $3.1 million of that I believe so we've got about $7 million left.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then can you talk a little bit about Europe? What you're seeing there in the overall economic environment and with regards to your sales? Yes we have with us today -- we have the President of Europe North America Dave Pretty.
Dave would you take that one please? Sure.
Richard just to add some color to the question.
From a paper manufacturing standpoint most of the announced capacity reductions have materialized or continue to materialize.
We believe that the markets in Europe are showing signs of stabilizing.
And this appears to be supported by the fact that a lot of the grades majority of the paper grades in Europe are sort of couching price increases for the markets for end of this quarter and the second quarter.
And consequently from a rolls and clothing standpoint this has had a positive impact in our January and February sales and orders both in rolls and in clothing.
And definitely trending up through the first 2 months very encouraged by that.
So I guess to answer the question things appear to be moving in the right direction.
And I'll add Richard.
[indiscernible] read Albany's release and they mentioned that their sequential sales ticked up in Q4 in Europe.
Ours actually ticked up before that and are holding at that higher level and to Dave's point we continue to see strengthening.
So I think around here we believe that the customers that we serve have flattened out.
We still agree with the long-term trend of declining paper and writing grade but increasing tissue grade so that all of the same dynamics are in place that you hear elsewhere.
But our share of the market is holding steady and then growing in certain spots and our orders are churning up in Europe now for a couple of quarters.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Very good.
And how would you characterize the pricing environment there in Europe? Has that stabilized as well with regards to clothing and roll cover? I think from a standpoint of PMC we're still holding our own in the market.
And as far as the rolls cover -- the roll cover business again while there's competitive pressure we are still holding our ground based on product performance and product portfolio.
Remember that we're selling on value.
We're not selling on price and we've been able to continue to execute on that front.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question a little bit more of an accounting question.
You guys talked about the payroll tax charges and a few other adjustments that you had there.
Is that stuff -- has that stuff been added back to -- in the calculation of adjusted EBITDA? The only thing that gets added back we had some impairment of some fixed assets that would be added back for purposes of the calculation.
All of the other charges would be included in the EBITDA results that you see.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
I see and then that breakout of impairment charges between cost of good sold and SG&amp;A? Yes the -- while the impairment charges that would -- that were added back was about I think it was about $1.8 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Harold I guess terms of the cost savings just unclear is the company saying it will realize in 2013 $12 million of incremental cost savings versus 2012.
Just so I'm really clear on that? Yes our intention with saying the numbers in this manner is just to try to give you some clarity on what you can add in your model for 2013 versus 2012 on net cost takeout of the company because the company did not have any incentive comp last year was -- did not achieve its targets and we're accruing now against a different plan and we are accruing therefore a higher payroll dollar amount.
That's where it shows up.
And so in -- net of that number all in you should see our cost reduce net-net $12 million year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's definitely helpful.
And then I guess to elaborate further on the press release that mentioned the company taking specific cost-reduction actions to increase 2013 EBITDA is the company guiding directionally for adjusted EBITDA to be up year-over-year in 2013? Or no guidance on that front? I was just trying to sort of parse through the underlying meaning if there is one there? Well there's 2 points.
Our -- we're trying to be pretty clear on the cost takeout year-over-year as adequate [ph] to 2012 $12 million.
And then additionally we're not done deal.
We are -- we have a pay-as-you-go programs that we're running here.
We have very specific actions in mind for our next series.
We have capacity to do so in all of our agreements to spend significantly more materially more.
We're gaining our activities properly based on cash flow and we have a slate of additional cost take out actions that are not in play yet that the numbers that we discussed with you are our firm plan and we are on that plan.
So like any good management team we have additional actions to try to beat the plan.
But at this point in time we're on plan and that plan calls for $12 million net take-out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right but I guess looking at the sort of the secular trends and pricing volume and the cost takeout there's certainly a lot of moving parts and I know EBITDA was down roughly about 9% on a reported basis 4Q year-over-year.
So again I'm just kind of looking at 2013 versus 2012 is directionally the comment that EBITDA is flat or up or down or just kind of refraining from even elaborating on that? Well on 2013 Q1 I can just tell you that through January and February our sales and orders are ahead of prior year and prior quarter and our EBITDA is significantly ahead of prior year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess lastly in terms of maintaining price because I know it's a price and value proposition what about in terms of market shares? Is the company roughly speaking holding market share by being disciplined on price? Or any market share erosion as a result of being disciplined on price? You have the same set of data that our peers do at Albany and our share has been holding firm in each region of the world that we participate in.
The better set of data for South America's Bracelpa different organization and it fills similar facts that we're holding our market shares.
We're being pretty disciplined about not trying to grow our shares the wrong way.
We do have the value program that Dave Pretty mentioned and Tom Johnson who is here with us the President of Asia they're employing the same sales strategy in Asia.
And that is to gain positions on machines through trial efforts.
We have explicit program to gain references and to become an approved supplier on different positions on the same machine and on different machines.
And it's a very deliberate process.
We have a plan that we're doing there and we continue to gain additional approval locations in Asia and Europe and the U.S.
So that has been more than offsetting the closures.
And so we track closures also in terms of positions lost and so we've been net gaining approved positions to sell into.
And that's corroborated by industry data that shows that Xerium is holding its market shares.
Your next question comes from line of Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
Could you comment more about your backlog? You guys said year-end backlog was about $174 million I think.
Could you give a similar figure for the backlog at the end of Q3? Backlog in Q3 would have been lower.
We're going to grab that for a minute while Adam we're digging for that we'll answer it I can also tell you that through January and February of this year it's increased.
Okay.
So it's up from $174 million and you're going to grab the Q3 information while we're on the call perfect.
Our backlog actually is higher than $174 million but that's the backlog that's shippable in 1 year.
We also get blanket orders from customers that we have under contract.
So our total backlog is over $200 million but we're reporting the number the way Albany does to be consistent and comparable.
And so our backlog has grown in the first 2 months of this year and it's grown in the right products.
So we're happy that our main products are growing and we're having more success selling into new positions and new customers.
Adam the backlog from the end of Q3 to the end of Q4 grew 2%.
Okay.
In the right direction.
Great.
And could you talk a little bit about more about the new market opportunities.
I know you mentioned it's around $200 million.
But is it that the total you think you could get? Or is it that a total market where you can get a share of that? Maybe you could without giving details talk a little more about how the market opportunity is? Right so the -- there's 3 parts to that.
One is what are these opportunities that we're speaking about.
Some are in paper and some are not in paper.
If you look at our participate -- participation in the pulp and paper industry we do have a few holes in our product line.
And they get down to very specific types of fabrics and rolls and we are filling them through internal product development.
And in several cases there's patents to work around and in several cases we're pursuing our own patents.
But they take a little bit of time to do properly and to have the IPL in order and have the customer references.
So we accelerated several projects that had been talked about here for some time and some actually had some initial efforts.
We also are explicitly growing outside of pulp and paper.
And we've had good -- we've had good success right out of the box.
We like Albany we do participate outside of pulp and paper and probably more broadly because we have a rolls business and there's a lot of machines outside of paper that have rolls on them.
And so that's a business that has a lot of legs to it and we have explicit types of rolls for machines that are not pulp and paper that we are going through approval processes on right now.
So those are the 2 types of -- 2 sets of market opportunities that we're after.
Now in terms of the market opportunity $200 million is the total opportunity set that we're opening up to us.
If we assume our normal market share of around 20% take 20% of that $200 million and that's what we're hoping to get.
Got it.
Okay that's exactly what I was looking for.
Perfect.
Let's see.
In regards to your CapEx this year I think you said it was around $21 million.
You're looking for $32 million this year.
Can you talk about what part of that is maintenance and why the spending is roughly 50% higher this year? We have -- the basket that we have here we account for restructuring dollars in CapEx similarly there's -- in terms of the use of cash for long-term benefits.
Maintenance here it runs around $10 million to $12 million if you look backwards in time.
Haven't challenged that type of spending.
I think it's appropriate if you look at spending per plant for the type of machines we have.
I think that's about right.
I haven't benchmarked it Adam maybe you have against our peers.
But I can tell you the type of spending request that have come in they're valid.
It's work that needs to be done to sustain thus we already have.
With regards to the extra spending over and above that we're being much more aggressive about repositioning our cost structure and pursuing new products.
The products the new products that I was speaking about they do require CapEx they do require machine modifications and we have an opportunity here to permanently take out some plants and eliminate fixed costs.
I mentioned in the last call also that we're looking at 2 low-cost countries for the future home of some of our assets as we close plants.
We're very very close to picking our first location in a low-cost country.
We're not ready to announce it yet.
We're still we're negotiating.
And so we are also -- that requires capital.
That's -- we're not looking to buy buildings.
We're hoping to rent them but there is brick-and-mortar per se for foundations for our type of equipment that we have.
So some of it is in physical plant.
Most of it is machinery and refurbishment and redeployment of existing machines that we have.
Okay.
So maybe I don't want to put words in your mouth but of the $30 million it sounds like maybe 1/3 is maintenance 1/3 might be new product spending and 1/3 perhaps the restructuring charges and cost takeouts.
Would that be fair to say? Or...
I think that's a little heavy on the new product side.
It's more heavily towards cost reduction than that.
We have an opportunity-rich environment here in terms of taking cost out.
And I would say that it's more like 1/2 to 2/3 of it is taking cost out.
A portion of it -- a portion of that is new products but we don't keep track of it that way internally.
So I'm not ducking the question.
We just don't keep it track of it in this manner.
That's okay.
And the last question I had Harold is I think you've been there now what maybe 6 7 months if that's right? That's right.
Can you maybe talk about what are the best things you've seen with the organization? Maybe what are the not so great things from the organization and how you plan to address those and what you've seen in your first 6 or 7 months of going around meeting the employees and going around and seeing the plants? Yes I've been to 19 of the 30 plants.
Dave Pretty is -- and I are leaving for Europe tomorrow.
We're going to hit a few more.
We've been going and basically setting the table for what we want to do going forward here on being more cost-efficiency minded and then also bringing people into the loop -- into the tent if they are connected to a restructuring project.
So our research and projects are touching a lot of people in a lot of plants.
So when you close a plant and redeploy the machines they don't all go to one place.
So there's a lot of people involved with the 4 plants that we're closing right now a lot of people.
And so we're monitoring those.
We have a consistent way of tracking the cost-out projects here.
We have approximately 300 projects.
They're all tracked in the same manner.
They're tracked by the same lady.
They're reporting to Cliff and we track them by each regional presence.
So we're kind of locked and loaded to grind on that one.
In terms of impressions that thing that has borne out to be true is the opportunity to reduce cost permanently.
And we're on a pay-as-you-go program and we are definitely all over that one.
The strongest point we have probably is our product portfolio and product performance.
As I've gone around and met customers and worked with our sales team we have a product portfolio that really is second to none.
We have a lot of #1 positions.
We're #2 globally overall but -- and there's a lot of cases where we're #1.
We're the #1 forming fabric supplier in China.
We're #1 in intelligent SMART rolls.
We're #1 in a lot of spots where you want to be #1.
We're not #1 in some areas that are -- don't make a lot of money.
We're not #1 in dryers.
There's some areas where we're not #1 but our product portfolio is really strong and our people are really all over the next generation of those products.
And the value-selling approach we have which we call "Value Results " works.
And we sell total cost of operating on the line.
And it takes -- it diminishes the talk about pricing.
And we just won a supplier of the year award at Cascades in Canada.
And the reason why we got that award was because we helped them reduce their costs more than anyone and we did that with our premium products.
So that is really neat.
I didn't know that coming in because I'm not from the industry.
And that's -- it's such a solid solid product line.
I'm really happy with what we're doing in Asia.
We're one of the top market suppliers there.
And we're selling the right way and we're getting positions approved at the right customers and the right spots so very sustainable.
So the way that our sales team is going after customers and markets is a sustainable business.
Those are strong impressions that I have.
The team here is really solid industry veterans and our clients really desire sustainability and we're all over that as well.
And our selling approach is -- it's right.
It's very consistent with the market.
We are right in there so I've been very happy with the opportunity to take cost out of the business while sustaining the way that we've always sold.
And by the next generation and the continual evolution of our products I haven't had to touch it.
It's solid.
The only thing I've done is I've accelerated a few gaps that we had in the product line and we'll be rolling out a really really important new product this year in the second half.
I don't want to say what it is yet.
We'll do a press release on it but it's a product we don't offer right now really a hot market in the tissue market globally.
And if you're from the industry you'll figure out what we don't have.
But we're fixing to have one and we're on full development on that.
And we're going to grow in paper.
We're not afraid of paper.
We love paper.
We'll grow in paper and with equal gusto we're going to grow outside of paper.
So I haven't had to do much there but listen and get behind initiatives that we had underway.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
Most of my questions were addressed.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of John Koerber of Bennett.
A lot of my questions have been answered and I greatly appreciate a lot of the commentary.
Could you talk a little bit about Asia because -- this is like a 10-K question I think you guys were down year-over-year in Asia and I was wondering why that occurred? No we weren't down year-over-year.
Sorry for that perception but while the accountants -- No the -- yes sales in Asia were up year-over-year.
I think we had pretty strong year.
Tom you want to...
Yes John this is Tom.
Yes this is Tom Johnson.
I'm the President of Asia.
And so let me talk about Q1 first.
If -- when I take a look at where our sales and orders are for the first 2 months of the quarter we've got very good sales and very strong orders.
The way EBITDA looks so far is it's significantly up over last year.
We've got some processes that as Harold has mentioned earlier in our "Value Results" program where we have documented cost savings at some very significant customers.
And we are seeing a lot of interest in expanding that process.
In fact we've added to that "Value Results" group because at this point going into 2013 we weren't able to deal with all the requests we're getting either for trials or for new value projects.
So for us Asia is looking really good in 2013.
Okay that's great.
A question that no one asked is I think this is the second quarter in a row that you guys haven't done slides.
Is that a policy or do you think in future your calls will contain slides? I'm not against slides.
Actually I took a shot at them they were kind of ugly so I withdrew them.
But I intend to communicate graphically together.
And if you have any favorite slides let Cliff know.
And I would also like to say that Tom's comment that he was making regarding Q1 are through January and February only as are our comments today.
We're obviously not finished with March.
But Asia is really strong for us.
It's not declining it's growing.
We're investing in it.
And we're getting our fair share of that market as it develops and grows.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Just one more.
I think I saw it in one of -- or maybe in the K but you guys expect cash restructuring costs of $10 million this year.
Is that correct? Cash restructuring cost for 2013 or 2012 Richard? Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> 2013.
We're looking.
Oh yes.
Those -- that reference in the 10-K relates to approved programs and the cash that we're going to have to pay on those programs this year.
Anything that has not been announced would not be included so there's no unannounced spending included in that number.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Right.
And that number is not inclusive in the $32 million of CapEx correct? No.
CapEx is a separate component.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then with the rate on your term loan are you guys thinking about doing anything there to potentially reduce your cash interest expense? We're open minded at all times to improve our capital structure.
We have nothing formal underway at this time.
We are definitely evaluating our opportunities including a very hot market as you know.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
In terms of taxes and I don't have the -- we don't have the full -- cash flow statement yet full cash flow statement here but can you tell us what you paid in cash taxes the -- in '12? And what you -- based on your -- I'm not trying to put words in your mouth but you had you have $90 million-ish in adjusted EBITDA in '12 and maybe it will be up  $12 million in '13.
Can you give us a sense of where in -- I don't know it's subject obviously to which market you make money in or lose money in.
But can you give us a sense of where cash taxes will run '12....
Howard the cash taxes in '12 were about $7 million okay.
In '13 we really don't want to give any forward guidance on that.
So I'd prefer not to answer that at this time.
Okay.
So just in terms of sort of the stuff that's coming out of your pocket you got the $32 million for the CapEx.
You got another $10 million for cash restructuring on top of that and then you have another -- and then you have whatever you'll have in cash taxes.
And that's what we know as of today and then based on your current run rate $36 million-ish in cash increase.
Is that...
Yes that's fair.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you Dominique.
Thank you everyone for calling in and being interested in Xerium.
We're pretty excited here.
We know the fourth quarter met some of the external expectations we knew that going in.
We knew that we were going to look at all our accruals at year-end.
We're very happy with our operating performance so if you peel it back on our gross margins and our sales we have a steady business and we're building upon that.
We're taking costs out around that.
We're rightsizing our cost structure around that size of a business.
And we're growing in the right spots and with the right products.
So couple of comments were made here obviously on -- relative to the first quarter January and February are just fine.
Quarter is not over but we were happy to make those.
And we really appreciate the questions that were there.
If you have any follow-up questions afterwards feel free to contact Cliff Pietrafitta or Kevin McDougall.
With that I'd like to close the call.
And thank you for calling in.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.