Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on May 8 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Tuesday May 7 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 8 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's first quarter performance.
I'd also like to inform you that the senior executives of Xerium are on the phone with us to participate during the question-and-answer session.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2013 was $29.1 million bringing last 12 months EBITDA up to $99.6 million or 18.3% of net sales.
The quarterly EBITDA performance was an increase of 41% from $20.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and an increase of 55% versus the first quarter of 2012.
The sequential increase reflects a  better-than-expected sales mix in the first quarter of 2013 compared to a worse-than-average mix in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our gross margin performance over the past 12 months is fairly consistent with our goal of a 37% gross margin baseline and our cost-reduction initiatives are on track in the quarter.
Net sales for the quarter were $139.8 million.
The industries served by Xerium remain stable globally overall according to external forecast.
Net sales and margins in the first quarter were higher than last year's averages due to normal fluctuations in the timing of sales and product mix.
We remain optimistic that external market forecasts are realistic and that our sales performance will continue to be similar.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter remained solid at $166 million.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $400.9 million and last 12 months EBITDA was $99.6 million as I just mentioned creating net leverage of 4.0x.
We are currently underway with a refinancing of a portion of our debt.
We are pleased with the company's first quarter of 2013 results.
Our sales performance has been fairly consistent now for the last year with normal quarter-to-quarter sales mix variations.
If you look at our sales over a few quarters the business has been pretty steady.
We have some regional contractions and/or expansions due primarily to paper and containerboard segment shifts that are well documented.
We are underway with some fundamental repositioning activities and they are on track.
Our actions in the quarter were on pace to achieve the previously announced plan to lower our costs $12 million net year-over-year in 2013.
With regards to a potential refinancing of a portion of our debt we remain optimistic that we'll complete this refinancing in May and we will issue a press release at that time describing the terms of the refinancing.
Now I'll turn the call over to with Cliff Pietrafitta for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Sales for the quarter increased 4% to $139.8 million from $134.4 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Sales volume increased 4.8% from an operational standpoint offset by 0.8% of unfavorable currency effects compared to the first quarter of 2012.
This operational increase was comprised of a 2.4% increase in our clothing business and a 9.5% increase in our rolls business primarily as a result of increased strength in Asia North America and Europe.
On a sequential basis sales for the first quarter increased 4.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Machine clothing sales were up 1.7% while roll sales improved 9.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Compared to the fourth quarter of '12 machine clothing improved in Asia and Europe while the improvement in our rolls business was largely due to increased roll cover sales in North America and Europe.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 39% of sales in the first quarter of 2013 from 34.6% of sales in the first quarter of 2012 largely as a result of reduced operating costs as a result of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies favorable product mix and favorable currency impacts.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 gross margin dollars improved 16% while gross margin as a percentage of sales improved from 35.1% to 39% of sales in the first quarter of 2013 as higher sales volume incremental savings from cost-reduction programs and favorable product mix combined to significantly improve gross profit and gross margins in the quarter.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs decreased 11.2% to $35.8 million for the first quarter of 2013 from $40.3 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The favorable variance to the prior year's first quarter is due to: savings achieved from our restructuring and cost-reduction activities; the absence of CEO transition costs from 2012; a gain from the recovery of insurance proceeds from a plant fire; and favorable currency effects.
Restructuring cost decreased to $1.3 million in the quarter from $4 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The decrease is largely attributable to the termination of a sales agency agreement in Europe in 2012.
2013 cost of $1.3 million included severance and other costs related to headcount reductions as well as shutdown costs related to operations in France and Argentina.
Income from operations increased in the first quarter of 2013 to $17.4 million from $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Improved sales volume higher gross margins lower SG&amp;A and research and development costs all contributed to this positive result.
Net interest expense improved 4.2% to $9.2 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $9.6 million in the first quarter of 2012.
This decline in interest expense reflects lower debt balances and favorable currency effects offset by a 75 basis point increase in the interest rate of our bank debt related to the amendment of our bank facilities in June 2012.
Cash interest expense in the quarters ended March 31 2013 and 2012 was $8.5 million.
Income tax expense increased to $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in income tax reflects the improvement in our pretax results from a pretax loss of $6.9 million in the first quarter of 2012 to pretax income of $8 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our overall effective tax rate for the period presented was 31.3% and is currently expected to be 55.4% for the full year.
The volatility in our effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
We expect cash taxes to be approximately 35.4% of pretax income for the full year.
Net income and diluted earnings per share increased to a net income of $5.5 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013 from a net loss of $7.5 million or $0.50 in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides both a liquidity and financial performance measure of our business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2013 increased to $29.1 million from $18.8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Trade working capital increased to $138.7 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $131.1 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase primarily reflects the impact of higher sales on quarter-end accounts receivable.
Day sales outstanding at the end of the first quarter improved to 57.1 days from 59.7 days at the end of last year.
Cash expenditures for the year-to-date period ended March 31 2013 totaled $3.7 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $34 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $10.3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $4.7 million in the quarter.
At quarter end we had $40.8 million of cash on hand and $24.9 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
At this point I would like to point out a minor correction to the adjusted EBITDA reconciliation on the last page of the press release.
The heading in the last column should read 12 months ended March 31 2013.
Thank you Cliff.
With that it concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for questions.
Danita may we have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus with Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> So as far as the $12 million of net cost saves go can you guys just update us on where you were on a run rate basis as of the end of the first quarter? And then maybe a little bit on how you expect the remainder of that to phase in throughout the rest of the year? Yes Richard.
We really were right on track with where we expected to be and really have no change to that guidance at this point.
We expect to hit the $12 million as we discussed last quarter.
I can elaborate Richard a little bit on that.
We're -- we have yet to take all actions.
So there are additional actions planned for cost reduction in the second quarter and in the third quarter so we're not at full run rate yet Richard there's a build through the year.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> And then with regards to the positive mix that you guys saw in the quarter do you see that carrying over into 2Q a little bit? What are your expectations there? And then if you could actually just provide a little bit of additional detail on what constituted that favorable product mix would be great.
Sure.
Globally our sales are in line with the external forecast that we all see from RISI of a little bit of growth this year versus last year.
We're seeing that and our sales rates are continuing along those lines in the quarter that we're in.
We continue to have a healthy backlog and the mix that we refer to -- a good mix for us as you can see our releases rolls are a little more profitable than clothing and we reported that our roll sales were up in the quarter higher than our unit sales of clothing.
So we -- that's the positive mix.
Rolls did better than clothing and therefore we benefited from that.
That's going to come and go though because rolls are somewhat at the discretion of our customer when they pick them up.
We repair them when we receive them and they pick them up and reinstall them or position them as a spare at their convenience.
So the sales rate in rolls are a little bit lumpy.
We expect the mix to calm down a little bit in this quarter back to kind of the historical averages and we're already seeing that a little bit.
Richard I would add that the mix within those product lines within PMC and within rolls was also favorable.
So we saw sales of higher-margin products in a bit of an unusual or -- unusual pattern.
That varies from quarter-to-quarter.
So where we had 39% margins in the first quarter we would expect that over time based on the current book of business 37% is a good target for us as we look forward.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
Very helpful.
And then lastly with regards to the capital structure and everything you guys have been doing out there in the market.
Are you guys are comfortable with where the cap structure is right now? Do you see opportunity for further bond repurchases that kind of thing? Well we have opportunity to do that and we will do that from time to time if the economics are proper.
You probably can see that our bonds are bid at 104 right now too.
But if market conditions change that might be an opportunity.
But we have the opportunity to pay our debt down each strata as we have the spare cash to do so and we intend to continue to delever.
That is the goal of the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans with Value Advisory.
It's actually Brian Warner.
In your 10-Q you make a reference to -- in response to some I guess inquiries from some of your customers you are mitigating some initiatives -- and I cannot remember whether you called it the mechanical services or what I might call the maintenance biz.
Can you just give us a little color on that? Sort of if you've actually taken any initiatives towards that end and what that business might mean to the company? Yes.
Brian this is Harold.
I'm going to answer it a little bit and then I'm going to ask Dave Pretty to step in he's our President of the U.S -- North America and Europe -- to elaborate.
The services -- the roll repair business is largely a service business.
We're repairing a part of the machine that is worn down through use.
And the machines come out with these new OEM equipment when they buy new machines and then they're repaired and serviced over their lifetime and we're an expert at doing that.
We're one of the largest in the world at providing that service.
As time has gone by and as some of the paper mills have downsized their technical staff they've asked for more and more services to be provided by their suppliers and that includes vibration testing nondestructive testing to look for cracks in cores and this kind of a thing as well as machining of and repair and refurbishment of suction boxes and mechanical ends.
And we're all over that topic.
And what we do by bundling the sale of a new piece of clothing with the recovered roll we're really after the performance of the nip.
And that particular area of the machine is where a lot of important things happen for the fiber orientation the water extraction the energy usage to create either paperboard cardboard corrugated medium or paper.
And so the engineering of that nip is a big deal.
And the maintenance of that nip is a big deal.
And so there's a lot of ancillary equipment around that and measurements around that.
And we have both pushed that as an agenda and then pulled into it as our customers have become aware of that and as they've downsized their own teams.
So it's a growing area of our business.
We are investing into it.
We are adding people and know-how into it and it's working quite well.
And as you can see from our early [ph] statements it's accretive.
I'm going to turn the mic over here to Dave Pretty for any additional elaboration on that.
David? Yes thank you Harold.
I think in short the idea that our clients have outsourced their maintenance work on their rolls we're creating an environment where we're a one-stop shop.
So not only do we create value with our clothing and our coverage  technology we're able to address the maintenance issues the refurbishment of the rolls inside our facilities.
And that momentum has gone over really well with our client base.
And as a result we've added capability we've added shifts to our rolls facilities and we see that agenda moving forward into the ensuing years.
So it's a great platform to work from.
Your next question comes from the line of John Robert (sic) [Koerber] with Bennett Management.
My name is John Koerber.
I've got a couple of questions.
You talked about the 37% gross margin.
For clarification is that the number you're targeting? Or with any additional cost saves or the costs you're taking out of the system will it be better than 37%? It's -- I'm not clear on that.
That's a good question.
37% is our historical baseline and we do want to add to it.
We also have inflation in the business wage inflation medical cost inflation and -- but our goal our multi-year goal is to work that number up.
For this year the guidance and expectations that we're setting for others is to expect 37% out of us.
We certainly are trying to move that up over time through both sales mix actions specifically the comments that were just made about rolls and services are -- push that number up but also through our actions to reduce our fixed overhead cost structure and our low-cost country production program.
So we want to move that up.
We haven't given guidance on -- a multi-year guidance on what we're trying to do there.
And so we've been saying that number because it's been a historical number for us and we also said it because the first quarter was higher than what we had expected and it was really sales mix dictated.
So that should be what you expect from us this year John.
In a multi-year plan we are trying to move it up.
I'll ask Cliff if -- Cliff Pietrafitta if he has any further comments.
No I agree with that.
The 37% is really our historical baseline.
As we have initiatives to improve margins we would like to see that rate move up.
But there is as Harold mentioned there is wage inflation and things like that the are going to be an offset as we go forward.
So at this point in time we're really focused on ensuring that the market understands that our historical run rates when you average out the quarters is around that 37% level.
Okay.
I have some clean-up or clarifying questions then.
I see on your balance sheet and it kind of showed up at -- in the 10-K but I didn't pick it up then you have a note payable in your current liabilities.
What is that? That is an Austrian working capital loan.
Basically we use the proceeds from that to pay down our bank debt so it was really just an arbitrage on interest rates that we used to enhance the working capital structure.
Do you anticipate that you'll be paying that off or is that a permanent part of your capital structure even if it's in current liabilities? We don't anticipate paying it off right now.
We like that piece debt.
And right now there's no plan to pay that off.
Okay.
What -- you gave us backlog at year -- at the quarter at $166 million.
I don't have it on my spreadsheet.
What was backlog at year end? It was a little higher.
We worked a little off.
The plants had a good quarter for us particularly in the rolls.
We have quite a bit of backlog here and we've authorized our plants to staff up in certain instances where our lead times are too long.
We're sensitive to our lead times to our customers.
They do have schedules they manage around for shutdowns and preventive maintenance schedules.
So we thought our lead times was getting a bit long and we authorized working down the backlog a little bit.
Okay.
Finally I believe in the K you gave out this breakout that paper producers were about 81% of your sales paper machine manufacturers were 7% and other industrial apps were around 12%.
In the first quarter did that -- did those percentages hold or are they different? And what I'm really trying to get at it is I know you've talked about perhaps finding other industrial users for your product and has there been any success in doing that? Well I can tell you that the market for our building products the fiber cement felt as the building industry has recovered definitely in North America and Asia has continued to power through right through all of this.
Our building products business continues to grow.
We have a great product line there.
We're one of the global leaders in providing that.
And we've seen our sales activities outside of paper continue to gain strength.
With regards to the ratios and percents we don't really track that that much.
I would guess that to be similar there wasn't really any huge event that happened.
There's incremental positive sales actions.
And Cliff we don't track that separately...
We track it for the annual report that's not something we'll track quarterly.
Okay.
And I guess every call I always ask to see a slide presentation.
I'd be remissed if I forgot to do that again this quarter.
But Harold I'm getting the sense that you really don't believe in slides.
I like slides.
That's what you said last time.
What slide is it that you really want John? Market penetration on different types of paper machine.
I'll make a -- I'll comment on it next time.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer with Pressprich.
Can you talk a little bit about inventory levels at your customers and what you're seeing from them right now? Yes that's one we don't track at my level.
If you don't mind can I go around the horn [ph] to our business president? Sure.
Whatever you want.
I'll start with Tom Johnson who's our President of Asia.
Adam what we're seeing is based on the country and I'll give Indonesia as an example.
We're seeing our customer inventories down.
We're seeing good demand out of Indonesia.
China on the other hand would be running at a steady state.
Japan slightly down.
Overall probably running to average.
Not much change? No.
Dave Pretty could you -- President of North America and Europe could you comment please? Sure Harold.
Adam as far as the North American theater is concerned really with the contracts and the agreements that we have in place whether it's consignment or we share the inventory burden we have seen no momentum changes in our markets here.
Certainly nothing commercially that's changed it.
With respect to Europe while again managing the balance sheet is important for our clients it's the same for us.
And so one of the strengths that we've had is being able to negotiate with our clients and set terms for inventory.
We've seen no momentum shifts in Europe with the client base that we deal with either.
And I can say I know Eduardo Fracasso's on the phone he's our President of South America I know he's on mute right now I'll answer for him.
There have been some new machines in South America built for pulp for making of pulp.
So there's been some new OEM machines have gone in.
And regarding the production of paper the paper industry's pretty flat there and to my knowledge there's not much change in customer inventories.
Okay that's great.
I really appreciate that.
Do you -- can you comment at all about what you're seeing for Q2 in terms of revenues versus Q1 or versus last year at this time with the quarter half over? Yes our revenue's going to be similar to the first quarter.
We haven't had any change with regards to the momentum we have in the business.
As Cliff and I both mentioned our mix is going to be not as good in the second quarter as the first quarter.
The quarter's not over.
We're still working that.
But first quarter was exceptionally good.
Our sales performance was good.
We were up in the Americas up in Europe up in Asia and we still have the same momentum.
We didn't do anything natural -- that's -- unnatural -- that's natural momentum we have and it is still underway in April.
We do know April now.
April was fine to your point and we have a nice a backlog and not much change in the business.
The sales is going to be similar.
Your next question comes from the line of Prateek Gupta with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the general decline in the writing grade paper.
As that segment of the paper industry shrinks at least in the -- at least in this part of the world how does that affect your sales? I mean do your customers demand cheaper products from you guys or -- and does that impact your margins at all? Can you comment on that? Yes printing and writing decline globally is a big deal for the whole industry.
Printing in the fine paper grades use a high-end forming fabric and they use pretty good press felts.
And so the industry is impacted by that.
The iPad came out in 2010.
There are now through January was 31% of adults in North America have one.
So the tablet and electronic communications substitution for written printing and writing is well underway.
And if you go to a RISI  conference or look at desktop materials in the industry that is a market segment that will decline.
Xerium is very diversified across all grades of paper.
And if you look at the offset to the decline it's really in GDP-related materials tissue packaging -- that would be corrugated box board containerboard.
And so if you look at GDP in North America it's 2.5% growth right now expected to go to 3.5% by year end.
Europe is still in a recession at the end of Q1 but expected to come out of it in this quarter.
And Asia's still growing strongly.
China reported 8% GDP growth and their outlook for the next 3 years is for 8%.
Again so if you look at those grades we're up and we're participating in those increases.
Fiber cement is a certain type of felt also that's up a lot.
If you look at housing starts in North America they're around 800 000 start rate right now and expected to go back to 1.2 million 1.3 million.
And so we're seeing significant growth in those type of products.
So printing and writing does matter.
It has a mix impact so fiber cement is heavier on the felt side less on the forming side.
Tissue's heavier on the forming side.
Containerboard has a little of both.
So there's some net movement of specific products that are important to note.
And when we talk about repositioning the company that's exactly what we're talking about.
We're talking about getting organized around these market shifts.
We're very diversified.
We have the assets to do this.
But it does require action.
And we also are having to act to address these growing markets.
We're seeing strong growth in certain grades of products that we have and extended lead times.
So we did announce also Prateek earlier that we had ordered a Delo machine which is a big huge -- installed those are $10 million.
And ancillary equipment that go around it.
So we're actually adding capacity in the growing segments and in the areas that are shrinking we're repositioning our assets into the markets that are growing.
So we have a geographic mix that's happening and then we have a grade-specific mix.
We have the assets to do this in most cases.
But -- in these really high-end products that we were machine-constrained and we have ordered some new equipment to pursue that growth.
And in our multi-year outlook we will continue to do so.
We're just on the verge of authorizing our next round of equipment in that arena.
And we've discussed previously that we're looking at China and Mexico as low-cost country destinations for production and that requires some investment as well.
So printing and writing decline is alive and well.
The boom and bust that happened in North America and is happening in Europe is not predicted to happen in China for instance.
They've gone directly to electronic communications.
So they're not expected to see disruption that has happened in North America first which really hammered Canada and then the U.S.
as those grades went away and machines that were custom designed to do printing and writing grades of paper as those companies restructured -- and closed down -- that disruption is not expected to hit Asia.
So we're not seeing the boom and bust.
We're seeing the GDP-type products growing there.
So I think it's just going to be something that doesn't happen in Asia predominantly.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So as you focus on aligning yourself with the mix what do you see in terms of CapEx requirements for this year and maybe the next 2 3 years if you have visibility into that? As Cliff mentioned our budget guidance for this year is $34 million and our multi-year outlook is $30 million so this year is a little higher than normal because we are doing some -- a little stronger set of restructuring actions than normal.
We do intend to -- we do have a multi-year restructuring plan and buildup plan so we do -- we are growing in Asia significantly.
We grew in the quarter.
We're growing now.
It's a growth market for us.
We have a very diversified product line there.
We have 5 plants in the region.
We recover rolls we provide roll services we make machine clothing there we have a bundled sale it's a big deal for us and we're right in the middle of it.
And we will continue to add assets in the region as it grows.
We don't have the amount of extra capacity needed.
If you look out over a 5-year timeframe and look at the amount of growth that's going to happen in that region we have to continue to move assets there and buy new assets that are dialed in for that market.
The electrical requirements of equipment are different there than some of our machines in other regions and there are import duties on machines as well.
So in some cases it's smarter to buy a new machines that's already built for that market.
And so we continue to go through that as we look at how to get the capacity in place to secure our market share in that region.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I've missed this but did you guys provide a guidance for 2013? Are you updating it? Anything on that front please? No we gave guidance in the first quarter that we would pull out $12 million of cost net this year net for wage inflation and for bonuses.
We had a wage increase.
We had a wage freeze that we've relieved now and we didn't pay bonuses last year and we're on track to pay bonuses this year.
So we're absorbing that and signing up for $12 million net of cost out of the business.
And someone on the last call asked "Should I just add that to last year's EBITDA." And I said "Yes that will be fine." And our first quarter was ahead of that guidance.
I'm not updating the guidance yet but yes we're ahead of it at this point in time.
So we're happy to be ahead of our guidance.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Harold Bevis for any closing remarks.
Thank you for that.
I appreciate everyone calling in.
It was a good quarter for us.
We were up in the  Americas up in Europe up in Asia.
Our sales and service and technical teams are doing a great job for us.
We continue to bundle our sale of rolls PMC and services.
It's working commercially.
I don't think you should expect step-change performance out of us but you should expect us to continue along the path that we are on.
This quarter -- the start to this quarter is similar to last quarter so I'm happy with the performance of our plants and our teams that are out there.
Appreciate everyone calling in.
The paper industry is definitely undergoing change we're changing with it.
And the non-paper industries that we are participating in are growing quite strongly and we have good shares there.
And you will see us make an announcement before the next call regarding our financial -- refinancing that we're doing excuse me of a portion of our bank debt.
And as we make decisions regarding our low-cost country locations and the moves that we'll make we'll put out a press release on that as well.
So you should expect to see us talking about the repositioning and restructuring activities that we have undergoing here.
And I hope to report a good quarter in our next call.
With that I'd like to end the call and thank everyone for participating today.
Thank you Danita.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.