Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on August 2 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Thursday August 1 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Thursday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 2 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance.
And therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's second quarter performance.
I'd like to start off with significant highlights from the quarter and year-to-date periods.
Our quarter 2 sales were $138 million up 1.8% versus the prior year on a constant currency basis and our roll repair and mechanical services business unit grew 5% year-to-date which was higher growth than industry rates indicating a secular shift to outsource these services.
We also kicked off 10 new product development programs in 2013 so far aimed at generating incremental future sales growth above current rates and we have received 16 new patents this year so far with more expected in the next quarter.
We began implementing the previously announced 350-ton press felt expansion in multiple countries and also began implementing an expansion of our roll repair and mechanical services capacity at several roll service centers.
Both of these are aimed at generating incremental future sales growth above our current rates.
We continue the transformation of our operational structure with the previously announced closure of 4 manufacturing facilities and the expansion of 6 other manufacturing facilities.
Redeployment of the affected assets is underway.
Our sales per employee in the first half of 2013 are at a 4-year high of $173 000 per employee.
Our order backlog at June 30 2013 remained solid at $130 million -- $161 million.
In the quarter in the second quarter versus the second quarter of last year Xerium's orders overall were up 10% and in clothing only our orders were up 13%.
Pricing year-to-date for Xerium overall is stable and we've seen stability across the whole company with a few puts and takes across the regions.
In the second quarter we also refinanced a portion of our debt structure to increase liquidity lengthen our debt maturities and eliminate maintenance covenants while leaving our European assets unencumbered.
Also in the second quarter we incorporated a $75 million debt expansion provision into our new debt structure that can be used for bolt-on acquisitions or accelerating restructuring initiatives.
Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $26.9 million up 6% versus the prior year and increased our last 12-month adjusted EBITDA to $101.1 million which is also up 6% over the same prior period and is expected to increase in the second half of 2013.
Our net debt is $407.8 million and our leverage now stands at 4.0x.
Our 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA is now $56.0 million an increase of 27% over last year and ahead of our internal plans.
On a constant currency basis we expect the second half to be similar to the first half.
Xerium's stock has been added to 3 Russell equity indexes and our options on our stock have become available now on 4 exchanges.
The second quarter was another good quarter for both of our businesses.
Our synthetic textiles business and our service and repair business.
The paper industry is our primary end market and the industry growth is 1% or 2% according to published sources.
Our service and repair business continues to grow a little higher than that rate indicating a shift by our customers to perform these services externally versus internally.
A large portion of our higher growing areas are capacity limited and we are working to resolve these bottlenecks.
In almost all cases there are long lead times involved.
But we are setting the stage for higher growth and lower cost pointed at higher growing market opportunities.
These are long-term moves for the company.
Additionally we're expanding and increasing our sales growth initiatives especially outside of our core legacy markets.
I've personally been at Xerium less than a year.
However I have had the good opportunity to visit and assess almost all of our plants globally and have now met with all of our sales forces and technical teams.
Our unified goal is to think ahead and implement a lower-cost higher-growth business platform.
We have closed 4 plants so far and we do have a few more to go.
At the same time we've added technical staff we've added new product development programs and we've added high-end factory workers to advance our offerings.
We are transforming our company both operationally and commercially yet we are moving at a measured pace in order to ensure our expected quality levels.
We're also expanding plants in several areas as I've previously mentioned especially Asia geographically and our service product offering.
Xerium's skilled mechanics and our machinists are definitely a differentiator providing superior quality and customer value.
We have a very strong team and deep technology in what we do.
The second half of this year looks solid from an external forecast and backlog and we see the same in the fundamentals of the business.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Cliff? Thank you Harold.
Net sales in the second quarter were $138.3 million an increase of 1.4% compared to $136.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $500 000 second quarter 2013 net sales increased 1.8% from the second quarter of 2012 with an increase of 2.3% in the clothing segment and an increase of 0.8% in the rolls cover segment.
Net sales for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 were $278.1 million an increase of 2.7% from $270.7 million in 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $1.5 million net sales for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 increased 3.3% from 2012 with an increase of 2.4% in the clothing segment and an increase of 5% in the rolls cover segment.
Gross profit increased $1.7 million or 3.3% and gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 38.1% of sales in the second quarter of 2013 from 37.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2012.
These improved results were largely as a result of reduced operating cost due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies.
For the 6 months ended June 30 2013 gross profit increased by 10% and gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 38.5% from 36% for the 6 months in 2012 as higher sales volume incremental savings from cost-reduction programs and favorable product mix combined to significantly improve gross profit and gross margins in the first half of the year.
Selling general and administrative expense and research and development cost decreased 0.8% to $35.7 million for the second quarter of 2013 from $36 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This favorable variance is due to savings achieved from our restructuring of cost reduction activities and the absence of CEO transition costs in 2013.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase of management incentive expense in 2013 and the reversal in 2012 of a contingent liability that was favorably resolved.
Restructuring cost increased to $4.2 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $1.1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
These included charges relating to previously announced headcount reductions the closure of clothing facilities in Spain and Argentina and the closure of a rolls facility in Charlotte North Carolina.
Net interest expense increased to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $9.1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase is primarily due to the financing fees paid in connection with our May 2013 refinancing that were charged to interest expense.
In addition we also recorded $3.1 million of loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of deferred financing costs related to our prior senior debt offering.
Cash interest expense or interest expense less amortization deferred financing costs and refinancing fees from our recent refinancing was $8.6 million for the second quarter of 2013 and $8.4 million for the second quarter of 2012.
In addition during the second quarter of 2013 we paid $7.4 million cash for fees related to the May 2013 refinancing of a portion of our debt $3.7 million was charged to interest expense and $3.7 million was capitalized and included in the deferred financing costs and long-term debt on the balance sheet.
Income tax increased to $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the restructuring and debt refinancing expenses our effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2013 was 32%.
This overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit.
Our effective tax rate for the entire year is expected to be 84% or 33% excluding the restructuring and debt refinancing expense.
The volatility in our effective tax rates reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as in the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share decreased to a net loss of $6.9 million or 45% per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013 from net income of $2.2 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the refinancing fees the loss on early extinguishment of debt and restructuring cost net income would have increased in 2013 as a result of increased net sales and our cost reduction initiatives during the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure which provides both the liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2013 increased to $26.9 million from $25.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA increased 27% to $56 million in 2013 from $44.2 million in 2012.
Trade working capital increased to $136.1 million at June 30 from $131.1 million at December 31 2012.
The increase was the result of increased sales volume impact on accounts receivable and a decrease in accounts payable as a result of increased capital expenditures at December 31 2012.
These increases were partially offset by decreased inventories on increased sales volume.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended June 30 2013 totaled $8.5 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $33 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $12.3 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $10.1 million in the quarter.
At quarter end we had $36.5 million of cash on hand and $29 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> First question here.
Can you give us a little bit of an update on the amount of cost savings that you guys have achieved in numbers year-to-date relative to what your run rate is as you exit 2Q? Yes we can.
I'll do the first half Cliff you want to do the second half.
Sure.
Richard we're -- I think you know we're still kicking off new initiatives as we go here.
We're kind of pacing our activities to our ability to implement in a quality manner.
And we're not at full run rate yet.
We did have a plan this year to progressively add layers of cost take out and to pursue footprint restructuring when we were through with the first step that we were implementing.
So we're on that plan.
We're slightly ahead of ourselves -- of our plans in terms of taking actions and receiving the benefits of them.
And with regards to quantification of that Cliff I'll turn it to you.
Sure.
Richard we -- our savings for the first half of the year are going to be about $8 million for the first half okay.
So we are expecting that's ramping up.
We do expect to have increased savings as we go through the rest of the year.
Previously I had gone on the record -- if you remember Richard for the full year we're trying to get $12 million.
We have given that guidance out last time and we're ahead of our internal plan to do that.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
So that $8 million is actually a cost savings that you already realized? The $8 million is the gross cost savings that we realized year-to-date over last year yes.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then with regards to the margin performance you guys did pretty well there.
I'm talking gross margin here.
Do you believe that this 38-or-so percent level is something that's more normalized based on your mix this quarter? Or I know we have additional cost reduction actions but do we get further improvement in here based upon a more normalized mix? We have internal plans to improve that on a continuous improvement basis.
So if you look at what waste reduction and our procurement program does that does improve our gross profit.
So our profits and cost of goods sold do go down when we have less waste or we procure materials lower cost.
So we do have a plan to improve our gross profit per unit.
On a mix basis globally we see the same thing that Albany and others see which is the decline of graphical and printing and writing grades in the clothing side and the increases on the brown paper and the GMP kind of businesses.
And that's a negative mix for the industry and for us.
Overall we're trying to hold our gross profits were they are which will cause us to increase the gross profits on our line item basis.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay okay.
And then lastly it sounds like things are going pretty well in the roll and repair and mechanical services business.
How big do you envision this business getting and what kind of gross margins are you seeing relative to your other business? Well on the size of it this is a very very very large market.
This is the market where -- we're in this business and Albany is not.
So we compete against machine builders in this.
And this is where we go up against Voith and Metso and the machine guys who make a living in the aftermarket of repairing and caring and refurbishing machines that are installed.
And we're in that business.
And if you look at the turmoil that's happened in the industry globally a lot of our customers have trimmed their payroll they've rightsized their plant staffs and they've outsourced -- they continuously outsource these services.
We've been progressively stepping forward into that and since it was a natural thing for us to do because our rolls business fundamentally is an aftermarket repair and refurbishment business.
And so we continuously were getting asked to do more and more.
And we just aggressively said yes more and we've added capabilities.
For us that ends up being hiring training and doing apprenticeships for high-end mechanics.
We find ourselves with mechanical parts honing them refining lathes bearing structures turned parts that turned mechanical parts on the machines.
We find ourselves doing it on the machine in the plant.
We find ourselves taking these parts back to our shop.
They set the preference at the customer.
So it's a very very very large market.
And it's just not paper it's also in the flexible packaging industry the fiber cement industry non-woven production.
So the repair of large machines is a big big business.
There's no good third-party data and I've tried to look for it Richard because I've tried to see what our market share is for doing it.
As best we can tell us and Voith and that sort of the biggest guys globally doing it.
On the gross margin and gross profit Cliff? Mechanical services are generally in line or are higher than our roll cover business.
However there is a segment that we at this point are outsourcing and we get lower margins in that particular piece.
It really comes down to the mix of that business but it is a growth opportunity as we continue to invest in that business.
It's very similar to the rest of the business Richard.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Sure.
Okay.
And it sounds like that's something actually makes your other products stickier as well.
So it seems like that's definitely a good thing.
Your next question comes from the line of James Gentile [ph] of Greenhouse Fund.
I had a question about further restructuring.
Harold you quantified that there were "few more plants" that you would like to address in the coming periods.
Wondering if you could kind of give us a timeline and if it would mean that there could perhaps be another $12 million of cost saves in the system over some period of time in the future? Thanks James.
Definitely we see big projects left to do.
We've tried to be disciplined here and only spend a certain amount of money on CapEx and restructuring so that we don't get out of our skis with the model.
We do like to continue to pay debt down.
We could go faster that's a board-level talk on the pace at which we go.
We like the pace that we're at because we don't have an unlimited ability to implement large-scale projects either.
We have if you compare our gross profits in our clothing business to the gross profits to Albany who's a public reporter you'll see that theirs are a little better.
We had [indiscernible] ourselves.
They fixed themselves if you will a few years ahead of us.
They have bigger portion of their production in low-cost countries.
They're making a large part of their yarn.
They're getting a little bit better overhead absorption benefits due to their size also.
They're bigger than us twice as big actually.
For the parts that we can overcome we know how to overcome them and it does require big projects.
I can tell you that we have more left to do than we have done.
We haven't given guidance out yet in terms of long-term EBITDA for the company but we have very large projects left to do.
That's great Harold.
And just given some of the craziness in the market with GAAP EPS headlines and stuff I just wanted to go over the restructuring and financing cost.
And perhaps my math as I ran it through your P&amp;L if you had $12.8 million of operating income add back $4.2 million subtract your cash interest expense which I believe would be sustainable in this kind of $8.6 million plus a little bit range and tax it at your 32%.
The quarter looked between $0.33 and $0.37 if I look at -- if I included the small amount of amortization on that interest expense line to bring that up to $9.1 million.
Am I thinking about the quarter correctly? Yes.
I think that's accurate.
I would also look at it this way the restructuring cost we're a little late on and our capital spending has been a little lower in the first half of the year.
We expect both of those to be a little heavier from a timing aspect in the second half.
Great.
And then there is just one little commentary in the way of a certain bottlenecks in your faster growing higher-margin businesses.
I was wondering if you can kind of help us frame the dilution on the margins from that kind of -- from those bottleneck issues that you said over time will be alleviated? Well it really constrained our sales line.
We're more or less sold out in press felt production and that's why we announced the 350 ton expansion and the very short-term press felt plants are very capital-intensive.
And in the short term what we try to do is just optimize our operations where they are and increase our production.
And we have been doing that.
We did order a long lead time equipment for the next efficient unit of capacity for press felt production and we're looking at putting that in a low-cost country or our lowest cost operation ourself.
That's definitely a board decision and we're closing in on what we want to do there.
We haven't decided and we haven't made that public yet.
But we're flat out expanding our capacity with new machines and we're optimizing the existing capacity we have also.
So I wouldn't say it's a dilution really it's really a constraint.
Just slower growth on the top line.
That's great.
Yes.
It seems like the underlying free cash flow and margin story is very much intact here.
Good work.
I'm interested in watching the story unfold in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
Harold regarding the -- you just made a comment regarding the press felt operation and the add of 350.
Could you quantify that? I don't know how big your press felt is and just give us a little more color as to what that can add? You mean dollar bills? Yes.
The sales line -- help me out guys.
240 is about -- I'm going to say it's around $30 million of sales at our normal rates.
Okay.
And you had said previously -- I'm still trying to get my hands around the whole tax situation and I know it's very complicated.
In terms of cash tax situation I know it's a subject of -- a function of where you make money and -- how should we be thinking about that? Well the cash taxes for the year we expect to be around $10 million -- I'm sorry $5 million.
That's a wrong number.
I'm sorry $5 million or $10 million? $5 million.
I picked up the wrong number my bad.
$5 million.
Okay.
And where do you feel like you are in terms of the capacity move from where -- Europe where you are -- have too much capacity and Asia where you don't have enough.
Where do you feel you are along in terms of being able to correct that? Well we have -- let's start with orders and then production.
On the orders in the second quarter on a constant currency basis our orders were up in Europe.
Our orders are up in Asia.
Our orders are up in North America.
Our orders are up in South America.
So -- and the market is up according to the RISI external information.
So we're up.
Our order increases in Asia they are accretive to the overall company gave out -- company numbers I gave out previously in my talk.
And you're right we do supplement our production in the region with production in other regions.
But we've optimized our raw material set ups on our looms and machines to produce certain products for everyone.
We have a low-cost logistic system that we partner with and do.
We have a container kind of a milk run we do from our plants to a single warehouse in Singapore and ship directly from there to customers.
It's quite good and it works.
It's low cost.
So we don't find ourselves at a disadvantage there and that's been going on for quite a long time.
So we do have some imbalances across the geographies yes we do.
But in the cases where we're long in capacity they're in our lower-cost locations.
So we're not extremely disadvantaged.
But if we look at putting in new capacity we certainly would want to be in the trade market.
And that's what our intentions are.
So on the rolls and services business that's quite different.
That's about regional competitiveness.
Rolls are heavy.
They weigh up to 80 tons.
You need to be close to the action and more and more we're getting a call out to do this service in the plant itself.
So we have a big service staff in that side of our business.
If you look at -- this customer back Albany is about twice the size that we are in clothing.
But we have 3 different product lines.
We have clothing coverings and mechanical services.
So to our customers we're just as large but we're selling them 3 different things.
And so we have that staff in there.
They're very trained.
They're very skilled because they have to know how to apply clothing.
They have to know how to do assessments on roll covers and especially the SMART roll offering and ever-increasing being able to have the mechanical services on the machines.
So our staff that we have out there we can afford really high-end trained staff because they're selling 3 different product lines.
So they held it together.
Where the product comes from our customers are a little bit indifferent.
We have the same quality standards in all the plants.
In terms of profitability on the table yes there's a little bit of efficiency there on logistics but we do have a low-cost logistic set up that works quite well and we partner with one of the largest freight carriers [ph] in the world.
A few more quickies.
You have the $2.8 million was that a sort of -- that management incentive cash was that sort of onetime? And the other couple of [indiscernible] is that a seasonal and not a onetime? And you said the orders were up at rolls 10% in clothing 13%.
I would think that would suggest that your second half would be better year-to-year.
And how much business do you think you're going to do in maintenance this year? Okay.
One correction Howard.
Xerium overall second quarter to second quarter last year was up 10%.
That includes rolls and clothing.
Clothing in and of itself was up 13%.
Put that out because we get compared to Albany and people want clean numbers for comparison reasons so we report both.
So the difference therein is the rolls number.
Yes you're correct.
Our second half is going to be better than the second half of last year according to our current backlog and the fundamentals of our business.
So we do have a strengthened business in the second half with regards to comparison to last year.
And then the guidance that we gave out here to set expectations is -- depending on what currency does on a constant currency basis we see the second half of this year similar to our first half.
And maintenance how much are you doing in that business presently? The mechanical services business? Yes.
The whole rolls business is kind of a maintenance and aftermarket business.
We take rolls off of a machine.
Usually they're worn down.
The most common request we get is to regrind it rebalance it resurface it.
We take that roll into our shop.
We do our evaluations.
We turn it we regrind the surface.
Return it to its original condition send it back.
We can do that 2 or 3 times and at that point we have to completely take the cover off and reapply a complete cover to it.
To our customers that is an aftermarket -- that is maintenance.
To them if you look at the plant budget to them for maintenance CapEx that's in their maintenance budget.
So we're in their operating budgets to do that.
The mechanical services what I was referring to other is something that's been evolving over the last few years which is the apparatus that a lot of these rolls attach to and the working positions are called suction boxes.
And they're big mechanical contraptions that have a lot of parts to them and they themselves also have to be maintained.
In the past we haven't done a lot of that the machine builders have done it or specialized service houses and we've been stepping forward into it.
With regards to the size of the business we haven't really given out any global information.
But I can tell you that in North America those businesses are roughly the same size.
The service business and the roll covering business very similar size.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Craig Hoagland of Anderson Hoagland &amp; Co.
Yes.
Could you just speak a little bit about the balance sheet and if you have targets for debt reduction or leverage for this year going forward? We have not get given any guidance regarding debt pay down or leverage.
However we have a consistent goal to pay debt down.
We haven't bracketed a certain amount and the -- it's really a board kind of decision.
And the type of thinking we get into is do we -- what's the best use of our capital? Is it to accelerate our restructuring and to get after the next batch of EBITDA? Or is it to pay that debt down.
And we've been doing a little of each.
If you do the math here we are having a cash generative year.
So we'll be coming to that decision in the second half and not really the first half.
We're kind of on plan with what we wanted to do a little bit of timing delays with regards to payments to people.
But we've taken actions we want to take and now have the impact that we expected them to have.
But in the second half we're probably looking at do we want to pull forward the project from 2014 and start it now or do we want to pay debt down.
We're not -- we don't have guidance on that.
With regards to leverage yes we do want to be below 4x we intend to get there.
And if you kind of do the math that we've given out here you can see that we are going to be below 4x.
We're at 4x right now and things are improving.
So we're headed in the 3s.
We're comfortable with that.
That's very doable.
Our cash interest expense and the other ramifications of that level of debt work in terms of what we want to do with capital spending.
And our sales growth is in a band of possibilities because of the amount of capacity we have.
So we're happy with where we are.
We don't really want to give guidance out on debt reduction or target leverage rates at this point.
That's about the most I can tell you Craig.
Okay.
So it sounds like with the growth in the profitability the debt levels are seeming more sustainable and supportable and so the urgency there is moderating is that...
Yes.
With the refinancing that we've done really we've really -- we really put ourselves in a position to evaluate growth opportunities or suspend paying down the debt as opposed to other types of issues with covenants and things of that nature.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I would like to hand the call back over to Harold Bevis President and CEO.
Thank you everyone for calling in this morning and also for the questions that were asked we appreciate it.
Keeps us on our toes.
And the questions picked up the correct fact which is we did have a good quarter.
And the actions taken by the leadership team here at the company and by our plant teams to deliver quality products is working fine.
We're happy with our business right now.
We don't see any fundamental weaknesses.
And versus our second half of last year we do see a better second half this year versus last year if these fundamentals continue.
So thank you very much for being interested in our company.
And with that we'll conclude the call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.