Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on November 7 2013.
My name is Emily and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies' third quarter 2013 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Wednesday November 6 2013.
And we're also announcing a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Identification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Wednesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represents our review as of today November 7 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available at our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section on our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's third quarter performance.
I would like to start off with significant highlights from the quarter and year-to-date periods.
First our sales do continue to increase.
On a constant currency basis third quarter 2013 sales increased 22% from the third quarter of 2012.
Third quarter 2013 sales per employee were $172 000 per person remaining at a 4-year high.
Our backlog as of September 30 2013 was $156 million slightly down from backlog at the end of the prior quarter but consistent with seasonal expectations regarding orders.
September year-to-date 2013 sales were $413.2 million.
Excluding foreign currency effects year-to-date sales increased $9.1 million or 2.2% versus the comparable prior-year period.
This sales growth is in line with global paper market trade group estimates.
Excluding foreign currency effects sales increased across all regions $4.2 million or 5.5% increase in Asia $2.8 million or 2.0% increase in Europe and $2.1 million or 1.1% increase in the Americas.
Constant currency sales growth was higher in rolls and mechanical services at $5.7 million or 4.1% increase than it was in machine clothing which grew $3.4 million or 1.3% increase.
Sales growth continues to be hampered somewhat by lack of production capacity in multiple product areas.
And the company is progressively working to eliminate those bottlenecks.
For the last 12 months our sales and orders are almost exactly balanced on a constant currency basis at $542.2 million.
Second big point is that our adjusted EBITDA continues to increase.
Third quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA was $27.2 million or 20.2% of sales.
This is an increase of $2.8 million or 11.5% versus Q3 of 2012.
September 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was $83.3 million.
This is an increase of $14.6 million or 21% over the comparable prior-year period.
Sales growth accounts for approximately 27% and net cost reduction accounts for 73% of the September 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA.
Our SG&amp;A continues to trend lower in both dollars and percentage and that improvement is primarily driven by cost reduction programs.
Our gross profit and gross margins continue to trend higher.
That improvement is also primarily driven by cost reduction programs.
The third major point is that additional cost reduction programs continue to be implemented at Xerium.
Compared to last year cost reduction programs delivered an incremental $7 million in the third quarter of 2013 and an incremental $18 million through September year-to-date of 2013.
This compares to $5.4 million in Q1 of 2013 and $5.6 million in Q2 of 2013.
Plant efficiency programs which include waste reduction procurement productivity and logistics programs account for approximately 40% of the year-to-date cost reduction improvements while restructuring programs account for 60% of the year-to-date cost reduction improvements.
Also in the third quarter of 2013 Xerium announced plans to build a new high-end press felt plant near Shanghai China.
This is anticipated to deliver both cost reduction and sales growth results.
And also in the third quarter of 2013 the company identified its restructuring goals targeted for implementation beginning in Q1 of 2014.
The company continues to reinvest the majority of its free cash flow to improve future results and there are several categories: First is the ordering of long lead time of equipment; second making restructuring and severance payments with regards to our restructuring programs; third finishing the 4 plant closures which are underway while at the same time expanding 7 plants and those are also underway; initiating the next plant closure; building a new greenfield plant in China; expanding the company's aftermarket rolls and service footprint and capabilities; implementing 10 new product programs that open new market opportunities for Xerium to grow sales in the future; and lowering our net debt to $394.4 million.
Xerium's net debt leverage continues to improve in line with adjusted EBITDA improvements declining to approximately 3.8x adjusted EBITDA.
Our Q3 2013 fully diluted earnings per share improved from a net loss of $0.24 per share -- per diluted share to net income of $0.13 per diluted share primarily as a result of increased gross margins and decreased operating expenses as a result of our cost reduction initiatives.
The third quarter of 2013 performance was as expected internally.
The business continues to be commercially steady and predictable with established trends.
Our adjusted EBITDA rates continue to increase due to explicit cost reduction actions being taken which are progressively being implemented.
We have identified numerous new opportunities to advance the company's sales and adjusted EBITDA and we have prioritized them to achieve proper balance.
The areas that we are balancing amongst include short-term results versus long-term results high-risk projects versus low-risk projects cost reduction versus sales growth new product development versus next-generation advancement of existing products and maintenance of current business and capabilities versus implementation of new business capabilities.
We have a large backlog at this point going into the fourth quarter of 2013 and into 2014.
At this point in time we see no substantial commercial changes to the business including any end-of-year timing events in the industry.
The company is committed to the continuous pursuit and implementation of measurable and sustainable advancement.
We intend to keep increasing our adjusted EBITDA for multiple years including 2014.
And we are finalizing the next slate of major actions right now.
We are already committed to a significant portion of our discretionary 2014 CapEx spend as we have advance-ordered multiple long lead time machines.
We are reinvesting the majority of our free cash flow but not all of it back into the business.
And we will continue to do that in 2014.
We will not need to do this indefinitely but at the company we feel we are catching up a little bit right now on top of normal maintenance needs.
We need to have a few less plants and high cost areas; a few more machines in certain plants to de-bottleneck normal sales volatility and sales growth opportunities; get more production in low cost areas; more removal of SG&amp;A redundancy; and reorganization of our human resources into a leaner forward-looking profile.
The new China clothing plant is a big deal for us and it positively impacts 2016 and beyond.
It will be a game-changer cost structure for the company as well as increasing our customer service response times specifically to Chinese customers.
The China market is the largest in the world and we need to get set up properly for the long term.
The China investment decision demonstrates our top-down commitment to making material changes in Xerium's business model.
2014 and 2015 improvements are based upon a different set of decisions and actions.
These improvements involve risk-taking and benefit from thoughtful planning.
We like our improvement plays it pays at Xerium and we're designing plans for meaningful adjusted EBITDA improvements for both 2014 and 2015.
Our cumulative goal is to progressively lay the foundation for higher performance.
Our historical and legacy customers are doing well but some are undergoing change.
They need Xerium to be an even stronger value partner than before and we feel that we are doing that.
Our R&amp;D function is focused and we are pursuing a sleight above next-generation and new products.
The collective goal of our 3 200 employees is to deliver incrementally higher value and achieve incrementally better results.
You should expect steady and solid advancement from us built upon explicit and measurable actions.
Now I will turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Net sales in the third quarter were $135 million an increase of 0.6% compared to $134.2 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding favorable currency effects of $0.6 million the third quarter 2013 net sales increased 0.2% from the third quarter of 2012 with an increase of 2.2% in the roll cover segment partially offset by a decrease of 0.9% in the clothing segment.
Net sales for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 were $413.2 million an increase of 2% from $405 million in 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $0.9 million net sales for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 increased 2.2% from 2012 with an increase of 1.3% to clothing segment and an increase of 4.1% in the rolls cover segment.
Gross profit increased $4.2 million or 8.6% and gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 39.5% in the third quarter of 2013 from 36.6% in the third quarter of 2012.
These improved results were largely as a result of reduced operating cost due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by unfavorable regional and product sales mix.
For the 9 months ended September 30 2013 gross profit increased by 9.5% and gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 38.9% from 36.2% for the 9 months ended September 30 2012.
These increases were primarily driven by incremental savings from cost reduction programs and operational efficiency and favorable factory overhead absorption partially offset by unfavorable regional and product sales mix.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs decreased 5.4% to $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $36.9 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This favorable variance is primarily due to savings achieved from our restructuring and cost reduction activities and the absence of CEO transition costs in 2013.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase of management incentive expense in 2013 increased professional fees and startup costs incurred in 2013 related to the China project.
Restructuring costs decreased to $3 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $5.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The 2013 charge is related to previously announced headcount reductions and the closure of a clothing facility in Spain.
Net interest expense decreased to $9.4 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $9.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease was primarily related to lower average debt balances and lower amortization of deferred financing fees during the third quarter of 2013.
Interest expense less amortization of deferred financing costs was $8.7 million in the third quarter of '13 and $8.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Income tax expense increased to $3.1 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding the effects of restructuring our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2013 was 37%.
This overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we received no tax benefit.
Our effective tax rate for the entire year is expected to be 88% or 31% excluding the effects of restructuring and debt refinancing.
The volatility in our effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we received no tax benefit.
We expect cash taxes to be approximately $6 million for the full year.
Net income and diluted earnings per share increased to net income of $2.1 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013 from a net loss of $3.7 million or $0.24 per diluted share in third quarter of 2012.
Included in the per diluted share amounts was $0.19 and $0.38 of restructuring costs respectively in 2013 and 2012.
The increase was primarily a result of the impact of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies and the absence of CEO transition costs partially offset by increased management incentive cost in 2013.
Q3 2013 adjusted EBITDA was $27.2 million up 11.5% versus prior year; and 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was $83.3 million up 21.3% over prior year and ahead of internal plan.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was increased to $103.9 million over the same period last year.
Trade working capital increased to $145.8 million at September 30 2013 from $131.1 million at December 31 2012.
This increase was primarily the result of increased sales volume impact on accounts receivable a temporary lag in accounts receivable days outstanding and an increase in inventory levels due to an anticipated increase in production levels.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended September 30 totaled $15.6 million.
We are currently targeting capital expenditures for 2013 to exceed our earlier estimate of $33 million by $5 million to $10 million due to the acceleration of certain capital projects.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $30.4 million in the 9 months ended September 30 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $12.9 million.
At quarter end we had $48.8 million of cash on hand and $27.4 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Harold? Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Emily may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus for Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Now a question for you.
One of your large competitors was talking a little bit about volume potentially coming in here in the fourth quarter.
And I know you guys said that you don't see any significant change here in the commercial environment.
Can you give a little bit of color around that what your expectations are for inventories and what you kind of see from your customers as you look out over the course of the next 3 4 months? Sure.
I guess if you look back at the prior 8 years for us Richard and look at our sales per quarter we're kind of dead-flat.
We don't have any seasonality quarter-to-quarter so Q4 is going to kind of look like Q3.
We have steady-state positions on machines.
And we have solid orders.
And as I've mentioned our orders and sales were matched almost exactly over the prior 12-year period.
And our orders were as expected in the quarter Q3 with regards to shipments in Q4.
So we're pretty steady on that front.
We expect Q4 to be like Q3.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then with regards to the CapEx plans you had mentioned that you're going to accelerate and it sounds like another $5 million to $10 million into this year compared to next year.
Is this largely related to the expansion over in China or is this equipment that's going to go into some of these other facility expansions you have going on? And does this mean your CapEx in 2014 might see -- might be a little bit lower than otherwise thought? Okay.
On my first point on the driver of the increase right now yes it is due to the China project primarily.
And that is the vast majority of that.
We've advanced ordered now all the big-ticket items and they're underway.
So we anticipate those payments will be made this year.
They haven't been made yet but we anticipate making them between now and year end.
We're finalizing the terms and contracts and whatnot with the equipment suppliers.
With regard to next year no we don't see a decrease next year.
If you look at the multiyear plan we have an increased EBITDA and restructure the company.
We're really still at the beginning of that.
So we have several more years of this type of level of spending.
We'll have free cash flow next year though.
We do have a plan to pay down debt 8 figures kind of deal.
But we do see a real payback on investing into the company right now.
And we have a really good slate of items.
The restructuring process is not complete.
We just have kind of done the first phase of it.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
It's certainly a refreshing change from where we were maybe 12 months ago.
I'd say lastly can you give us an idea or provide us with a way to think about the contribution that the China greenfield could have on EBITDA? And maybe talk a little bit about the total expected cost of that facility? Yes the cost position of the plant will definitely be our lowest cost similar to some of our peers who have already done that or almost all of our peers.
And if you look at the market it's growing at about 7%.
And if you look at our sales it's a press felt plant is what we're building right now.
And if you look at our press felt capacity and our press felt sales and the trade sales in that region and the growth rates we're still going to be a net exporter into that region for quite a while first for 4 years.
So the long-term plan is outside of 3 years.
It's a 5- to 7-year plan before we can start exporting out of that location and back in other regions.
So our business model right now and our 5-year plan is to implement press felt capacity in China to serve China and the surrounding region.
And that is going to take a while to do.
The rates that we have and the assumptions we've made are very consistent on pricing and we've just done the basic adjustments for input costs.
It will be a profitable area for us as it is in other areas.
Cliff do you have any color on specific numbers? Yes gross margin is lower in China because we're importing our product internally so there are increased freight costs and other variable costs from our cost plan.
We do expect that we'll get about a 4-point improvement on gross margins going forward once the plant is in place.
And that will help us again add to EBITDA improvement in the future once the plant is up.
And with regards to the capital the total capital that we're going to put into there we haven't finalized our plans Richard but the current plans are $30 million to $40 million.
We're primarily buying new equipment and we don't have extra equipment of this type that's proper.
We have to get the proper width machines for the size of the paper machines that are in that region.
We export to that region right now.
These products the only products that we make in the country of China right now are our rolls.
Our rolls and servicer are made in-country.
We export all of our clothing products in there.
So we had to get wide equipment some of the newest machines in the world are in China and in Asia and we just didn't have extra equipment like that.
So kind of a -- it's kind of a swallow big gulp.
And it's $30 million to $40 million is what it's looking like Phase 1.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then actually one more if you don't mind.
You guys have done a great job with your cost reduction programs and you mentioned it sounds like at least in your prepared remarks about some additional actions that you may have.
Are these incremental to what you've talked about and have disclosed so far? And if so by high much? They are incremental.
So our -- the pace that we have right now we're kind of -- we're maintaining our quality levels.
We don't want to go too far too fast with how much restructuring we do.
But we do have several more plants that need to be consolidated.
We see a lot of opportunities to optimize our cost structure.
We also have next-generation equipment that we know we can invest in to be more efficient and have less waste.
We're pretty excited about that.
If -- our goals right now are really not exactly based on 2014 or 2015.
We can see that -- we have multiyear projects underway with but if you look at just 2014 we're for sure going to have around 5% to 10% improvement in EBITDA.
We haven't finalized our 2014 plans.
We're looking at that type of a range of increase.
Each year we can see it just based on cost reduction.
The market is pretty steady.
The commercial picture is pretty steady.
And if you look at us empirically looking backwards at our quarters over the prior 8 years we're a pretty steady quarter-on-quarter kind of a business as we should be.
And we are progressively implementing additional items to the baseline.
So the way we think about it is when we've completed a project we're taking on another one.
So we don't want to increase SG&amp;A or headcount to do more projects more quickly.
We're using the team we have and we're trying to be cash flow neutral.
But we're not trying to spend -- get way over our skis with spending.
We'll have some timing of big payments but over the periods we're trying to be cash flow neutral or slightly positive to pay down debt also.
So we see a 5% to 10% improvement next year and the year after.
We haven't finalized 2014 so I can't -- I'm not really comfortable giving anything more specific and I'm not withholding information it's just we're not done yet.
You should see -- you should expect to see increasing EBITDA from us a similar commercial picture and some debt paydown.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer for CRT.
I guess after that last call I don't have much else to ask.
But one thing I did want to get a comment on was your main competitor in the PMC business already actually had kind of a rough quarter over in China they mentioned.
And you guys did not.
You had a much better quarter.
Is there anything that you see that they're doing that you're not doing that might account for that? Well we saw the same -- we read their prepared comments.
We read their statements and their Q&amp;A and we're very consistent with them.
We see very similar activities in that region versus them.
They have a much larger exposure to that they have a big big business that was well-earned over a long period of time.
We're smaller in Asia Pacific than they are and we have a smaller product line.
Plus we are -- we have 2 big product lines we sell.
We sell rolls and PMC.
And our focus has been strongly on rolls and servicing.
And we are a market leader there.
And we compete against Boise and Metso in those arenas.
And we do suction box repairs and we got -- re-grind rolls and re-cover rolls and refurbish shafts and journals and bearings.
So our aftermarket service business has been growing faster than clothing.
And our clothing business also had a bump in the road there too.
We see the same things.
I think it's just based on our product mix and the size of our business on a relative basis.
I think they're consistent Adam.
Okay.
Okay.
What about Europe? Are you starting to see any pickup in Europe at all? Well as you can see in Europe we did fine in Europe also.
And again the biggest part of our Europe increase is rolls and service.
And the industry has continued to adjust to the decline in printing and writing grades.
And that trend downward is well established now.
It's going 15-years-plus now of a trend.
And as the paper and board makers in Europe have adjusted to that reality they've outsourced more and more and cut their payrolls for high-end services technicians and mill writes and they've progressively outsourced.
So our growth is partially a shift from doing things in-house to sourcing them.
And so the opportunity -- the number or rolls in Europe for instance is going down with the trend down in printing and writing.
But our business is increasing because they're outsourcing their services to third-parties like us like Boise like Metso.
And so we're benefiting from a secular shift in the provision of those services.
And that's going to continue for a while.
That's a trend that's not at the end.
That's kind of -- we made -- Dave Pretty is here with me the President of Europe.
We're kind of in the middle of that Dave in Europe? That's correct yes.
Any color Dave related to that comment? Well I -- definitely in support of what Harold said we are seeing a shift.
We are seeing a shift our client base outsourcing service work.
We're addressing that with our operations that are strategically located across the Europe -- European field of operation.
But our clothing business too we've been successful in terms of recent contract negotiations.
And our backlog is okay.
And if you just look at the number of datum year-to-date through September in Europe on a constant currency basis we're up 2%.
Got it.
And so I'm sorry the only other thing I wanted to ask about was you had spoken about new product initiatives in the past.
Is there anything that you're involved in there? Or maybe you could update us on the new product initiatives? Well we have 10 product -- we have 10 programs not 20 not 11 not 8.
We do have 10.
And they're very specific.
And there are areas where we have gaps in our product line.
There are trends that are underway in the market.
We've been maybe a little late to the party on these items and we're playing a little bit of catch-up just to fill in our product gap so that as the markets get tougher and tougher that we don't have any gaps at all in our product.
And we'd like to be able to look at a paper machine and have the full product line like our peers but we don't at this point.
So we're simply just filling in gaps.
Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber for Bennett.
I want to ask one follow-up question about the China spend.
I think you put a ballpark of $30 million to $40 million on it.
Is that through 2016; i.e.
an incremental $10 million a year will it lump in 2013 and 2014? John this is Cliff.
The spending on China will actually fall over 2013 '14 and '15.
So it'll be fairly well balanced.
Bulk -- the biggest part will come in '14.
But there's -- it's fairly well laid out to match our capital inflows of cash.
The timing of the building is to be built by the end of next year.
And we're going to be receiving the majority of the machines at the end of next year installing them at the beginning of 2015 and then going through an initial ramp-up to maintain our quality.
We're mimicking the quality of our Gloggnitz plant which is a world-class operation.
We have a very deliberate and specific training program on quality documented quality process that we're putting in.
We're not going to rush it.
But it'd be kind of starting in the beginning of 2015 is the way the equipment lead times and the building construction lead times kind of lay out.
Okay.
My second question is you mentioned bottlenecks in production and that has something to do with expanding in 7 plants and closing in 4.
Is that something that you feel will -- incrementally the progress you make in 2014 will that add $10 million of sales $15 million of sales? What do you feel you are losing that you can catch in 2014 all right? If that's possible to answer.
Yes the -- I can tell you the general area is rolls and service.
So one of the big things that we can't do is -- we have 17 plants focused on reservicing rolls and suction boxes.
And we need a big floor footprint to basically take a roll out of a suction box.
And we can't accommodate that either the weight of the item which can get up to 150 tons or the space needed to literally pull them apart.
And we are progressively receiving requests from our customers to do that.
The generic term as people say they want their suction boxes clean or refurbished.
And that entails a lot of mechanical work.
And it has to be done to precise specifications to avoid vibration problems or vacuum problems in the nip.
There's very specific parameters of this piece of equipment these work at and it needs to be matched to the roll and the fabric.
And all 3 of those items are what we do in our solution offering what we call the value results program where we engineer the nip and we recommend the settings for pressures temperatures vacuums vibrations.
And we can fine-tune a suction box the roll and the clothing.
And we're just not able to do that everywhere.
And so we have quite a few smallish expansions that we're underway with to accommodate that.
How much does it amount to? We haven't quantified that exactly.
We're going through our commitments now for 2014.
We know that we're capacity limited.
We're on 24/7 shifts in the plants that can do this and we're expanding.
So I'll ballpark it for you though.
It's probably -- Dave help me.
It's probably a $10 million item maybe $15 million? I would say somewhere between $15 million.
Yes okay.
Kind of a range.
That's very helpful.
I -- Adam previous questioner asked about product lines.
And I know you at one point spoke about really other markets.
What progress have you made in taking your product lines that exist to other industries that could probably use them? Yes we have -- we've done quite a bit.
First of all I hired a leader of that business Steven Johnson which was announced in the quarter.
He has started now.
He's the General Manager of what we're calling specialty products which are basically non-paper product sales.
We have been in these alternate markets for many decades.
They haven't been focal points and then they've been smaller and second priority somewhat at times when we've been sold out versus surges in the paper industry.
Our different mindset there and the new reality -- and that might have been proper then too but the new reality in the paper industry coupled with these areas growing on average around 5% versus the global paper market growing 2% make them more attractive now more than ever.
So we don't have a lot of dedicated capacity.
We've been accomplishing our production over time primarily with swinging looms and sharing finishing frames.
It's been a shared activity for us and now we're having a focused factory approach where we're dedicating equipment and tweaking it out to really be state-of-the-art with the quality of the products and to have a more full product line.
We'll probably -- we've already added this year some product specialists globally in Asia in Europe in the U.S.
so we need a few product specialists to help with applications.
The application of the product to the machine is extremely important always but especially in these areas.
And so we needed to beef up our ability to quote properly.
And we have hired the specialists.
We do have a leader.
Cliff and his team have created a P&amp;L.
We're managing a P&amp;L starting in 2014.
Versus it being a product line within the regions it's actually going to be a virtual P&amp;L across the regions where we're going to track it explicitly set goals.
So we're clarifying it.
We're focusing it.
We're adding some dedicated talent to it.
We're adding dedicated machinery to it.
And so that is part of the de-bottlenecking that we spoke about.
It's not a big investment though.
It's not like the China project which that one is a big deal.
It's really a loom here or there.
It's an attachment or an amendment here or there.
And so it's primarily using equipment that we have.
All right.
My final question if you can step back for a moment I believe you've probably been -- you were appointed to the job probably about 15 months ago.
In the course of that timeframe what's been your biggest surprise about the attributes of the company? And what do you feel your focus is now that is different from what you thought your focus would be? Or has there been really no change in focus? I'm just saying what have you learned in the last 12 months or so that you feel should have greater emphasis? Okay.
Three questions there.
The biggest surprise I didn't really have any big surprises per se.
I was in packaging for many years.
And paper and packaging were covered externally by third-party analysts and investors and I tracked this industry.
I knew of it.
I knew of Xerium.
I knew of Albany.
I was able to research this company very well before taking this job.
And I knew before I got here that we were -- had outstanding products 200 years of credibility and a leader in patents and technology.
So I knew that coming in and I have found that to be true.
So I have found the product strengths and quality and customer relationships to be unbeatable.
We're matchable we're comparable in certain areas but we're pretty -- we're a leader at what we do we're specialists at what we do.
I would say that the restructuring program that we've put in place to cut costs cut headcount cut down on flexibility in the plants cut down on the number of plants is something that I'm happy with how well the operations team has accommodated that.
And so I would say our operations team has overperformed for the reasons we're beating our numbers is because they are beating their numbers.
The market isn't growing faster than we thought.
We thought it would grow at 2% we're growing at 2%.
So no big surprises commercially.
We're holding our own.
We're doing what we need to do.
We're following momentum on the rolls side strongly and we're following momentum into Asia.
But I would say definitely our operations team is really strong.
And as far as focus now and then from what I've learned I'm basically going to ride them now.
I'm going to ride that horse.
So we're going to keep going with our restructuring and adding our Six Sigma programs our lean manufacturing programs our waste reduction programs our yarn substitution programs our plants making basis for each other helping each other more.
Our plants can handle more interconnectivity than they have in the past and we're doing that.
So right now we're going to ride those strengths going forward and then I've tried to articulate them numerically a little bit here.
So I would say that we're definitely a clear leader of what we're doing and we're trying to be very transparent with what we're doing in Asia and in these product categories.
So we're not withholding the information at all.
[Operator Instructions] Emily hearing no further questions.
I'd just like to summarize the call for today.
And I want to thank everyone for calling in and your interest in Xerium and we're trying very hard to be transparent and to set goals that we can meet or beat.
And we're going to continue with that mindset and have credibility in terms of saying what we're going to do and then do what we say at least.
So we're thankful for you calling in and look forward to talking with you on our next public all.
With that Emily we'd like to end the call please.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.