Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Xerium Technologies Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2014 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then Cliff will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter results.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday November 3 2014 and were also announced in the press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2014.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today November 4 2014 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in the additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review our third quarter results.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights.
Q3 2014 sales increased 3.4% over Q3 2013 and 0.6% over Q2 2014 on a constant currency basis.
North America sales improved by 8.7% over the prior year's third quarter.
Asia and South America sales both showed strong results as Asia grew 4.3% and South America grew 12.4% compared to Q3 2013.
European sales remained sluggish in the quarter and were off by 4.9% compared to Q3 2013.
Roll sales improved 12.6% over Q3 2013 and 5.2% over Q2 2014 while machine clothing sales were down 1.5% compared to the prior year's third quarter and down 1.2% compared to Q2 of 2014.
Q3 2014 adjusted EBITDA increased as a result of improved sales and strong cost reduction.
Q3 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $31.5 million.
This was an increase of $4.3 million or 15.8% versus Q3 2013 and is primarily driven by a steady sales market and strong cost reduction.
Cost reduction added $6.9 million in adjusted EBITDA in Q3 2014.
At this time I'd like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
On Page 3 of the slide deck we have summarized some key takeaways regarding the current state of our business.
Sales remained at healthy levels and have risen at a 3.3% constant -- cumulative average growth rate CAGR since the beginning of 2012 which is above overall market growth.
We continue to see expansion [Audio Gap] and lower our SG&amp;A spending as these measures have improved at 6.0% and 6.3% CAGR since the beginning of 2012.
You can clearly see the impact of our restructuring and cost containment initiatives are having on our business.
Looking forward Xerium has also been busy investing in the future.
While some of our investments have paid back fairly quickly we have also invested in some longer-payback projects.
In fact from 2013 through 2015 we expect to spend approximately $68 million on 10 separate long-lead time projects.
The first of these projects the installation of -- from a new DILO needling machine and the expansion of our mechanical services operation in Ruston Louisiana were recently completed and will begin to have payback beginning in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our longest lead time investment is the construction of a new press felt plant in Ba Cheng China and that will begin production in the second half of 2015.
At this time I'd like to provide an overview of the current status of our markets and our plans for the future.
Please turn to Page 4 on the slide deck and this presents paper production year-to-date through July compared to 2013.
It's important to note that while the overall market grew 0.3% there is real divergence in regional and grade-specific growth rates.
In addition quarter-to-quarter production volumes can vary which drives quarter-to-quarter volatility in the sales of paper machine clothing and roll cover producers like Xerium.
Page 5 of the slide deck includes year-to-date growth at July 2014 versus July '13 and it does vary by grade within each of our regions.
The North American region is having a tough year.
But having said that it's also evident that large segments of the global paper markets such as containerboard are healthy and continue to grow.
Xerium is well positioned to navigate changing market demand both regionally and by paper grade.
Asian market growth and Asian sales continue to be a bright spot for Xerium as well.
Q3 2014 Asia sales grew 4.3% on a constant currency basis compared to the same quarter in the prior year which we believe is in line with market growth in the region.
The company has stated it's building a new plant in Ba Cheng China to make high-end press felts to continue growing in this area.
Construction is underway and the plant is expected to hit run rate output in the second quarter of 2016.
In addition capacity in our China roll plants had been expanded during this quarter with the arrival and installation of equipment transferred from our previously closed rolls plants in Europe.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff Pietrafitta for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Our order pattern as presented on Slide 6 remains strong with orders down in Q3 compared to Q2 but in line with seasonal expectations.
The company has a healthy backlog going into Q4 2014.
Next I would like to direct you to Slide 7.
Constant currency net sales have grown approximately 3.3% over the last 2.5 years.
This growth rate is above market growth of 1% to 2% and we expect that trend to continue as our growth initiatives play out over time.
Constant currency roll net sales increased by 12.6% from Q3 2013 primarily driven by an increase in North America South America and Asia.
These increases were partially offset by decline in Europe.
Constant currency machine clothing sales decreased slightly by 1.5% from Q3 2013 primarily driven by a decrease in Europe and North America.
These decreases were partially offset by increases in South America and Asia.
Moving to Slide 8.
Gross margins improved to 40% in Q3 2014 from 39.5% in Q3 2013.
Largely as a result of our cost-out initiatives and operational excellence programs our gross margins have improved 540 basis points over the last 2.5 years.
In our clothing segment gross margins increased 0.3% to 40.9% in the current quarter compared to 40.6% in the third quarter of 2013 as a result of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by inflation.
In our roll covers segment gross margins increased by 1% to 38.5% for the 3 months ended September 30 2014 from 37.5% for the 3 months ended September 30 2013.
This increase is primarily due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by decreased gross margins as a result of higher sales of products and services with lower gross margins.
SG&amp;A expenses presented on Slide 9 have improved 6.3% over the last 2.5 years primarily as a result of actions taken to rightsize the company's cost structure.
For the 3 months ended September 30 2014 SG&amp;A expenses decreased $0.7 million or 2% to $34.2 million in the third quarter of 2014 from $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of headcount reduction restructuring savings and decreased management incentive compensation.
These decreases were partially offset by increased selling commissions on higher sales volume and inflationary increases primarily in salaries in Q3 2014 compared to the prior year.
Xerium's adjusted EBITDA trend as presented on Slides 10 and 11 evidences the impact of our restructuring efforts and operational cost reduction programs.
On a quarterly basis we have seen a 21.6% improvement over the last 2.5 years and on a trailing 12 month basis we have seen a 13.5% increase since the end of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA in Q3 2014 was $31.5 million or 22.7% of net sales and was 15.8% above Q3 2013 adjusted EBITDA of $27.2 million or 20.1% of net sales.
These improvements are primarily driven by increased net sales and gross margins and our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
Our adjusted earnings per share presented on Slide 12 which is defined as earnings per share adjusted for restructuring charges the Brazil tax amnesty charge losses on debt extinguishment inventory write-offs of closed plants currency losses and other nonrecurring items such as our former CEO retirement expenses was $0.43 per share in Q3 of 2014 up 19% from $0.36 per share in Q3 2013 which is driven by increased sales higher gross margins and cost-reduction initiatives.
On a trailing 12-month basis at September 30 2014 our adjusted earnings per share was $1.73 per share an increase of 40% over $1.24 per share at September 30 2013.
These improvements are primarily driven by increased net sales and gross margins and again our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
The company's leadership team has implemented strategic programs to realize both sales growth and cost reductions.
In fact we initiated 36 programs in 2014 with another set of programs ready to commence once the current programs are accomplished.
Specifically as presented on Slide 13 and Slide 14 these programs include: 17 primary new product programs including 11 machine clothing programs 4 rolls and service programs and 2 SMART machine automation programs; and 10 primary growth capacity programs including 2 new plants and 8 plant expansions; and 9 primary cost programs including but not limited to plant closures operational excellence programs and many machine upgrades across various plants.
In summary as presented on Slide 15 our markets are large.
Our sales have grown faster than the underlying market over the last 2.5 years and we have an attractive list of sales growth programs underway.
However our markets have shown volatility from quarter to quarter and will likely continue to do so.
Lastly Xerium's results are trending up in sales gross margins and earnings and we expect to achieve our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $116 million to $120 million in 2014 with the major risks being foreign currency and Q4 sales volatility including year-end actions taken by our customers.
We are also investing in the future growth of our business by introducing new products and investing in assets to increase capacity and fuel sales growth.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready for questions.
Katina may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic representing Sidoti &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Could you talk a little bit about the non-paper market how much of sales derived from those markets? And just going forward how do you see this? The non-paper markets that we primarily pursue are fiber cement industry which is building products; nonwoven production which covers a lot of the industries with nonwoven fabric production; and industrial rolls where we sell our rolls and service offerings in 2 markets other than pulp and paper.
They're doing fine.
The growth -- they're GDP more types of businesses so they're tied into local market stories.
Both the fiber cement and nonwoven industries are primarily not North American businesses.
They're bigger.
80% -- roughly 80% of those markets are outside of the U.S.
and they're doing great.
Our actions to pursue them have to do with product development.
We had to improve our products' performances as well as specific capacity that we put in to make those products.
Industrial rolls is a little closer to our current machinery profile.
We had to add a bit of capability there.
Overall the businesses have been -- and mechanical services is also one of the areas that we view as a non-paper diversification move for us in sales.
And overall that's about 10% of our sales.
And we have a multiyear plan.
We have a 6-year plan to grow that business as a percentage of our total.
And as I mentioned it had precursor needs to both improve product performance and to get capacity in the right places.
So primarily the benefits that we expect from non-paper are yet to happen and we're putting in place what we needed to to get trials in product performance this year.
So you should expect in the future that we would get bigger benefit.
Answering your question a little bit more specifically in closing [ph] nonwoven industry right now is weak in Europe due to the GDPs in those areas.
Fiber cement's heavily tied into global construction primarily outside of the U.S.
and again that's been impacted a little bit by the GDP pictures around.
But steady state these are -- these market's going to grow around 5% 6% 7%.
And all the third-party data suggest that and we're building our plans around that.
Inc.</strong> So I saw in the 10-Q that you expect the capital expenditure for this year to be around $53 million.
What about going into next year? I know you mentioned there are further projects you're looking at.
How could we look at that? Yes I'll let Cliff take that one.
Sure.
Katja we -- you're right.
We are expecting to spend $53 million in capital expenditures this year.
We expect over the next couple of years to spend about the same amount as we see some opportunities to really turn on the profitability of the business.
Over time we do expect that we'll gradually decrease the spend and we do think -- if you're getting to the cash flow question and how we expect to deal with debt over the course of time we expect that by the end of 2020 we'll cut the debt in half.
But we do expect that we have like I said great opportunities to improve our capital spending and to improve the efficiency on the balance sheet and in the earnings.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer representing Pressprich.
Just a couple of questions nothing -- just in any kind of order here.
But did you guys have a chance to listen to the Albany call? I know it was at 9.
Do you have any -- an opportunity to do that? We did.
Okay.
What I'm -- I mean it was glaringly to me that you guys said South America grew 12%.
Albany's South American business was down 10%.
They attributed that mainly to Brazil.
Why do you think you guys are outperforming them so much down in South America? Well we have different product mixes.
They have a very strong complete product portfolio.
Our product development plans are anchored around completing our product portfolio to be the same breadth but they're a clear leader in the South American and Brazilian pulp industry where that's not a big market for us.
So I would suspect it's temporary number one.
And number two it has to do with their strengths versus our strengths.
If you look at the summary comments that were made by Joe basically they alluded to the temporary nature of it also given that they've had good orders and are sticking to their guidance.
And each of us has different customers so there might be a little bit of customer quarter-to-quarter lumpiness there.
But overall I'm sure they see what we see which is a healthy market that's growing some pushes and pulls as the global pulp industry moves a little bit.
The pulp industry in South America and Brazil is huge compared to the global market so that market is skewed toward -- maybe 35% to 40% of the available business to us and Albany and others is tied into that type of production and that production is a global commodity and it's an export business for Brazil.
So I think Adam it's temporary.
It has to do with individual mixes but at the paper machine level I think we're probably very close to exactly the same.
Got it okay.
And they reiterated their outlook for Q4 strong orders starting to see strong shipments at the end of this quarter.
Are you guys seeing the same thing going into Q4? Yes we are.
Their remarks -- I guess the simple thing to say is we support everything they said.
We see almost the same things.
Their puts and takes are a little bit different but the -- year-to-date if you look at our performance in rolls and clothing of our regions the year kind looks like we thought it would but the orders are dissimilar to what we thought.
They're lumpy.
And we had strong orders also in this quarter going into the fourth quarter.
And like Cliff said we're reiterating our guidance as well for the full year because we have strong shipments out of the plants right now and strong incoming order rate to the business.
So it's going to be a little bit stronger end of the year than last year we think.
Okay.
Sounds good.
In terms of gross margins I mean you guys are still lagging them by a couple of hundred basis points.
Do you have any longer-term targets? Do you think you could pick up those -- that extra 2% or maybe even better over the next couple of years? Yes they -- we lag them by 1 point.
In machine clothing they're at 42% gross margin.
We're at 41%.
And they definitely have a larger percentage of their production in low-cost countries than we do.
They have 2 low-cost plants in China 1 in Korea 1 in Mexico.
We're building our first in China.
We have a multiyear plan of our own that fits us that mixes our production towards low cost and short lead times.
It's going to take us a few years to get there but we definitely have plans to close that gap and eliminate it.
Also for us we have a big rolls and service business and the forward look for that business is equally as exciting.
We're putting new dots on the map.
The service business in addition to being tied into production of pulp and paper is also tied into a secular trend to outsource those services to specialists like us.
And we've broadened our service portfolio and we're building a brand-new plant in Corlu Turkey and we have plans to put other service plants into new locations.
And we're expanding service locations that we have like the Ruston Virginia -- excuse me Ruston Louisiana expansion we just completed to do more suction box repair in mechanical services.
So on the mechanical services side and rolls side which is a part of our diversification strategy we're already seeing some uplift from that primarily due to a secular trend that relies upon others to do it.
It all boils down to machines that need to run and need repairing and so we see a lot of opportunities there.
And the market is solid in Q4.
We have plenty of orders on both sides of our business.
And as far as getting our costs aligned and closing the gap versus them that's a clothing-to-clothing comparison.
And rolls we really don't have a proper comparable but we have a plan also to improve the gross margin in that business as well.
Okay.
So just -- I know you started a little bit later than them so it's just going to take some time.
Have you ever discussed ultimately what your China plant can do in EBITDA when it's at a full run rate? We have a multiyear plan.
So we bought -- we have the rights to land.
It's triple the size of our current construction building.
So we're building on 1/3 of the parcel right now and that whole project is -- the spend over a 2-year period is going to be about $40 million.
And we have not set the EBITDA that we expect from it.
It's pretty close to double digits so I can tell you that and -- or 8 figures.
And so the benefit is both cost reduction of existing business we already have as well as participating in the growth in the market.
If you look at that market it's growing huge and it's a big number that's growing.
So we don't really need to gain -- take share from anybody.
We just need to participate in growth that's underway with customers we already have and that's our base plan.
But we have a multiyear plan there.
So we have plans to build out all 3 parcels of that property and spend similar amounts over time so that we have a low-cost production capability in each of our product lines.
So it's a multiyear project Adam.
We're doing Phase 1 and we're not going to launch Phase 2 until Phase 1's performing.
So it's going to be a performance-based timing on whether -- on when we do it.
But the cost of each piece is about the same.
Okay.
So basically what you're saying and correct me if I'm saying it wrong is you think it could do at least $10 million of EBITDA which is 8 figures by my math.
You're also saying you won't launch Phase 2 until this plant is at run rate which you said earlier would be Q2 of '16.
Is that correct? Well that was a production comment.
When I -- my comment was -- we have a target cost per kilogram in mind for the plant.
And so that's a maturity issue on the plant performance and so we need to see that the plant is trending toward its target cost per unit.
And it's possible that you could be at your target output but not at your target cost per unit.
So yes we have plans to for them to coincide but the real deal here is we need the plant to make it at its target cost and quality level and so we have a few operating metrics that we're going to be looking at that will guide us to when it's time to distract that team with another project.
Got it.
Okay I understand.
We want them focused on producing Phase 1.
Good.
What about Corlu Turkey? Is that a similar-type investment and returns? Maybe I missed that in the past.
Is that something you also see the opportunity there? It's huge for us.
The investment's quite a bit lower though because the plant that we closed in Heidenheim Germany we basically have all the machinery we need virtually all the machinery we need for that plant.
So the cost is really the building.
And the building we did a build pursuit there and we're going to rent -- we're going to go capital lease on the building and we're going to move equipment we already have into it.
So we're going to lease the building.
We're going to move equipment we already have into it and we're going to hit the ground running.
So that one will be much more capital-efficient.
And of course it's a rolls and service plant.
It's not a clothing plant.
So the capital intensity is much less in the rolls business but the return on capital employed in the rolls business is better.
And so that will give us a foot in the door to also get clothing sales in the region given that we'll be a local provider.
And it's going to be a lower a lot lower CapEx for us.
Okay.
When do you expect that to get ramped up? I have with me Dave Pretty who's in charge of that project.
Dave the timing for the Corlu Turkey plant? Yes Harold the timing is -- we're looking at the second quarter of '15 for a segment of the service and grinding.
And then the rubber and polyurethane will wrap in through the third and fourth quarter of next year.
Okay.
I mean is this another potential 8-figure type return like China? No that one's going to be less.
And I want to correct a mistake that I made Adam.
It's going to be an operating lease not a capital lease.
But if you look at the rolls business rolls and service business it's a local business.
The rolls themselves weigh up to 80 tons.
That will be an 80-ton plant.
And these products don't travel well.
They're very expensive.
And so that business is never going to be like our Ba Cheng plant where you can build the items and export them easily in a little box to destinations around Asia.
This is different.
Rolls is a local business and it's about being locally competitive.
And so the sales and EBITDA out of the rolls plant is going to be an order of magnitude less than clothing.
So the way to get $10 million in rolls is to have a few plants.
The way to get $10 million in clothing is to have a really good big plant.
Got it okay.
And last question and I'll stop annoying you guys.
In terms of valuation management execution it seems like you guys have done an excellent job.
Everything you've said you've come through.
It looks like the future appears pretty bright.
But the stock is still trading at lower prices and valuations than it was beginning of this year.
Is there anything you guys can do besides talking at conferences telling the story that could potentially narrow that and get the stock to where possibly is a better value? If you look -- we've looked at that in a lot of different ways on the average daily flows and average daily trading value.
And we have some good partners that are on the phone today and some are on the phone that have bought the stock to hold it and look for good capital appreciation.
And then we have not a lot of daily float.
So I think Adam at least the pressure we're trying to build is just by performing very well and saying what we're going to do and do what we say so that it looks like a good buying opportunity and we get new people that want to buy the stock because it looks cheap relative to other opportunities they have.
But that's -- we are going to keep going to conferences yes and we're going to the ones that we're invited to and saying our sales pitch.
And we've also done some roadshows where we go one-on-one but we're not doing a lot of it.
We don't intend to do more of it.
We're kind of busy running the company.
So we're doing as much as we think is appropriate and we're trying to let our numbers be strong and to create the urge to buy by people that are watching the figures and willing to pay it.
That's it.
I know that it sounded basic but that is what we're doing Adam.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber representing Xerium.
Well I don't know that I'm representing Xerium.
I think I'm representing Bennett Management.
A question I had is -- you made some allusion to your desire to pay down debt and that within a period -- by 2020 you'd have cut the debt in half.
Do you anticipate in 2015 that you will be paying down debt? And if so how much do you think that will be? And this question comes -- obviously you made a decision to settle Brazil this year and you borrowed on your facility in order to do that.
That's good decision.
But what do you think you will be doing in 2015 in terms of debt repayment? Well I'm going to answer half and I'm going to turn the half of it to Cliff our CFO.
We do want to pay our debt down.
We have a 6-year plan to do that by 2020 as Cliff mentioned to pay off about half of it.
If you look at the short-term midterm long-term kind of a look at this our near-term goal has been to be cash flow-neutral and to spend -- to reinvest our free cash flow back into the business either through restructuring our capital investment and that's what we've done.
That was our plan.
That's what we're doing.
We still see very high ROI projects in front of us and we still see a strong ability to increase our sales and EBITDA beyond where they are.
We're not guiding flat.
We're guiding up.
And we think that we can go up over the next several years in both sales and EBITDA and profit rate and gross margin rate primarily as internal matters.
There's a pent-up amount of good projects that we have available to us and we intend to pursue them.
It will trail off as Cliff mentioned.
So as we look forward this year restructuring and capital together add up to about $70 million if you do the math there on what we spend.
That will trail down beginning next year.
So we will spend less next year and we will make more next year.
So this starts next year.
We would -- but for the Brazilian tax payment of this year we had a plan this year as well.
So order of magnitude at our current profit rate it's around $10 million to $15 million a year.
But our EBITDA is going to be increasing and so that gap will be widening.
That's how you get to bigger numbers.
So debt pay-down is a -- it is a long-term priority.
It's a midterm priority.
It's not a short-term priority.
The short-term priority is to get the fundamentals right in the business and to have foundations set up in low-cost countries for the clothing side of it and to get our service model fixed where we need some service shops in spots where we don't have them like Turkey.
And we have several others that we're talking about.
So if you look at the go-forward set of opportunities for us and what parts of the market are growing we need to mirror that and we primarily mirror half a little bit.
And so if you take a fresh look at it and say where do your service plants need to be there's a couple of open spots on the map.
And if you look at the percentage of our machine clothing its high-cost versus low-cost country production it's skewed towards high-cost.
So we see an opportunity there that's growth-neutral to take it down.
So restructuring and CapEx together they're -- we manage them together.
It's a big number.
We know that and we're going to be driving that down.
And the fact that it will be coming down and our sales day to day will be going up will lead to debt reduction.
Our leverage will improve each year in this plant short medium long.
Absolute amount of debt though will begin to come down starting next year.
Cliff any answer? I'll just add one other point.
The pay-down that we're expecting for next year is likely -- it will be in the second half of the year.
We've got to complete the Ba Cheng capital expenditure program.
We've got few other large programs that will be completed between Q4 and Q1 of next year.
So the cash generated for debt pay-down will begin second half of 2015.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Harold Bevis for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I appreciate everyone calling in today.
We're proud of the quarter that we had here at Xerium and our year-to-date performance is as we expected.
We have good outlook going into Q4 and into next year and so we thank you for your support.
I look forward to talking to you on our next conference call.
And with that we'll end the conference call Katina.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.