Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2014 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call on March 4 2015.
This conference call is being recorded for transcription purposes.
And now I'd like to hand over the call to Kevin McDougall EVP and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2014 fourth quarter and full year financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning and Cliff will discuss our 2014 financial results then we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter and full year were made available with the announcement of our 2014 results and the press release and the filing of our 10-K after the market closed on Tuesday March 3 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today March 4 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers is available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's 2014 fourth quarter and full year results.
At this time I'd like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
On pages three and four of the slide deck we have summarized key highlights regarding Q4 2014 results.
And as expected our results continue to improve and strengthen.
Q4 2014 sales increased 2% over Q4 2013.
Asia sales improved by almost 6% over the prior year fourth quarter due to increased sales in China Indonesia and Korea and increased rubber cover and spreader rolls sales.
South America showed strong results as its sales grew an impressive 14% primarily as a result of increased roll covers sales and mechanical services.
In Europe sales grew 1% compared to fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to increased press belt (03:43) and forming fabric sales.
North America sales were down 1% from fourth quarter 2013 primarily as a result of the closure of the large machine clothing customer.
Roll sales improved almost 4% over the fourth quarter of 2013 and machine clothing sales improved a little over 1% compared to Q4 of 2013.
Q4 2014 gross margin was 40.3% that compared to 36.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013 which represented a 360-basis point improvement with broad based improvements across the business lines further demonstrating the benefits of our ongoing restructuring initiatives.
Machine clothing gross margin improved to 42.3% in the quarter from 38.5% in the prior fourth quarter and roll covers gross margins improved to 36.8% in the fourth quarter from a gross margin of 33.6% in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
These step change improvements were a direct result of continued cost reductions and included two plant closures in João Pessoa Brazil and Heidenheim Germany as well as incremental head count reductions and operational expense programs.
Orders remained steady and strong in the fourth quarter increasing by 1% over the fourth quarter of 2013 on a constant-currency basis and providing a solid backlog going into 2015.
Our new product and new market programs are definitely having a positive impact and we plan to continue to field more in products and increase our capacity in 2015 which we will discuss in further detail later.
We're still in the early stages of our business diversification efforts and expect this to accelerate over coming years.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $29.4 million.
This is an increase of $5.2 million or 21% versus the prior year's fourth quarter on a constant-currency basis.
This increase was a result of improved gross margins and strong cost reduction.
Cost reduction added $7.6 million in adjusted EBITDA and it was driven primarily by incremental head count reductions and operational excellence programs.
Lastly we began 12 new initiatives for sales growth in the quarter and cost out programs also in the quarter and we brought the total sales growth programs underway to 32 and total cost out programs to 16.
Next I'd like to turn to pages five and six.
We summarize the key highlights regarding the full year 2014 results on these two pages.
As expected we continue to see improvement.
2014 was a solid year for Xerium with sales gross margins SG&amp;A adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS all improving over the prior year driven by our 48 programs in sales growth and cost out.
In fact we had the highest adjusted EBITDA in 2014 that we have had in the last six years and we expect that to increase again in 2015.
Our sales were $543 million and that was a small increase over the prior year on a constant-currency basis with orders increasing over 2013 about 1% for the full year.
Our new product invention rates are running at all time highs and we're already seeing some new big winners.
In addition we've had several other new product programs just launching in the first quarter of 2015.
North America Asia and South America improved in the year 2014 by 1% 2% and 10% respectively primarily as a result of an increase in mechanical service and rubber sales in North America increased machine clothing sales in China Indonesia and Korea and increased machine clothing sales in South America.
Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in Europe sales of about 4% in 2014 versus 2013 which is primarily due to a sluggish economy.
Both Asia and South America had record sales years.
Adjusted EBITDA was $116 million as reported and $118.3 million on a constant-currency basis which is right in the middle of our guidance range for the year.
This was an increase of 6% over 2013 on a constant-currency basis and it was a direct result of our plant network reconfiguration and cost reduction programs which are both well underway and expected to further benefit our cost structure in 2015.
In 2014 we continued the construction of two new very important facilities for us in Ba Cheng China and in Corlu Turkey.
Both of these facilities are expected to begin production in 2015 and we expect both facilities to contribute to an increased adjusted EBITDA in 2015.
Together these two facilities will add $10 million of incremental EBITDA at run rate.
I would now like to turn the call over to Cliff to discuss our 2014 results in more detail.
Thank you Harold.
I'd like to start my comments on Slide 7.
As demonstrated by this four block slide our business is progressively moving to a higher level of performance.
Our sales growth programs are working and compare favorably to overall market trends as we have seen a 1.4% growth in sales over the last three years and we expect similar results again next year.
Our lean SG&amp;A program continues to reduce cost improving 4.7% over the last three years.
Our operational excellence programs and restructuring activities continue to improve margins with a 7.9% improvement over the last three years.
Finally adjusted EBITDA continues to benefit from higher sales and lower cost improving 14.2% over the last three years which should continue in the coming years.
Just a comment 2014 adjusted EBITDA ended at $116 million or $118.3 million on a constant-currency basis relative to our previous guidance range of $116 million to $120 million.
On Slide 8 you can see our sales grew in both segments in Q4 2014 and rolls and services outperformed machine clothing in both Q4 and for the full year of 2014.
Rolls sales results are above market and continue to be aided by our increasing efforts in mechanical services and successful new product introduction.
Moving to Slide 9 both of our operating segments are contributing in a significant way as machine clothing contributed $89.3 million to adjusted EBITDA while rolls and services contributed $41.2 million.
Slide 10 shows our Q4 and full year 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share results.
Q4 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share was $0.43 up 169% from $0.16 in Q4 of 2013.
Full year 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share was up 29% to $1.58 in 2014 from $1.23 in 2013.
Slide 11 shows 2014 adjusted EBITDA of $116 million or 21% of sales increased 6% over 2013 adjusted EBITDA on a constant-currency basis.
We have corrected the downturn trend of adjusted EBITDA which began in the latter part of 2010.
In addition adjusted EBITDA reached its highest level in six years driven exclusively by our new sales programs and cost-out programs and is expected to deliver additional growth in 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Harold to provide highlights of Xerium's 2015 business plan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Cliff.
As shown on Slide 12 we expect sales to grow modestly by 0% to 1% in 2015 which is in line with market growth as graphical grades of paper decline in North America and Europe while the rest of the world continues to grow.
Should the market respond more favorably we'll be in a position to take more advantage of the debottlenecking efforts that we've made are coming on line and to improve our sales forecast for 2015.
I'd like to elaborate a little bit on the markets regionally and our sales growth activities in each region and I am going to start with handing the phone over to Dave Freddy who is the President of North America and Europe for Xerium.
Dave? European &amp; North American Divisions Xerium Technologies Inc.</strong> Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
In the North America and European theaters of operation I can tell you that we remain motivated and excited about the opportunities in the industries we serve both in paper and non-paper.
Our fresh products portfolio and value creation platform continues to earn the trust of our customer base and it's helping to maintain our momentum and market share in the geographic regions.
While 0% to 1% sales growth may seem tepid our North American and European plans actually call for sales growth of 2.5% to 3% of sales growth with an emphasis on paper packaging tissue pulp and other non-paper markets.
Unfortunately at this time offsetting our momentum is the continued decline of both newsprint and the printing and writing grades.
We expect this to continue in the short window but let's be clear this only represents about 20% of the markets we serve – or 20% of the paper market.
Having said that we remain focused on the 80% of the market where we are currently enjoying success.
And these markets that continue to reflect future growth include paper paper packaging tissue personal hygiene pulp and other non-paper segments that include non-woven fiber cement and industrial rolls.
These segments represent real growth opportunities and are the engines of our 2.5% to 3% sales growth going forward.
Again let me underline that the 80% of the markets that we are currently chasing or serving represent real solid growth opportunities.
At this point I would like to hand the mic or the telephone over to Paul Wang President of Xerium Asia to discuss our record-setting performance in the Asian theater of operations.
Paul? Thank you Dave.
Good morning everybody.
I'm glad to be here.
I'm joining you from Ba Cheng China where the new coming facility in China and I'm 13-hour ahead of here.
For those of you that have been following the industry Asia is the highest growth and the largest market for Xerium in the world.
And currently we have multiple years investment and sales effort underway.
The key and the center point of this effort Ba Cheng our coming press belt (15:48) plant later on this year.
With the start-up of this plant we will increase our profits but probably more important is provide the products that have been much sought after by our customer in Asia.
With the leverage of Ba Cheng we believe that we will be able to continue our growth momentum in our business and increase of our EBITDA for 2015 and beyond.
On the rolls side we have finished up the upgrade of our roll facility in Asia.
Now we can be able to provide the most sophisticated roll product for our customer in Asia as well as our innovative SMART roll to our customer.
Now with both the machine closing and roll effort we have deepened and broadened our capability to create value for our customers.
Let me put all of this into perspective Xerium Asia account currently 19% of all the sale for the company which is 1% higher than a quarter earlier.
But we are situated in a market that accounts for 47% in the world and as such it's not surprise that growth of Asia – of Xerium Asia is the key and center of our transformation objective for Xerium.
With that let me hand over the phone to our President of South America Eduardo Fracasso for the record-setting year in 2014 for South America.
Eduardo? Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
I'm Eduardo Fracasso Head of South America.
And I'm speaking from my working location in Piracicaba São Paulo Brazil.
Pulp and paper is a growing industry in the region and so is Xerium.
As a market leader in South America we are taking advantage of this healthy segment.
Xerium has a solid and healthy business in the region serving customer for our plants in Brazil and Argentina.
For 2014 we foresee a growing pair (18:15) for the pulp and paper industry.
More conservative on pulp and paper but growing mainly on tissue and packaging grades.
Xerium as a machine clothing and roll service provider with the vendor results program SMART roll technology and around 60% of new products in our portfolio we continue to benefit from this growing momentum of the industry.
In 2014 we had a record year on sales in South America.
And with the expansion of our plants and the modernization of Piracicaba reaches our 4 million dryers and the press belt (19:00) reaches (19:02) we are confident on setting the stage for a strong and solid 2015.
Thank you.
Now I would like to turn over to Harold.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
So I hope you got a flavor there for some of our growth activities by region for being conservative with our guidance here on sales it's possible that we have some upside performance but we're being conservative primarily in Dave's region of North America and Europe with regards to the pace and magnitude of the graphical grade market decline.
Our internal efforts are much stronger but we do expect that dynamic to continue in 2015.
On EBITDA our adjusted EBITDA is expected to reach $120 million this year at constant currency rates as our new sales programs and cost out programs continue to improve our results.
Our net debt leverage is expected to decrease in 2015 as a result of both increased adjusted EBITDA and debt pay down which Cliff will describe later.
Our plant network will go through a step-change transformation this year.
And it will involve 10 plants in eight countries.
We have several multi-year programs that are going to consummate this year including our brand new two new plants two new low-cost plants in Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey which will start production and we will continue our asset rationalization efforts this year and next year.
And in addition we have two mechanical service plant expansions which will be completed this year one in Neenah Wisconsin and one in Griffin Georgia.
And we have four machine clothing plant expansions which will be completed this year as well one in Asahi Japan one in Kentville Nova Scotia our big program in Piracicaba Brazil and a big program in Reutlingen Germany.
Lastly our spending will begin to decrease this year and our free cash flow will begin to increase.
We're giving guidance on free cash flow of $5 million to $10 million which is a conservative range for us.
We actually have an internal plan to pay down our debt $1 a share and it will be somewhat offset by some capital leases which will all come online primarily in China which Cliff will give you the details on.
But this year will be a year where we spend about 10% less money year-over-year and begin to use that free cash flow to pay down our debt and that trend will continue and accelerate as we move forward.
Moving to Slide 13 I would like to show you a couple of the main projects and our sale – our 2015 sale growth efforts will begin to benefit from some projects that are coming on line that we've been working on spending money on and spending time ib.
These projects will support growth in paper board fiber cement non-woven and mechanical services which are the growth areas of the market which Dave Pretty alluded to.
Specifically we expect Gloggnitz Austria the Ruston Louisiana and Changzhou China expansions start-ups that came on line at the very end of the year to deliver benefit beginning in this quarter.
We are already seeing the benefit of that.
And the Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey plants will begin production in Q3 of 2015 as you can see here with trial efforts preceding these start-ups.
Lastly in Q4 of this year we have three more expansions coming online which will enable us to participate more fully in the regional sales opportunities that we have before us.
So we have many multi-year initiatives that will begin in 2015 and then see us an even stronger 2016.
On Slide 14 we have highlighted our foreign currency outlook for the year.
Foreign currency did have an impact on us at the end of 2014 and Cliff will give some highlights on that.
And the U.S.
dollar is estimated to reach 11-year high this year.
This will impact our P&amp;L and our balance sheet and the entire global market dynamics in our industry as our customers do have export businesses that are somewhat dependent on foreign currency exchange rates.
Key takeaways in this short overview are our sales volumes are expected to improve about 1% on a constant-currency basis and EBITDA is expected to improve about $4 million.
At today's rate however reported sales will be negative impacted by about $37 million and adjusted EBITDA would be benefited by $1 million.
Therefore our EBITDA as a percentage of sales is going to go up quite significantly with that outlook.
Current forecast for the full year indicate additional currency movements and that would cause sales and EBITDA to be impacted by about $2 million and $1 million respectively.
Of course there is a no real ability to impact these things precisely.
But currency is important to our company as the majority of our sales and EBITDA is outside of the United States but we report all of our results in United States dollars.
So we are going to be more transparent with what's happening in currency in our business with you so that we can understand it between us.
The foreign currency environment will impact our customers as well perhaps not rapidly but it will be a marginal impact on some of the export business of our customer base.
Be a little bit harder in North America to get business a little bit easier in Europe but we have similar market shares in these geographies.
So I'm getting the order if you will – we're a little bit neutral to that but it does have some reported differences given where U.S.
dollar reported.
Moving on to global market conditions as shown on Slide 15 and Slide 16 the 2015 global market environment is expected to be very similar to 2014 conditions of slow growth and transformation.
So you have this dynamic which Dave pointed out of pretty decent growth in some of the grades and then 20% declining quite a bit and that's been a multi-decade trend.
We do expect to see continued growth in consumption and production and tissue containerboard market pulp board all increasing while graphical grades are decreasing.
On Page 15 we've stated before the data in this industry does lag a little bit but we're showing the most recent data and you can see in the bottom of this chart where the puts and takes are by region and these are trends that's been underway for some time.
Both the nonwoven fabrics and fiber cement markets are growing nicely and those two markets are primarily outside of the United States.
Key highlights of 2015 include a global GDP of about 4% China economy growing approximately 6% North America economy growing about 3% European economy expected to decline.
As shown on Page 17 our spending peaked in 2014 and will come down in 2015.
This spending is enabling Xerium to put capacity in place to support multiple years of growth as well as eliminating cost redundancies and inefficiencies that we've had for quite some time.
Specifically our 2015 spending plan is $59 million and you can see it categorized here on Page 17.
This represents a 10% decline year-over-year and it will be spread across several areas.
If you look at the spend categories maintenance of business which includes repair activity safety spending quality spending IT spending and R&amp;D is about $15 million of our annual spend.
We have $7 million related to cost productivity $10 million in expansion of the rolls and service businesses $10 million to complete the Ba Cheng start-up and $17 million on others – several other large restructuring and cost reduction projects.
On Slide 18 you'll see that Xerium has a uniquely integrated portfolio of products and services.
We have four main products and service categories and that are spread across rolls machine clothing and analytics and automation.
Unlike single product suppliers we have a uniquely integrated portfolio of products and services to optimize machine performance the speed at which our customers can make their product the cost of which they can make their products and we integrate automate and are able to simulate the operation of the machine so that they can precisely pick the correct apparatus for their machine to see productivity and then we offer those (28:08) services to them.
Lastly on Page 19.
2015 will be another increasing and improving year for the company.
We are guiding to increase both sales and adjusted EBITDA for the year and while the sales growth is projected to be moderate due to the offset that we see our chances of upside performance will continue to improve as we have additional sales capacity coming on line for our profitable products and regional opportunity that are doing quite nicely.
We will continue to use this pause in the global market in aggregate to restructure our own facilities and our cost structure and our global footprint so that we're better aligned to capitalize on faster regional growth opportunities that we see.
Our spending will begin to come down this year.
But it is that – it will stay this year at a historically elevated level as we finish the process that we are underway with.
Our inventions and patents are at very high levels we now have over 400 patents granted to us and we have almost 100 more in application and additionally we have several new – quite a few new products underway for this year and we tend to add that portfolio as well.
Finally we have several important cost reduction programs capacity expansions new products which will come on line late in the year which will set up strengthening year into 2016.
We finished 2014 stronger fundamentally and we're well-positioned to build momentum in 2015.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for questions.
Karen may we have the first question please? Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic of Sidoti &amp; Co.
Go ahead please.
Hi thank you for taking my call.
First question Harold you mentioned that your forecast or your guidance is conservative.
Can you talk a little bit about upside what will be the best case scenario right now that you would see? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Best case scenario good question.
I'll answer it honestly.
I would say there would be maybe another percent of growth.
And the real thing that we're trying – we're being transparent here by having Dave and Eduardo and Paul talk we certainly are bringing on online capacity which exceeds our guidance the capacity the expansion projects we're doing have been gauged to enable us to have the capacity we needed to grow for multiple years and we're being very conservative and consistent about adding that capacity with our value-added products and our best products and the big offset we have as a company is Dave regions on the graphical – the rate pace magnitude of the graphical grades decline.
Consumption consumption is gradual but the decline in consumption of graphical grade products is gradual.
However the supply the production side our customer side is they make decisions in their own best interest and we can have abrupt down shifts and when big mills are closed the biggest one in the last year was with IP Courtland facility in the southeast United States which no one saw coming and was a big major loss to the industry have concluded.
We're predicting some of that to happen and I think that our guidance is appropriate.
I think it's what's going to happen.
If there is a little bit of pause in the market you heard Dave say he is actually trying to grow 2.5% to 3% and in his regions he's guiding for de minimis growth.
So these two regions make up a little over half of the company.
So it could be about a point max but really I'm comfortable with our guidance really is what I think is going happen and you should expect that.
One more question.
I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that you expect your cost to decline by $20 million is this just the restructuring cost or will we see any operational improvements? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes the biggest category of cost improvement is operational improvement operational excellence efficiency improvements if you will.
So we took out $23 million in 2013 we took out $25 million in 2014 internally we have a similar plan this year.
In our guidance we have baked in about $20 million.
So for us internally we're actually trying to do better than our guidance.
Last year we gave a range which included our internal plan if you will and we just kind of guided to the mid-point.
This year we're just going to give a number to make the modeling easier.
We have stretch goals amongst ourselves.
We're actually trying to do it pretty close this year to last year on cost out.
With the upside being efficiency at the plant level so the plants have cost per unit targets that they're all marching towards to they all have stretch targets on top of it.
These involve waste labor productivity energy usage material cost and there is the typical array of cost activities at plant level.
And of course the capital spending we're doing and the machinery and advances we're doing all enhance our capabilities to make product faster and better and less – more right the first time if you will.
So if we beat the curve on that a little bit that's how we'll come in close to last year.
We're being conservative with the outlook.
But we still see strong cost out activities going into 2016 too we're trying to be mindful of our budget.
We were listening to investors who like to see the deck come down a little bit so we're starting that program this year but we still have a strong target-rich environment for cost reductions going forward.
We've been gradually taking our SG&amp;A down as we improved our information technology systems.
Cliff's in-charge of information technology.
As we enhance our IT and we're able to have consolidation of account receivable accounts payable ordering we collapse those activities we're technically ready to do it more error-free and auditable.
So we do have a multiyear plan for SG&amp;A reduction as well.
So we've been carefully not appropriately take it down.
Our SG&amp;A did come down in 2014 versus 2013.
If you look at our report it shows that was up $600 000 it's really a reclass.
Cliff? The corporate overhead it shows up in the segment footnote as being up $600 000 that was due to a reclass between the segments we brought some more functional leadership under the corporate umbrella.
Overall SG&amp;A is actually down year-over-year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So we are getting after SG&amp;A we are getting after the plants we have a multiyear plan we actually have a six-year plan that we're marching towards that has us paying off majority of our debt during that time period continuing this transformation that we have trying to be careful not over commit so that we maintain the credibility we've had of staying in our guidance.
So I feel comfortable with the sales outlook that we've given and I feel comfortable with the cost guidance that we're giving.
We have internal plans to beat both.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Melissa Tan of R.W.
Pressprich.
Go ahead please.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First question is really to understanding your currency exposure a little bit better.
I understand that about 60% of your sales are overseas what about your costs I mean what percentage of your costs are outside of U.S.? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we have a natural hedge.
We really have a translation issue because we primarily serve the local markets from within the region.
So in Europe we primarily are serving the market with European products if not exclusively 95% of our sales in Europe are made in Europe and so our costs are in euros and so the exposure we have to a U.S.
reported filing is that our sales will be impacted and our EBITDA.
It also brings down our working capital balances as reported in U.S.
dollars it's cash flow neutral if you will but the asset balances decrease when reported in dollars.
So we track efficiency DPO inventory and DSO and then we track it as a percentage of sales but the real exposure we have we just a couple where we have a situation where the production cost is different than what we sell in.
So we have a couple of instances where we sell in dollars but we produce in local currency.
We have a business like that a little bit of business like that in South America and we have some business like that in Southeast Asia.
So that's where we have our biggest exposure.
Cliff do you want to say any additional comments? Yes just summarizing what Harold is saying basically in our largest – our largest currency is in euro we are operationally hedged there.
Our sales are in euros our costs are in euros so the flow through effect of the FX exchange rate difference flows down right through our EBIDTA.
Same situation in Japan although it's a much smaller market.
Where we had a little divergence to that is in South America and Brazil predominantly and also Australia where we sell predominantly in U.S.
dollars however our costs into those markets are in the local currency and given the strength of the dollar we are getting benefits there.
So what you're seeing when you roll it altogether and I think we've got six to seven major currencies that we track in our business.
When you roll it all together what you see is that the euro drives the sales line for us.
So that's where we're saying at today's rates we expect sales to be down $37 million a lot of that is the euro impact.
However on the adjusted EBITDA line what we find when we roll through transaction and translation impacts is that our EBITDA will actually improve a little bit.
So it's kind of a different answer that you get then on the sales line because of the mix of the currency that how those currencies are behaving in those different regions and how that U.S.
dollar sales affects the local currency expenses in certain region.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So maybe 20 summary of that is that at the sales level our real exposure is in the euro and at the EBITDA – and it's negative – and at the EBITDA line it's primarily positive but in South America the business is transacted in dollars and our costs are in reals.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for the explanation.
And secondly I just want to dig in a little bit more on your guidance.
I understand that you have a very conservative just 1% growth and that's on a constant basis and $4 million higher EBITDA.
But you have talked a lot about the growth potentials in 2015 along with some benefit from the China plant and some from Turkey.
I mean it's just to me the numbers don't really seem to add up because you are trying to get into new markets that's outside the declining paper market and with every things sounding additive accretive to your 2014 numbers.
I mean the $4 million EBITDA it just seems very very low in my opinion.
I mean the type of growth that you expect to see in 2015 especially you are using these on the constant currency.
I will understand if it's on the – based on the current rate but if you are using constant currency to me just the guidance seems too low especially comparing to what you spoke about few months ago.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you're tying together two points which are true Melissa.
And if you just look at the actual numbers over the last few months in North America alone we've had $9.9 million of sales losses due to closures and in Europe $1.8 million.
So there is a current event here the closure rate the graphical grades it's only in those two markets there is no closures in South America and Asia.
This is really North America Europe story.
So there was truly an almost $12 million hit that we took as those closures happened.
So Dave tried to kind of paint that black and white on we're growing in these areas but we're getting hit in these other areas and that's where it is.
That's the order of magnitude.
And so we're talking 1% and 2%.
We're a 500-and-something-million-dollar company 1% is $5million and we've just lost $12 million.
So in offsetting that plus a little and also in Asia and in Europe it's offsetting it – excuse me Asia and South America.
But you're right.
The upside for us on the EBITDA line is the sales line.
And so we are – we do have activities underway to beat our guidance.
But we're hesitant to commit to that because of current hit – that the closure rates graphical grades over the last four months which tend to happen at the end of year as our customers do their next year business planning.
The closures this year were much higher than the prior year.
And so we're just hesitant.
We don't want to be misleading.
So it's a rough go.
But we still believe that this is going to go wash out.
And so we're just being conservative with that guidance.
You're right.
That's why we took conservatism that is where we hit it.
And that caused and that is what drove the EBITDA conservatism.
Okay.
And going into 2016 I mean you talked about in the past you see an additional $10 million coming from China and is that still intact and also what about your expectation for the big Turkey plant I mean that's after 2015 when everything is running at full speed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
The comment I made was the two plants Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey will deliver $10 million plus of EBITDA at full run rate which will not be 2015.
In both cases we have three-year plans to fill that capacity.
They both start up this year.
You would ask me I think – one of the comments one of the facts is how much you get out of China this year and it's truly just a start-up it's truly just a start-up here.
And so we're going to get less than 20% of the output of those two plants this year versus their full run rate.
So it's a ramp deal just speaking operationally versus financially.
The key -- the victory for new plants is to get off with good quality so that you have solid customer perceptions and as people want to order from those plants and they're not nervous about it.
There's been bad experience in Asia new plants starting up and having quality problems.
We don't want to do that.
So we have a conservative start-up profile with extra inspection and in Turkey the plant is a little more straight forward because of the way we're starting up in a limited product category.
All employees are trained now we're going to start off with rubber grinding rubber recovering and get into polyurethane and mechanical services.
So that was a little bit easier but when you're making press belt you can have to start up everything at once to make a good press belt.
There is no way getting around it and then Griffin and Neenah and Asahi the other plants at the end of the year come on and they're a bit more straight forward because they're expansions so they don't have the beta risk of a start-up they're just expansions of facilities we already have.
Thank you.
Just a last quick question before I hand it off to someone else.
You gave the – your expected growth for North American and Europe but you didn't give the growth number for Asia and South America.
I mean what type of numbers should we be expecting? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well actually I didn't – Dave didn't give his either.
He just said he's going to have offsets to 2.5% or 3% and our growth rates in the regions are going to be along the lines that they were in 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just had a couple of questions and just one small complaint.
My complaint is can you guys possibly release your results a little bit sooner after the market closes instead of at 7 o'clock at night or something? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
That – Adam that was – we had an internal glitch on that one we had intended to do it right away as we have in the prior eight quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Just..
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we had an internal glitch that won't happen again.
Inc.</span></strong> No worries just thought I mention that.
Specific – how much cash taxes did you pay in 2014? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> What? We actually have our executive in charge of taxes here Shannon (46:34) what was that number? Cash taxes for 2014 was about $14 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And in terms of CapEx I know you have a little slide there that shows your CapEx for 2015.
Can you give us a little forward-looking guidance on CapEx for 2016? Would it – I mean is it going to drop by $20 million once the spending in China and Turkey are done? Or maybe you could talk a little bit more about that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Adam it's more gradual than that.
We have – it's going to come down around 10% a year is what that's going to be like and then there will be a step change down.
If you look at our spending we bought out our spending to restructure these operations and move machines.
So it's heavy it's going to stay elevated by historical levels it will continue to come down.
I don't want to step beyond the Board of Directors.
So each of these is a Board of Director decision that's case-by-case but we do have a baseline of value creation baseline agreed at the board level and it will be gradual not abrupt.
So it's not going to be a deal where hey next year it's $15 million (47:52).
It's going to be gradual a gradual program of around 10% but then in three years from now – two more years of heavy spending two more years of heavy spending clip and then in the third year we're kind of through it.
And it comes down quite significantly and we become quite cash generative.
But we will continue to generate cash incrementally because our EBITDA is growing our CapEx is coming down our restructuring is coming down a little bit more than that.
So if you look at the total spend which we tend to combine restructuring and CapEx is a combined number because it's tied to a transformation activity and it's discretionary.
That number will continue to come down as our EBITDA comes up.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the bottom line is that step down function in 2017 or 2018? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Our baseline is 2018.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So 2018 then we get down to that I don't know $35 million $40 million whatever it is? Adam and I would say it a little differently – I would say that we've given guidance on 2015 right now it's $59 million.
As Harold said that's expected to come down another 10% or so in 2016 then we should see beginning in 2017 we're going to see a fairly meaningful reduction as we get through the programs that we've initiated.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
...and be back more towards the numbers you're talking about in beginning of 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then another – just on the currency issue I think on Slide 14 you guys have mentioned that you have a $4 million higher EBITDA number because of currency.
So here is what I'm confused about if you're saying $4 million higher EBITDA in 2015 that's your whole incremental guidance above 2014.
So what am I missing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're saying on an operating basis we intend to increase by $3 million.
All the sales declines which Dave is having in his regions for people not reading newspapers nor doing telephone books anymore those losses the gains in regions at the sales line our cost out no matter what currency does or doesn't do that nets out to another $3 million.
On top of that currency is going to have an impact.
So we're trying to say operationally what we're doing and then we're trying to say however currency is happening to us and it has an impact.
So...
Inc.</span></strong> Well it has a positive impact though right? Yes yes.
So $1 million...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you have a positive impact from currency.
You have a negative impact because of what you mention the graphical grade closures that whole side but you guys also the last couple of years have spoken about $25 million of cost saves in 2014 another $20 million in 2015.
How come we're not seeing a much bigger impact from those cost saves that should go right to the bottom line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So inflation is the biggest one and so our inflation is more than $8 million.
Inflation is about $9 million to $10 million.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> $9 million to $10 million so that we have labor inflation we have medical benefits inflation we have rent inflation.
So like any company we have inflation.
So there is an annual not to start-off after just to be neutral.
So for us that's $9 million to $10 million.
So we have to offset that plus add some extra for the good guys and offset any negative price mix.
The highest prices we have happen to be in newsprint and graphical grades because those products have very smooth surfaces no imperfections very bright and they have rugged conversion processes as they go through.
So they actually have our highest price products on them.
So as that goes away and then in effect substituted for cardboard containerboard tissue nonwoven fiber cement it's actually negative price mix.
So we have negative price mix we have inflation to offset and still arrive at a positive number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So it's the inflation and the higher margin graphical newsprint closures that are offsetting the cost savings is that the best way to explain it? Let me maybe walk you through that a little more specifically.
Negative price mix is about a negative $6 million impact.
And we have inflation of $9 million to $10 million.
Okay.
So there is $16 million that we need offset so if you got $20 million of cost saves all right and that's the primary pieces of the reconciliation.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
Yes.
I'm not looking for exact numbers.
I'm just trying to get a general trend there.
So that's kind of the overall issue right? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then my last question has to do with the spending on the new plants.
You mentioned China and Turkey.
You said 2016 should contribute $10 million of EBITDA.
But you also said that you won't get to a full run-rate EBITDA for three years right so it's a three-year plan.
What do you expect full run-rate EBITDA to be for those two plants? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> $10 million plus.
Inc.</span></strong> But you said $10 million plus for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I didn't.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Maybe I misunderstood.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I tried to say that twice but those two plants at full run-rate will deliver $10 million plus incrementally.
Both operations take 36 months to hit full run-rate from when they begin.
So if you look at the quarter at which they hit full run-rate or if you look at the year which they hit full run-rate or years from beginning you get into different scenarios.
But the paybacks for us are to get about 20% of this year the majority of it in 2016 full run-rate in 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the $10 million plus is not till 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's it.
Full run-rate for 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Adam.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of James Gentile from Greenhouse.
Go ahead please.
Hey guys just had a couple of comments.
Your transparency is super for a $240-million-market-cap company.
So maybe I'm going to be a little bit more complementary as we observe 2.5 years into a strategic plan that seems to be hitting on very nice cylinders.
So congratulations Harold to you and the team.
First as a capital goods small cap investor it's tough to find a company generating – congratulations again – 40% gross margins here in the quarter four and 20% plus EBITDA margins and having EBITDA multiples of six.
Private market values of cash flowing assets such as these regardless of your past debt issues garner anywhere from eight times to 10 times EBITDA.
So that's probably where the valuation will shake out here in our opinion.
But I just wanted to kind of throw that out there and congratulate you guys on a successful two and a half years of executing on a very challenging global strategic plan.
And also I thought it was really cool that you gave us a little walk around the world and all the goings-on (56:20) area.
So congratulations.
Take care.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you James.
Thank you.
There are no further questions coming through at this time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Appreciate all the questions Q&amp;A for today.
And with that we'll conclude the conference call.
Thank you very much for listening to the call.
Karen? Hello? I'd like to handover the call to Harold Bevis.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.