Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call on May 12 2015.
I’ll now hand the call over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2015 first quarter financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are members of our executive team at Xerium Technologies and speakers today include Harold Bevis CEO and President; Dave Pretty President of North America and Europe; Bill Butterfield EVP and Chief Technology Officer; and Cliff Pietrafitta EVP and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning and the other members of our executive team will discuss particular aspects of our Q1 2015 results then we will open the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the announcement of our Q1 2015 results in a press release and the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday May 11 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our Web site at www.xerium.com.
I’d also like to note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the Company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 12 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our Company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers is available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s first quarter of 2015 results.
At this time I’d like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our Web site for this call.
And I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from the quarter.
On Page 3 of the slide deck we’ve summarized key highlights regarding our Q1 2015 results.
Adjusted EBITDA was 26 million and a record 22% of sales.
Our business is healthy and on track for a solid year.
On a constant currency basis Q1 sales decreased about 1% over Q1 2014 due to seasonal softening.
Our rolls and service sales were up 7% in constant currency and our machine clothing sales were down 5% showing a little bit of variation in our order patterns but our business is healthy strong and growing in many areas.
And as expected our Q1 results were a little bit seasonally lower as they have been and lower than Q3 and Q4 which are higher.
Our backlog did grow in constant currency of just 4% and now stands at $161 million of advance orders which is more than a quarters worth at our rate and we are gaining new business in multiple new areas and connected to specific programs.
Our EBITDA was a 2% increase over Q1 2014 as we expected it to be and our trailing 12 month EBITDA is up to $116.5 million which is a 12% increase compared to the prior 12 month period and our outlook is quiet healthy strong and growing in many areas.
Our adjusted EPS came in at a $1.52 per share trailing 12 month which was 124% increase over the prior 12 month period.
Currency as expected did have an impact on the business it caused a decline in sales compared to the prior quarter and it caused a slight gain in EBITDA and we expect this pattern to continue through the rest of 2015 and these he foreign currency exchange rates.
Our leverage stands at 4 times which is a deleveraging of the last couple of years and we’ll continue de-levering in the second half of this year as our spending curtailed somewhat and we have began to generate more free cash flow and immediately began paying down debt.
Third quarter is just a few weeks away so that we’re ready to start that new chapter in our book.
Structural changes were heavily underway with a full pipeline of 2015 activities.
We’re going to review some of them for you today we have seven sales growth programs four capacity programs and five new cost-out programs.
Our game plan is working very well.
We have a steady market and we’re showing the pipeline for a strong 2016 to boost.
Turning to Page 4 just to get to the next level of detail on the quarterly results.
Our EBITDA were up 26.2 million a slight increase as expected.
Our full year is actually trending over our guidance we’re going to increase our guidance today Cliff is going to talk to you about that a little bit and we have improving EBITDA outlooks for our business.
Our sales and product usage were slightly seasonally weak as expected we’re very heavily tightening the production run rates of our customers and the customers tend to have a light Q1 and they did again this year and we did with them.
However our new order backlog continues to increase above market due to our explicit actions that we’re taking we’re going to review the big ones that are coming on this year and it’s up 4% which is over the market from Q4 of last year.
Our roll sales did improve 7% as I mentioned while clothing sales decreased 5%.
Both of these products are tightening the production runs on the machine so this is just a little quarterly variation they’re consumed as the same rates they should overtime be smoothed out and lay around on top of each other but at here and we are optimizing our machine clothing business.
And the next big thing for us is to open a disruptive low cost facility in Kunshan China which is -- the ramp up is just a few weeks away now that’s coming online in the third quarter we’re going through production trials now and we have three other disruptive expansions coming online in the second half of 2015 where we expect a more forward participate in growing parts of the market and in growing geographies than we have before.
We’re going to view the main actions here together in a couple of minutes.
We’re continuing our optimization of our rolls and service business with the next big thing we’re doing as opening our brand new disruptive facility in Corlu Turkey.
We have a team on site there right now led by Bernd Hahne our VP at Global Rolls Operations and we’re going through trial runs.
We have a full order book before opening that facility and it’s coming online in just a few weeks as well.
Our gross margin did improve in the quarter.
We did expect to get currency benefits and we did and we expected to have additional cost reduction and we did.
They’re partially offset by unfavorable production absorption in the plants and we saw that coming as well.
So the quarter gross margins came in as we expected.
Our gross margins now stand at 44% machine clothing excluding the start-up costs in Kunshan and our machine clothing expansions and rolls and service gross margins improved to 36% excluding the start-up cost in Corlu Turkey plant.
Our structural change program is organized and specific.
We’re trying to grow in specific areas of the market where we have had underrepresented market shares and it is definitely a multi-aspect a multi-functional aspect game plan.
We’re focused on new customers in new areas brought in by new products that are patented and new solutions on machines backed up by spending on plant expansions and machine modernizations and new capabilities.
And our plans are really helping us out a lot by having plant specific operational excellence programs as well as a portfolio of strategy to be a global low cost producer of what we do.
So the quarter was a steady growth quarter for us.
We’re continuing to invest to enact structural changes at Xerium on the cost side and on the growth side.
We’re entering faster growing markets and pursuing high growth applications in new segments.
On the next page I’ll ask Dave Pretty who is our President of both North America and Europe to give an overview on behalf of our team of the market that we are in today Dave? Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
Again just to highlight some of the factors that Harold commented on earlier.
Our 2015 market outlook remains similar to the 2014 market conditions.
To be more precise no major changes to annual or seasonal market patterns are expected.
As you can see on the chart on Slide 5 GDP grades and non-paper markets remain upbeat while rationalization consolidation continues in the newsprint and graphical grade markets.
As some of you may know I’ve been in this industry for more than 27 years and this Q1 does not feel any different than most with the respective regional seasonal and geographic market ebbs and flows.
Having said that our outlook for Q2 in the remainder of 2015 remains upbeat and we’re excited about the ongoing market and industry developments.
Our products and technology remain aimed at providing value to our global customers and by that I mean combining rolls including to create value.
To be more precise again we are focused on the global growth segments of tissue which shows great strength through ’15 forward packaging container paperboard again with great strength in 2015 forward as well as OEM tissue machine builders which we are aligned as well as the non-paper segments which include fiber cement.
As now the industry improves specialized siting continues to grow and finally in the industrial non-woven segments great growth opportunities.
Finally as you can see on Slide 5 seven of the nine grades are forecast satisfactory to good outlook for Q2 forward couple this to our growing backlog this gives a topping for another solid year.
I’ll now turn it over Bill Butterfield our Chief Technology Officer.
Thanks Dave.
First let me say I am excited about the opportunity to share with all of you the focus Xerium has on technology.
Xerium has concentrated on serving our customers’ needs through innovative unique and patented technology which is focused on solving problems improving efficiencies lowering cost in energy fiber and chemicals along with improving the quality of our customers’ products both in the paper and the non-paper segments.
We have an expansive portfolio of products with rolls and machine clothing putting us in a unique position to address our customers clothing machine needs.
We are focused on engineered solutions for our customers and this has always been a core focus for Xerium technology developments.
It’s a strength of Xerium and always has been and will continue to be so.
Because of our unique portfolio we are in a strong position to continue with this emphasis.
While we’re proud of our 700 plus roll compound portfolio.
Our expansive cutting edge and protected forming fabric press felts and engineered fabric product line along with our engineered tool box approach to customer problem solving.
We’re especially excited about our aggressive product development launches with specific growth targets into board and packaging the associated grades with those non-paper and tissue segments.
These new innovations involve unique and protected fibers in yarns smart technology and resolve total machine engineered solutions all focused on improving paper machine and non-paper equipment operations.
If we go to the slide on the left hand side of Slide Number six there are 32 new products have either come online in Q1 or in the pipeline for development in 2015 of those products 41% are in packaging 25% in non-paper and 19% in tissue.
In summary 85% of the new products that have come online or are being developed and will launch this year are targeted for these three growth markets.
If you look to the right hand side of the Slide Number 6 in the intellectual property section you can see our aggressive approach that we’ve been taking with increasing our patent portfolio.
Development activity has led to a growing patent portfolio which protects Xerium’s R&amp;D investment and future base business.
We have 415 patents in Q1 of 2015 and in the last three years that’s grown considerably as you can see from the curve.
37 patents were issued in Q1 of 2015 which gives you an example of the accelerated growth rate over the last three years.
92 patents are pending and they cover 68 inventions.
This accelerated intellectual property investment and protection is the direct result of increased new product development for future growth markets.
I’ll now turn the time back over to Harold.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Page 7 we reviewed with you overtime our major projects and I just wanted to highlight them again for you on what’s happening in the second half of this year.
We have 10 projects and 18 new products coming online in quarter two three four and the value of those is $50 million in sales $25 million EBITDA of full run rate.
We all have a fraction of the economic benefit in our guidance right now and we’ve had a lot of early victories here.
We will be looking at our quarterly it's our quarterly EBITDA guidance quarter-to-quarter now because we are starting to experience some outside performance due to these projects and I just want to give you a real look at this.
Covering the span of time it is about $84 million of cash we've spent.
Some of you have tracked that with us some haven’t it has come with 2.5 calendar years and they are coming to fruition now.
The first project that came online projects number one or two were a de-bottlenecking over our high-end tissue press felts.
And that was in [indiscernible] last year that came on in the second half of last year and an expansion of our mechanical services capabilities in the Southern U.S.
which is a fantastic market for containerboard cardboard brown paper.
The next one is a non-woven and dryer growth expansion by us in our Kentville Nova Scotia facility.
We don't have very large market shares in dryers in North America and it is partially due to the fact that we've been sold out for a long period of time and for the first time in over a decade we've renovated our product with patented solutions and we've put in place new product and capacity to make those products so that we have good lead times to service North American market.
It's coming online now as we speak.
If you look at the projects that are in the second half of this year as we get in the third quarter we have a brand new Spiral Dryer.
Our product line is coming online in João Pessoa Brazil for the Americas.
For high temperature applications we've brand new non-woven and specialty products capacity coming online in Gloggnitz Austria.
We have a brand new factory starting up at Corlu Turkey and we've already resold our business there.
We have a brand new forming powered machine coming online in Japan with specific designs with the Japanese paper and board markets.
We have expansions in our Griffin Georgia plant and our Neenah Wisconsin plant to expand on mechanical services capabilities as well as our ability to serve more business and we have our press felt plant in Kunshan China coming online as well.
This is really stacked up it’s a lot of bidding coming online at the same time and it's one of the reasons why our spending will curtail somewhat and why we are really excited about our future opportunity for growth.
As Dave mentioned on his page he has been in this business for a long time as the market is pretty steady pretty consistent there's a not a lot of this is not a fast moving market as well now.
It's steady it looks good in the right spots it looks like it's declining in a couple of others but not a lot of change.
Bill gave you an overview of how we've loaded the gun here with patented solutions to make the machines run better and we've got $84 million of spending to make the plants ready to serve and deliver these products to customers with rapid lead times and right the first time quality so we're pretty excited inside the building here about what's coming next for us and this will also help 2016-2017 it is a disruptive agenda it's backed up by a lot of patents over 200 of them.
These patents are solutions that we have for machines to run better that cannot be duplicated or mimicked by others they are assets.
And it is coming in at a time across multiple products and multiple geographies and we're not slowing down as Bill mentioned we have 90 other invention patents in the pipeline to help future periods so it's a big effort by us and we expect to have big upside from it.
Turning to Page 8 putting in perspective here the last couple of years the work that we've done these projects are really a result our a big repositioning we've done of our footprint and our productive assets for us to grow.
We've closed six plants we've closed the João Pessoa almost closed now in the lower right corner and we've repositioned those assets in 12 other locations that have better profile specs and we've re-purposed many of the machines to make products that they weren’t making before.
As an example the João Pessoa was a forming fabric facility that was duplicative to the Piracicaba facility we took some of the loans and repurposed them to make woven dryers and we're installing them in Kentville Nova Scotia to make dryers for the North American market.
Worst is forming fabrics for the South American market it's been capital efficient what we've done we've reused a lot of the machines that we already owned and were on our book above and we reinstalled them in the new locations to perform different duties for us on a go forward basis.
So we still have a couple of more rationalization to do but it is slowing down now.
And we've been through a big-big pushover here and you can see the magnitude of it on Page 8 so we're quite excited about it.
They'll give us new opportunity to grow.
This repositioning fundamentally was about getting a higher performing top-line higher sales growth.
I'd like to turn your attention to the first quarter a little more deep-dive into the numbers and I'd like to turn it over to Cliff Pietrafitta our Chief Financial Officer.
Cliff?<br> Yes.
Thank you Harold.
As shown on Slide 9 our Rolls and Services sales increased by 7.4% in Q1 of 2015.
Roll sales results were above market and continued to be aided by our increasing efforts mechanical services and successful new product introductions.
In addition the new facility in Corlu Turkey and the two plant expansions in Griffin Georgia and Neenah Wisconsin come online in the second half of 2015 and all will contribute to the successful growth of our global rolls and service business.
Our machine clothing business declined 5% from Q1 2014 to Q1 2015 in line with declines in graphical grade markets as well as mill closures and soft sales in Japan.
And we are taking actions to address the declines in our machine clothing business by focusing on excess capacity in certain locations and opening a new low cost machine clothing facility in Kunshan China in the second half of 2015.
Moving to Slide 10 adjusted EBITDA grew to 22% of sales and the reminder of 2015 adjusted EBITDA is expected to hit higher in both dollars and percent.
Our business is healthy and strong and both of our operating segments are continuing to contribute to adjusted EBITDA in a meaningful way.
Machine clothing contributed 21.8 million in Q1 of 2015 up 0.4 million from 21.4 million in Q1 of 2014 driven primarily by favorable FX effects and continued cost reduction and partially offset by lower sales volumes.
Rolls and services contributed 8.1 million in Q1 of 2015 up 0.7 million from 7.4 million in Q1 of 2014 driven primarily by increased sales volume and continued cost reductions partially offset by unfavorable FX effects.
Slide 11 shows our Q1 2015 and trailing 12 month basic adjusted EPS results.
Trailing 12 month basic adjusted EPS for Q1 2015 was $1.52 of 124% from $0.68 per share in 2014.
This increase is primarily driven by the improvement in gross margins and our cost reduction initiatives.
Slide 12 shows that 2015 projected adjusted EBITDA guidance has improved to 120 million to 122 million our business is exceeding our expectations.
This represents an increase of approximately 3% to 5% over 2014 adjusted EBITDA of 116 million.
As Harold mentioned previously we've 25 million of full year run rate EBITDA coming online in the future related to current growth capital expenditure projects.
We will update our progress each quarter against this partially our update this quarter is that we're increasing the upper-end of our guidance range to 122 million while remaining tethered to the low-end of our prior guidance of 120 million.
We're on-track to deliver another solid year of improvement turning the corner to add debt reduction to the program as planned in the second half of this year.
As shown on Slide 13 as we turn the discussion on to full year 2015 expectations.
Full year 2015 is shaping up to be a solid year for Xerium.
Net sales volumes are expected to increase by approximately 1% in constant currency with seasonally stronger Q2 and Q3 ahead of us.
We are repositioning for the long-term and transitioning from declining markets into new growth markets with some short-term pain along the way.
Adjusted EBITDA expectations improved to a range of 120 million to 122 million assuming current FX rates and our structural change program is fully underway.
In addition our plant network and commercial readiness-to-serve is going through a step-change transformation in 2015 involving 10 plants in 8 countries.
Further our debt pay-down program begins in Q3 as planned.
Finally several important cost reduction programs capacity expansions and new products will come online in late 2015 which will set up another strengthening year in 2016.
Overall our business is healthy and on-track.
Thank you Cliff.
And that concludes our prepared remarks and now we're ready for questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic.
Your line is open.
Quick question regarding debt pay-down program can you remind us what the plan is just for the next two-three years? The plan over the next two to three years is to debt pay-down the debt beginning in the second half of this year we will ramp-up gradually we expect to pay-down about $10 million of our term debt this year as with plants that will increase over the next couple of years.
We expect to get our leverage ratio down around three times over that three year period and that over a longer period of time we expect to cut the in half but again it is out five to six years.
That was by I think the last time you mentioned by 2020? Yes correct.
On the last conference call you guided for free cash flow of about 9 million to 10 million does that still hold? 5 million to 10 million yes free cash flow is still the same as we said last quarter.
And Katja as we continue trending up our guidance and EBITDA we've to also trend up our amount of free cash flow dollar-for-dollar so you are right with what you said so we're expanding our range a low bit with the outlook for free cash flow and right now we're trending above that guidance but we don't want to get too in front of ourselves and so we're just increasing that expectation range right now which also commensurately increases our range of free cash flow we don't intend to spend more we intend to pay-down debt more.
My next question goes to the EBITDA you mentioned that the new projects could potentially add about 25 million if I'm correct why don’t you include that in you guidance what's stopping you? Well we have to fill the capacity obviously and rather than going for large accounts per se we're going position-by-position and winning we've engaged in technical run offs machine-by-machine.
And if you look at this year's amount Katja there is only $2 million or $3 million in our guidance if we happen to have bigger wins there are a few big global RFPs out there.
There is also new regions that we're entering there is new products that we're offering.
So if we have a higher success rate as we have increased success we will increase our guidance and it will be sales performance.
Because we're pretty much a given and committed to our cost-out plan for the year we expect to reduce about 22 million take about 22 million of cost out of the business this year versus last year.
The market looks if you looked at the update on numero analytics or any of these guides the markets is going be up around 1%.
So it's same kind of market environment we're taking the same kind of cost out of the business.
The big change for us is the sales growth initiatives we've replaced that are powered by patented products that deliver machine performance that hasn’t been offered.
And as we get those wins they will fill that new capacity.
And internally we've committed to three year fill rates Katja if we happen to have success rates faster than it will drive our guidance up on EBITDA and it will also drive our free cash flow guidance up.
But sitting here today the facts that we have in our hands suggest that we should just stretch our guidance a little bit.
Just one last question what's happened in Japan? You mentioned in your prepared remarks that it was a soft quarter there.
Do you see a recovery? We do and also on the phone we have Paul Wang who is the President of Asia region he is calling in from Shanghai Paul would you take that question please? Yes I know that the for Asia our view for the market still remain unchanged and specifically if you look at the China particularly that we are very excited about their government have turned into the internal growth of consumer consumption.
And that have been yielding the growth and support despite that the export has been slowing down.
But still they end up with their GDP of 7%.
And that story still not only in China in South Asia we are also seeing the growth potential.
So our view of the Asia growth are unchanged and we're still excited about the opportunity and if I may to add another factor if you look at our company portfolio the Asia is on a handful 20% of our business.
But Asia on the global paper market is actually 45%.
So just by that factor alone there is still a lot of the potential for us to grow there.
And Paul on the Japan softness that we saw in Q1 could you elaborate on that just the temporary nature of that? Yes on the Japan side that for everybody on the call that some of you probably know that the end of the year is March.
So what we have been seeing that some of our customer when they closed to the end of the year that they have been slowing down the ordering and that was the contributing factor for our slowed volume a little bit via slide off on the first quarter.
But as know is already in May we are already seeing that the volume starts to swing back on the April and the backlog of the May and June is already been picking up.
So we still maintain our full year view on the Japan's market.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa Tan.
Your line is open.
Just a quick follow-up to the previous caller in terms of updated guidance for 2015 that 2 million.
Would you consider that 2 million more of incremental EBITDA from your new project or that will be more of currency impact? Well you are talking about the increasing guidance that we have? Yes moving from 120 to 122 I just want to understand if it's organic growth or it is more driven by currency type of benefit.
To be honest our internal roll up actually is way over our guidance level.
And it's a combination of sales growth cost down and currency.
So I want to pin the range increase to one factor.
We just have strength in the major initiatives that we're pushing and currency is helping us and our strategic trials are going well for our new products and our new capacity and we have very heavy pre-ordering in a couple of our products and capacity we have brought online.
So once I’d say it’s balanced it’s a balanced increase and it’s beneath our roll ups by a lot.
So as we gain confidence and start to actually deliver numbers we’ll increase our guidance but we’ve been pretty disciplined about not overwriting where we are headed and letting our numbers do the talking and so Q1 was seasonally soft as we thought but Q2 Q3 Q4 look really good in terms of cost out sales growth and the projects and the spending too because you are always deferring the cost overruns on projects.
So the spending looks like it is coming in like we thought cost-out like we thought.
Sales growth is a little better and it bodes down to call offs and getting successful trials.
Dave do you want to add any color to that on the how fast we could build a new capacity and what the drivers are in the market.
Yes Harold in terms of the strategic penetrations into the markets that we referred to earlier on on the tissue segments and the packaging group we are adding success new penetration into customers that previously have not served before in those segments both in Europe and in North America and to Harold’s point about three fill rates definitely the trials can lead to improved sale of those plants.
And in terms of 25 million of guidance that you give in for the new projects when do you expect the majority of that starting to kick in will you say that is more of a 2016 or 2017 story? They are 36 month fill rates is what we signed up for so it’s basically it starts in Q3 over the prior 36 months just like the question on the debt pay down if you look at… Okay.
…that 36 month period we’re trying to pay down around $100 million of debt during that 36 month period which crosses four calendar years which Katja picked up on so these projects are coming online it is multi years of sales growth capacity.
So we don’t need to do that spending every single year.
So we have pre-spent $84 million to put in place that capacity which we believe will solve the problem for us for several years and we’ll pay down debt during that interim period.
If we happen to have higher success sooner it would cause us to expand sooner.
So we’re not going to over commit the free cash flow here because we will have higher EBITDA but we would be reinvesting for more growth if that happens.
If sales penetration is lower than we think then it will allow us even further and we’ll spend our additional spending from the outside further.
So I think the $100 million debt pay down is pretty safe here and the EBITDA growth is going to depend on winning the way we want to win and the way we’re trying to be technology winner here and so we’re leading where patented machine technology and we’re trying to win technical run-offs.
We’re not going up and matching practice of winning one.
We’re trying to win by showing machine operators and OEM machine builders that our products will make their machines work better and each one of the products that built again into a lot of detail on these patents we have brought online which is now over 150 on the inventions they are buying but each one of them is geared towards a technical win.
It’s the same way our other public peer competes we like that competition.
It makes for a good industry structure and that’s the way we’re going to win.
So right now we’re being I think we’re picking in middle of the road success rate expecting higher favorable concern but right now it is slower because we’re already on to a stronger rate and we expect it because we’re increasing our guidance.
So we’re going to look at it every quarter though we’re going to be a honest reporter.
So if our progress is a little better than we’re going to increase our range and if it is not we are not.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer.
Your line is open.
Just specifically you guys you have given this $25 million additional EBITDA guidance coming in the future what period of times specifically is that is that ’16-’17 could you be a little more specific on when you think you can achieve that? Sure.
Now we’re talking specifically about our sales growth programs.
On top of that we do have a multiyear cost-out program.
And we’ve taken a lot of cost-out of this business and we have a multiyear plan to continue doing so.
Those projects have to do with a benefit from extra sales and the value of the capacity that we have put in place at today’s favorable contribution margins that’s the value of that capacity.
Our contribution margins around 50% when you look at our numbers.
And therefore we have about 50% kind of value of that extra sales capacity.
So that capacity gets down to square footage tonnes and number of rolls and suction boxes that you could service with the capacity we have brought in line.
The guidance and we have committed to ourselves and to our Board of Directors that that capacity is sufficient for 36 months.
And the clock starts ticking when it comes online and if you see how those stars are aligned into the second half and they’re pretty much focused on Q3 even on top of that if we’re more precise.
So Adam starting in the third quarter which is what six weeks from now we have a bunch of capacity coming online.
We have been working on the trials for over 1 year preceding these so you have pre-orders and so this is a culmination really in the beginning and we are hitting the ground running with patented products being sold into some cases new customers in new regions.
And I would expect that in the -- put a line on it we're signing up for gradual right now if we could think about that in the next call.
But right now we're thinking of a gradual fill and the pre-ordering that we’ve got in advance of these projects coupled with the strong success the plant’s have had pat reducing cost have led us to increase our guidance already for this year.
I don’t mean to interrupt you but let me just refocus on the question.
You guys say you have 25 million additional EBITDA coming in the future.
Is the future ’16-’17 is it ‘18 ’19 ’20 when specifically do you think you could add that additional 25 million? Well said there is 3 million in this year so take 25 minus 3 you got 23 left and we said it will cover in 36 months I have said please make it uniform across the period.
So if you look at the cumulative deal you will have an additional amount in ’15 and ’17 we will have full run rate in the second quarter of ’18.
Okay so full one rate so basically this is 2018 additional EBITDA on top of what you're guiding this year okay I got it.
And could you go over your CapEx program for ’16 ’17 ’18 as well? We haven’t guided to the future CapEx yet Adam and I just want to make sure that you get the whole picture though.
You spread the value of our sales growth correctly there with your assessment but we also have taken additional in that cost out of the business is quite significant.
So our future business model is a balance program of the value of additional sales growth and the value of additional cost out net.
So the total outlook for the business is a combination of those two right so it's cost out in sales growth and as far as guidance for EBITDA growth for those future years we haven’t given multi-year guidance in EBITDA growth of spending at this time.
We did give some guidance here today on and we have previously when asked on debt pay down because it's important to a lot of people.
But we have not articulated multi-year EBITDA guidance.
Well you kind of gave EBITDA guidance and you gave debt pay down guidance.
So I'm trying to figure out exactly how you get to this debt pay down free cash flow.
So if I don’t have the CapEx guidance it's kind of hard to get there? We're only giving 2015 guidance right.
We're not going to get '16 or '17 Adam [indiscernible]? Okay some kind of taking you at your word with the EBITDA not knowing what your CapEx is how you are going to pay down 100 million of debt right? I guess so.
And my last question is you guys have did a little worse this quarter on the PMC side.
Obviously you guys listen to Albany's calls Albany is seemed to be doing better in PMC this quarter.
What do you think the difference is are there operating in different parts of the world is something going on between you two guys in terms of market share? Now they have a different portfolio than us they have a big market share in dryers and they have transfer belts which we don’t make they have coordinator belts that we don’t make they have shoe pressers that we don’t make.
And they are significantly larger in Asia and as Paul mentioned Asia has its own ordering patterns with Chinese New Year and then of course Japan is on a March fiscal.
And so the order patterns in Asia are different and they have a different mix regarding head-to-head we are very much the same they've been very consistent with their comments.
So if you look at products production run rates at the customer level and look at where is the numero in lots of third parties.
Machines there is a lot of data on this industry and machines are soft in Q1 probably period end of story with regards to ordering patterns to what Albany makes they’ve been very consistent that they have heavy ordering in Q1 that’s not connected to machine run rates and I'm sure that is true.
I'm not inside they're door there it’s also true that we don’t have their portfolio we don’t have their geographic line up and so our patterns are unique to us.
So I would say they are right with what they're saying and they've been consistent and we're right with what we say and we have been consistent.
They tend to have a strong Q1 we don’t we tend to have a strong Q3 and they don’t.
Okay it's basically different product set and they have obviously a little more exposure in Asia that’s doing better right now.
Okay great I really appreciate the color.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Young.
Your line is open.
Just respect to the order backlog talked to about being up 4% could you give a breakdown or just a little bit more color on is that on the machine clothing side or the wall cover work side and then also just what the issues that you had in Japan is that order backlog maybe even bigger today on May 12th versus where you were on March 31st? Thank you Anthony.
On Japan it just temporary ordering patterns due to the fiscal year and it is financially not that material to us to be honest it's not swinging a lot of numbers for us.
In terms of the breakdown between PMC and rolls both of them are up nicely in terms of dollars they are very similar and in terms of dollars amount as they're up in constant currency.
In terms of regional we're pretty much up in every region as well up a lot in North America and in terms of our backlog flat South America Europe up below Asia for a lot.
So in France we expected I guess the thing to say Anthony is the first quarter we expected it to the soft and it was just a little softer than we thought.
But the bounce back is what it should be given the production run rates that are publically listed and so the expectation for the year is the same same for us which is we're going to be around 1% which is the market.
But it could have upside potential for us due to our exclusive actions that we're underway with.
And we haven’t guided to that we're basically guiding the market growth.
But we're seeing some stretch already as the success from our project.
So that's where we're seeing the upside the Japan thing was temporary it's already come and gone but it was true and so we have had it one of the factors in Q1.
And we have a very high quality backlog a lot of tissue a lot of packaging and we've been successfully net replacing things that are declining and ending up with a positive backlog but obviously when you have a declining segment the backlogs are going down in those areas and then you have things that are going up.
So it's a net be up that amount when you do the math of the market net being up 1 we net gain positions.
Okay.
And so it was a winning on a go forward basis that was a winning quarter in terms of 10 multiple sales in the quarter run rates are soft as we thought it looked a even softer than we thought.
Okay.
And then with respect to all the patents that you guys have filed and as far as these patents go are there just will be used in your technical run offs or I mean is there going to be some capital that will be necessary to implement some of these things in out years or I mean are these sort of cheap options that you guys have like on the business right now? Well it's mainly parcel to our finishing that we're doing if you look at our prior expansion our woven prior expansion we're doing in Kentville is with brand new product designs new yarns if you look our spiral dryer expansion we're doing it is with new designs new yarns new machines.
If you look at our non-woven expansion that we're going not-woven fabric production at Gloggnitz there we are seeing new designs new yarns.
So we've tried to be different and disruptive in each case disruptive in terms of differential machine performance for the customer.
So that they get benefits from our product and each one of them we have -- if they are not they require machine investment too in large part different tensions that's required different stabilities are required and in the rolls business and mechanical services business.
We've taken the opportunity as we've expand our capacity to enhance our capabilities for each one of the things.
I can’t think of one project where we didn’t try to advance our capabilities and the value to the customer on any of our spending.
So we're disciplined with what we are doing and we're trying to be disruptive.
We're trying to give the customers a technical reason to change and run our products.
And so far so good and we've been we're off to a good start on that Anthony.
Your next question comes from the line of John.
Your line is open.
I would first this I think is the last time I'll do it but Harold thank you very much for the slide deck it's great to see it helps me a lot in understanding where you're going.
I'd like to focus on Page 7 and tie that back a little to Page 5 one of the things I've seen in 7 is that 2015 is clearly a year you have tried to get projects up and running.
And I don't really want 2016 guidance on revenue and EBITDA but I'm wondering if 2016 also has a list of 10 stars on it that will be projects that will come online in 2016 that’s question number one and then will get to Slide 5? Okay.
I’ll switch to Page 7 and the simple answer on 2016 on the stars; no sir we’re not going to have a wind up like that.
Again this is a culmination of many-many years of effort by Bill’s team our sales team to get trials our application and engineering team in the fields to apply these products directly and this is a lot of activity that’s non-recurring and it was needed to be done it was latent if you will if it had not been acted upon for a period of time.
It was one of the key aspects of how we wanted to turn around the performance of this company and we were jammed up just a couple of years ago and not being able to grow in areas that we’re growing and this de-bottlenecks I think that we did enroll we didn’t pull and punched here.
So the Board of Directors was on the same page with fixing these problems and we have advocated a strong corrective agenda and we’ve implemented it.
So the 2015 and 2016 version of Page 7 is very-very ting.
We might have one or two stars.
That’s fine I just kind of wanting to get that but I think it ties to Adam’s question about CapEx.
We can’t kind of -- you don’t have to give me guidance but I can kind of assume that the CapEx will be coming down in 2016? It will come down a little the best thing that we have in front of us is our discretions and we have a little growth on our plan of rationalization to do and it is expensive.
I would then also say that the Page that you referred to I am just going to go to Page 8 again if you look at the six plants that we have closed on Page 8 in the bottom right hand corner we more or less closed the easy ones first and the hard ones and the big pay back ones are in front of us.
The fact is that our desecration when we do them.
But they are expensive in terms of severance and then the reemployment of the machines and for alternate location.
So we do not have a Board approved plan for next year I’m not withholding answering.
We don’t have a Board approved plan for you next year and I don’t want to forward step my authority or even the truth.
So when we have a plan for next year I’d happy to articulate it.
Yes I believe it will come down and the fact that we’re not going to do these extra sales professions but I also mentioned when Adam was speaking we have a very strong cost out again that still remains to be down and covers a five year period go forward and it requires spending in terms of severance and redeployment of assets in the growth locations.
The main way we’re going to keep growing here without finding machines is deployment of assets that are going to be in orphan facilities and we re-disposition those assets into growth locations and so we will take machines we already own and reinstall them so with proper upgrades to repurpose them.
So we’re not down on the cost side but yes we’re going to take a pause on the sales growth activities.
So yes I believe the spending will come down and as a percentage of our free cash flow I mean if you look at last year we were at $116 million of EBITDA plus we paid a $25 million tax payment to Brazil to settlement contingent liability that we had for 10 years.
We don’t have to do that every year and so going into next year you’re going to have a higher EBITDA rate less spending more net free cash flow to pay down debt.
So we don’t have to really the cut spending off tremendously to do what we are doing.
It’s a gradual program the numbers that Cliff gave on the 100 million of our 36 months is really a gradual program if we wanted to expedite that pay down we could and we could spend nothing and not get after the cost stuff and pay down debt very much these are conversations we have with the Board of Director [indiscernible] so I’m not going to articulate anything different than what we’ve done which is taking cost out of the business [indiscernible] I am saying we are going to spend the last on the sales growth and so we will be taking the capital down gradually.
Okay.
I just want -- you always lift your non-paper fibers from that non-woven segment how is that coming? The products is the fair question on the non-woven side our products are performing extremely well during trials.
So then it is a real cynicy product with picking fluffing and a lot of specific one really get into on chain performance but we’ve had some big wins at big accounts and they have had some machines that are called riffle build machines and the big customers in this area are well know I don’t want to customer names but we have landed one big premier global customer we are up and running.
On fiber cement the products are little less cynicy than the non-woven side we have some difficulty with our designs early on but we guided it out it lagged a little bit the success rate within our non-woven and the fiber cement market 80% of it is outside of North America.
So it's primarily a global business for us.
And lead times matter so the debottlenecking activity of bringing the Kunshan plant will unlock some capacity that we will have in order to serve that market.
So that one we're waiting on the debottlenecking of fiber of press felt productive capacity nonwoven can be made in our forming fiber plants and we had a little bit open capacity there.
So let’s say nonwoven is doing a little bit better than fiber cement.
But fiber cement is coming on strong both of them we've a lot of upside on both of them.
And we expect to fully participate in the growth of those businesses with patented products.
Okay.
The final question is as it is easy for everyone on this call to hear your enthusiasm and the amount of pride you have in the first quarter results and what you're looking forward to in the next nine months in 2015.
But I'll just throw the cautionary question out there what's troubling you about the industry that may hurt the progress you're making to-date? The biggest concerns we've internally are really not market risk they are operational risks.
So we're doing a lot of projects here in farewell.
We're not a huge team all of us are personally leading some of these projects the market I think is well known well articulated if there is about an ugly here and they are trends they are not a disjointing movements they are trends that are underway and knowable and you could see them coming and all I have to do is study them and then if you could see them.
With regards to operational risks thing happen machine delays training cost of crap rates has start up.
So most of our concerns around operational risk on the market risk side which you did mention the one that is unpredictable is mill closures line closures in the graph of way business you just don’t know who is going to blink you don't know what line what mills to close and when we have all the cash cost per unit things we can predict what we think is going to happen it's 50:50 because these are big companies and they're starting to optimize their own business game plan.
So there is an unpredictable part of this that is definitely is in place but in terms of competitor behavior it is consistent and good fast void evolving we all compete on technology we're all trying to beat each other in technology very happy about that.
And we're doing a lot more than others we are probably doing more than everybody combined to reposition our company and so as the monkey is on our back to start with some operational risks I don’t know if that helps.
John? Can you hear me? We can hear you.
Sir you're still on? He may have disconnected.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Howard Bilerman.
Your line is open.
Harold can you just tell us what is your current leverage ratio and what are you anticipating at the end of the year after do you pay-down some debt? Yes the current ratio is at 4 times and we expect to be by the end of the year we'll be just under that [Multiple Speakers].
Pardon me I'm sorry [indiscernible].
In the high threes 3.8 to 3.9 somewhere in that range I guess [indiscernible].
Next question is a lot of discussion around free cash flow and debt pay-down you're eight and seven eight step down in 30 days the core price steps down to 104.
Just a mere refinancing of these high cost notes could be worth considerable amount of cash flow to you what's your thoughts on refinancing you're outstanding debt? You're right.
That our cash interest is $33 million to $34 million the cost to refinance definitely goes down if we refinance obviously our debt will go up because we will capitalize on the refinancing costs which are banks lawyers and the call premium so that would make our debt go up temporarily in the short-term.
Our current game plan is to refinance next year but we're monitoring the rates and it's the market there and we feel that the rates are going to go up a lot we will pull the trigger on that we have proposal in house or market aware the best place for our debt probably is Europe not the United States we have a big NOL in the U.S.
We have unencumbered assets in Europe and Asia and the right set up for us is to have fixed and variable debt because we do plan on extinguishing debt beginning in the third quarter and so we don’t want to get jammed up with our ability -- we don’t want to basket in our way that would prohibit us from taking debt down significant debt down significantly leveraging.
So optimal design has with cash yields scenarios where we pay a tax which is not in the U.S.
and as us with the right step up with variable so that we can extinguish it.
And that’s kind of the problem we are staying on top of it though we’re not against it for this year but it’s not in the current plan and we’re watching the satellite as you are as a real company and we’re aware of rate outlooks.
But they are getable you are right the costs to do the transaction is going out of 30 days and we’re well aware of that.
Okay Howard Just to do a little back of the envelope here and add a little bit more fuel to that if you save yourself 2% in interest rates that’s $5 million in free cash flow your premium is only 10 million that’s a two year payback period.
It’s a very-very attractive payback period.
And to your point we don’t know how long the window stays open in terms of refinancing.
So to me $5 million in free cash flow seems like a pretty just in refinancing it now seem like a pretty easy way to pick up 50% more free cash flow in this year.
If anyway that so I think I’d made that point.
My other question was Brazil is Brazil is done is there anymore liability out there or Brazil has past us at this point.
Actually we have with us also Shannon our tax leader Shannon? Yes actually we’re happy to say that we have our Brazil issue behind us as of 2014.
We have no more updating liabilities related to Brazil.
Okay perfect.
And one more on that subject how about the pension liability do you need to make a lump-sum contribution anytime soon to your pension plan? No our contribution will be roughly $1 million higher than our expenses so $6 million this year is not a lump-sum catch up it’s just the normal few things that we’ve been making into our plan.
There are no additional audio questions in queue.
I’m going to turn it back over to Mr.
Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for your thoughtful questions and for joining our first quarter earnings call.
Look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter earnings call.
And with that we’ll adjourn the call for today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you again for joining us.
This does conclude today’s webcast.
You may now disconnect.