Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call on August 11 2015.
I’ll now hand the call over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2015 second quarter financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning is Harold Bevis CEO and President Xerium Technologies; Cliff Pietrafitta EVP and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Butterfield EVP and Chief Technology Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning with Cliff and Bill discussing Q2 2015 highlights in their respective areas.
Then we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the announcement of our Q2 2015 results in a press release and the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday August 10 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage of our Web site at www.xerium.com.
I’d also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 11 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s second quarter 2015 results and at this time I’d like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from the quarter.
On Slide 3 of the presentation we’ve summarized key highlights regarding the second quarter 2015 results.
On a constant currency basis Q2 2015 sales increased about 3% over Q1 2015 driven by an increase of little over 3% in machine clothing primarily due to an increase in sales in Asia and South America and also an increase of about 2% sales in rolls and services primarily as a result of increased OEM sales and increases of sales in both Europe and South America.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in North American sales as a result of temporary decline in mechanical service sales in North America.
Gross margins excluding plant startup costs were 41% of sales in Q2 marking the 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of margin improvement.
Our continued cost out and operational excellence initiatives have helped drive this improvement.
On a trailing 12 month basis adjusted EBITDA improved 8% to $115.1 million from $106.4 million for the same period in 2014.
On a quarterly basis adjusted EBITDA improved 7% to $28 million in Q2 from $26.2 million in Q1 2015 and this marks the fifth consecutive quarter of improved EBITDA margins.
These improvements demonstrate that despite current industry headwinds our long term cost out and operational excellence initiatives are delivering results.
Q2 2015 adjusted EPS was $0.37 a share an increase of 32% over $0.28 per share in Q1.
This improvement was primarily driven by increased sales the improvement in gross margins and improved SG&amp;A expenses.
In Q2 2015 currency negatively impacted sales EBITDA and free cash flow and based on the latest updates we believe that will continue in the second half of 2015 as the outlook for the euro to dollar has worsened.
Our net debt leverage ratio was 4.1x in Q2 substantially the same as 4.0x in Q1.
We expect our net debt and leverage to improve in the second half of 2015 as free cash flow becomes positive and we begin to pay down debt.
Lastly our 2.5 year $87 million sales growth investment program is approaching a start-up with plants coming online in the second half of 2015.
This program contains many new sales growth angles with positive financial returns.
Turning to Page 4 to see a scorecard of our performance in the quarter.
With the exception of weak sales in North America due to declining graphical grade market we are hitting on all cylinders.
Unfortunately we expect North American sales to continue to be soft in the second half of 2015 and in response to this we have taken additional fixed costs out of North America with the closure of our large plant in Warwick Quebec Canada.
We continue to expect benefits from our sales growth investment programs and our cost out initiatives as well as sales growth in Asia and South America.
Moving to Slide 5 the forecast as published by [Indiscernible] for the markets we serve has remained soft.
GDP grades of paper packaging tissue and non-paper markets remain stable and that covers about 75% of the market while rationalization curtailment consolidation continues in the graphical grade markets which make up the remaining 25% of the market.
Regional year-to-date May data versus the prior year period continues to highlight positive momentum in China Asia and South America which are both up a little over 1% respectively with Europe flat and North America down 1%.
The non-paper segments we serve primarily fiber cement and industrial non-woven are stable.
We expect second half market conditions to be very similar to the first half of the year and this is in concert with the new expectations being disseminated with our large customers.
In response to the changing market conditions Xerium’s counteracting sales strategy [Indiscernible] to enter new markets segments that represent the greatest revenue growth opportunities redeploy our sales and service assets to new and emerging geographic regions and launch new products aimed at the non-declining segments of the market.
We are on track with our initiatives.
On page 6 we have provided a timeline of the 10 main programs coming online.
These projects together have required $87 million of investment and expand the life 2.5 years and involve two new plants and eight expansions in seven countries.
This has been a broad program and we expect these projects to deliver over $25 million in adjusted EBITDA at full run rates.
This is a disruptive yet balanced growth program across multiple products and geographies powered by a record-breaking innovation program.
While we are excited about every single one of the projects I want to focus on three.
First and foremost we announced in mid-July that production at our Kunshan China press felt plant has started after two years of construction.
And consistent with our strategy this Greenfield facility is strategically positioned in the largest paper market in the world.
It is located in the heart of the Yangtze River paper-making region of China.
The central machine and the foundation in that plant the main machine weighs almost 1 million pounds and with that main machine the plant at that main machine is over 15 meters wide and we are able to service the largest pulp paper board tissue machines in the world building on our competitive advantages versus our industry peers.
We also moved and reincorporated Xerium’s Asia headquarters into the Shanghai free-trade zone.
This special Chinese government approval allows Xerium import and export at the lowest possible cost expedite customs processing provide shorter lead times for material transfer and enable maximum leverage of working capital.
Second we also announced in July that we commissioned a new business start-up in Corlu Turkey.
This will serve as a regional hub for Xerium to serve customers in Turkey south-east Europe and the Middle East.
We have served these regions for many decades as an exporter and will now service them locally with state of the art extrusion and polyurethane technology.
The plant has one of the largest grinding machines in the region and was built to handle rolls up to 80 metric tons in weight.
This will enable Xerium to service roles from any industry or application and also given that we will be local customers will immediately receive better prices and shorter lead times their price levels will come down as a result of logistic savings versus other options.
This new business start-up is part of our investment strategy to realign our global business model and factory locations to be better positioned on the fastest growing regional markets.
The third point I want to mention is our Piracicaba Brazil expansion including our plant restructuring efforts remains on track to be completed in late 2015 after three years and $9 million of investments.
We will have expanded that plant to offer the highest quality driers and upgraded our spiral dryer and woven drier capacity our forming fabric capacity and nonwoven fabric production as well as new designs and a technology transfer to South America.
This facility will significantly reduce lead times for our customers while enabling us to consolidate three mid-sized South American plants into one low-cost full scale plant in Piracicaba.
So as you have heard a few of these comments we have achieved some important milestones in the quarter and in this quarter to date and we have several more that we will reach in the second half of the year.
This will collectively complement our legacy operations and further optimize our global footprint locating us closer to key customers and reducing our lead times and cost to customers which will ultimately increase our competitive advantage and make us a far more attractive supplier to keep customers in fast growing regions of the market.
This will also not only expand the breadth of our product offerings and increase our exposure to the most attractive regional markets but it will also make us less vulnerable as a company to the less resilient type legacy markets.
So after 2.5 years of designing planning constructing and heavy investments we are now in the commissioning stage in the start up stage which will continue through the remainder of the second half of this year.
It is a major structural transformation from almost every perspective.
It has been a broad program and it will drive improvements and opportunities from many angles to enable us to grow sales and offset declining areas of the market.
The value of these investments exceeds $25 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Now I want to turn the call over for a moment to Bill Butterfield our Chief Technology Officer to discuss the innovation program which has been coupled together with these plant investments and which will be a key factor in driving future sales growth.
Bill? Thanks Harold.
Good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide number 7 I’m excited to bring you up to speed on the new – on our new products and intellectual property.
Our global technology focus is exclusively on new products for future growth.
I would like to mention just a few of those highlights as we go through this – of our new product development.
Xerium has over 700 roll compounds in our portfolio and we have accelerated our mechanical service offerings and are the global standard setter for suction roll refurbishment.
Our newest smart roll technology for suction rolls has provided tissue paper makers with knowledge never before available to them bringing the operation of the Yankee pressure roll and tissue machine.
We are now able to determine what their operational profile looks like on the Yankee driers used in tissue manufacturing which prior to this innovation was not possible.
There are other new and exciting smart roll features which are coming online as we speak today and we will be able to mention those in future calls.
In our newest machine clothing development Xerium has worked with our suppliers to develop two new yarn and fiber technologies only available to Xerium which have been successfully trialed in fiber cement and paper machine forming applications.
Our newest press felt introduction of QS or Quick Saturation technology has revolutionized the start up cycle of a press felt on a paper machine and is the next generation of our highly successful booster technology.
Xerium has a unique position of combining rolls and clothing together for total paper machine optimization.
As a result of our focus on improving our customers’ operations our engineering group has developed an optimization algorithm program called [resolve].
[Resolve] takes 400 plus input variables for an operating paper machine and links together the forming pressing and drying sections of the machine to predict operational performance enhancements.
We recently introduced this new technology at the RISI Asian Conference in Shanghai China.
Field trials have been extremely successful.
We continue to target our technology investment at future growth segments both in paper and non-paper markets with 32 new products that have either come online in the first half of 2015 or in the pipeline for development in 2015.
Of those products 41% are in packaging 25% are in paper 19% are in tissue and 9% are in pulp or you can see that we have focused on our growth markets.
In summary 94% of those new products are targeted for these growth markets.
Now for an update on Xerium’s patents and intellectual property program.
This aggressive development activity has led to a growing patent portfolio that protects Xerium’s R&amp;D investment in future-based business.
We have 425 patents as of June 30 2015 with 39 being issued in 2015.
We have 97 patents pending and 69 invention topics.
This accelerated intellectual property investment and protection is the direct result of increased new product development for future growth markets.
And now I will turn the call over to Cliff our EVP and Chief Financial Officer for his comments on the quarter and outlook.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 8 adjusted EBITDA grew to 23% of sales and the second half of 2015 adjusted EBITDA is expected to hit higher in both dollars and percent as we continue to deliver adjusted EBITDA margin improvement despite the sometimes difficult regional industry condition.
We are proud of our team’s success improving the adjusted EBITDA margin from 16% in 2012 to 23% today and we look forward to continued improvement in the upcoming stages of our transformation.
One Slide 9 which shows our basic adjusted EPS of $0.37 per share now that represents an increase of 32% over $0.28 per share in Q1 2015.
This improvement was primarily driven by the improvement in sales and gross margins and reduced SG&amp;A expenses.
And now turning to the final slide as we have mentioned today and in the past we are repositioning for the long term and transitioning from declining markets into new growth markets with short-term [Indiscernible] along the way which we experienced during the second quarter this year.
Consequently sales fell short of expectations in the quarter as the graphical grade markets were softer than expected especially in North America.
We expect this trend to continue but it will begin to be offset by sales growth programs that are currently coming online.
To add a little more color to this as we progressed through the first quarter we saw an improving sales environment.
The sales trend in Q2 was more positive as well but remained below our expectations.
So while we expect second half 2015 adjusted EBITDA results to improve over the first half of 2015 we expect full-year adjusted EBITDA results to be similar to last year results on a constant currency basis as the Q2 graphical grades market is not expected to recover.
Our guidance assumes a continuation of the weak graphical grade markets however if our sales recovers to historical norms we should perform better than the prior year.
The regional and product specific areas of weakness further confirms the importance of our 2.5 year $87 million sales growth investment program that is in the final stages of completion with 8 facilities coming online in the second half of 2015.
We remain firmly confident that the cost out and sales growth initiatives we have discussed will complement and offset legacy market performance and reposition us for future growth and we’re already underway with additional sales growth programs to continue our efforts.
Lastly as we transition to free cash flow positive in the second half of 2015 we will gradually begin our debt reduction initiatives.
Furthermore as we begin to pare back our sales growth capital expenditures this will translate into stronger free cash flow generation and will be aided by earnings growth from the full impact of our multi-year multi-pronged investment program.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Katja Jancic from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Katja.
Cliff can you provide more clarity as to your expectations regarding free cash flow and capital expenditures in the second half of the year? Yes as we said before our free cash flow will turn positive in the second half of the year.
We expect it to offset the reduction in the first half and we will also begin to pay down the debt beginning in the second half of 2015.
In the – I think in the first quarter you guided for a free cash flow of $9 million what is the expectation now? The expectation is that it would be more flat.
The issue here is in the second half we are going to do better because the Capex spending that we had was really front-end loaded in 2015.
That spending was related primarily to – a lot of that was related to Kunshan and the Corlu Turkey project.
Okay you are exposed to the Chinese market do you see any headwinds there? Our sales are growing in Asia Europe and South America.
Our only sales decline or sales miss is versus expectations here in North America and in China we have traditionally been capacity limited Asia region we are still doing well there.
Our main plant in Geelong Australia is sold out for the full year and our Kunshan plant which is coming online is also sold out for its initial order log.
So Asia is looking fine for us.
We don’t have a big market share so that might be part of that.
Others have bigger market shares and so they might have a different story but for us we have a very focused story.
We have the number one market share in tissue.
We are very focused on that and it is a very healthy part of the market.
So our Asia story is still doing quite good.
And – so free cash flow for the year Katja is going to follow EBITDA basically what Cliff said is our spending plan is on track full-year estimates are on track our projects are on track and our free cash flow is going to follow our EBITDA a little bit.
And if the second half is like the first half our results are going to be similar to last year.
If we get some recovery back to traditional norms in the second half we will still make our guidance and we will be better than last year.
So we just started to be conservative here in the short-term because there is short-term weakness in the graphical grade especially North America.
We saw that our public comparable company said exactly the same thing.
And so we are being consistent with that outlook.
So free cash flow is going to follow EBITDA a little bit but Cliff is right the second half can be strong free cash flow generation versus the first half.
Okay that is all from me.
Thank you.
Thank you Katja.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Melissa Tan from RW Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow up to the prior caller regarding to the free cash flow by my calculations if you are assuming similar EBITDA to last year I’m not really coming up with any free cash flow that you are able to pay down any debt this year unless your expectations for restructuring and taxes cash taxes has changed has been updated are you able to provide updated numbers for restructuring and taxes for this year? Thank you.
A couple of parts there.
One your first comment is right Melissa.
We consumed cash in the first half of this year due to the timing of our capital spending and the completion of the China plant mainly which has been the biggest user of our cash outflow for two years.
And that plant is online now and the only remaining spending is a 2% hold back on key machines that have a performance requirement.
But by and large we paid for the machinery now and so we consumed cash in the first half and we are going to generate cash in the second half to finish kind of flat which is what your comment is.
If it is better than flat it will because sales recovered in the legacy market somewhat to their prior norms that the graphical grade closures in the first half of this year were over two times what they had been running.
Albany suffered the same thing as us in that regard if you read their results.
So the legacy markets were quite fast and if there is no recovery in those markets we don’t see positive free cash flow.
Right now our expectation is to be flat to prior year which means in the second half we will have strong free cash flow generation to pay down the timing of the Capex in the first half.
On the taxes question Cliff can you take that one? Sure.
Our cash taxes were a little heavier in the first half.
We expect the full year cash tax rate to be around 30% which is consistent with what we have been running prior to this last six months.
Thank you and okay and the next question relates to given that the – you do expect the second half to be better but I guess giving your prepared remarks you were seeing a weakening euro and the markets in general are softening I mean what makes you confident that you are able to offset the softening market with some of these new production that is coming online? Our guidance right now explicit into it is that we don’t expect sales recovery.
The only thing that we expect the second half to benefit from is the cost reductions that we have already done like the closure of the Warwick plant which is quite significant and other actions like that.
On recovery of free cash flow that is primarily tied into the timing of our capital spending which was front end loaded.
It will not happen in the second half.
So we don’t expect to pick up in our legacy markets in the second half.
What we do expect is contribution from our offsetting programs and we already have an indication that that will happen due to our initial bookings we have had in both Turkey and Kunshan and our new plant.
So we expect to more than offset softness in those markets.
We don’t expect the legacy markets to come back in the second half.
That is our outlook.
We could be wrong.
And if they do [Indiscernible] if they do come back we will hit our guidance as we previously thought but we need to be conservative right now because in the short term the markets have been quite tough although our sales did increase in the second half and the second quarter like we thought they would they did not increase as much as we expected.
And so we are flattening out our expectations a little bit here in the short term.
Sure and I think Cliff you mentioned EBITDA similar to 2014 this was not in the press release but you added in on the constant currency basis so if we’re just assuming including currency which means that EBITDA could actually be lower than 2014 is that a reasonable assumption? It is going to be around there with or without currency.
Currency of our last guidance is negative but it is negative of about $1.5 million.
So it is in the same ballpark.
We have got some offsetting actions that we feel like we can take.
So we are being a little bit general about that but we expect to come in closer to prior year.
Thank you and just the last question regarding your sales growth investment programs you are citing $87 million for the next 2.5 years can you give a breakdown for the different projects.
I think in the press release you just gave breakdown for the costs but not the sales expectations? Okay the spending – the spending the investment required on those projects those 10 projects was $87 million.
That is how much money we spent on new machines building expansions.
It has been in the preceding 2.5 years we spent that money.
And we have culminated the majority of the spending in the first half of this year.
So that is the amount of money we have spent to put in sales brokerage [positioning] programs.
The benefit that occurred on that spending is over $25 million of incremental EBITDA.
That is the return.
So if you look at the IRR of the projects there is a spend and there is an EBITDA benefit – a free cash flow benefit of it.
With regard to individual projects in their size we have not released that data and you don’t really want to get into that level of knowledge.
There is competitive reasons for that mainly so we really don’t want to give out competitive data.
Cliff did you have anything to add on that? Yes the press release does include the investment the investment programs by location and projects.
So you can see that.
For example 48 million of the 87 is Kunshan so we lay out the general numbers but the Harold’s point we don’t get into lot of the details.
The benefit we write-off the spending.
And the benefit is not laid out by project which – but overall the IRRs are running around low 30% range.
Okay thanks.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Ritzer from Pressprich your line is open please go ahead.
Alright good morning guys.
Could you give us a little more detail about your 2016 CapEx plans on a maintenance basis plus what you have left on restructuring and growth spend? Well we haven’t given any 2016 guidance yet but I can tell you that number one we’re committed to fixing the company and that company if you spin back a few years we really very stuck in terms of we didn’t have any weightier grow and was new markets and new areas that were doing well we were kind of tracking.
So we did spend money the board decided to fix that problem and it’s fixed when it’s fixed though going sideways like we are right now that’s not the program.
If we get any recovery in the markets these legacy markets versus what’s happening right now that will be one thing.
But if we don’t we’re going to keep our you put on the gas here because our number one goal at the top of the pyramid is have a growing company and we can do that when the globals are on market and their segments are growing.
With regards to maintenance CapEx that’s a good question Adam it is going down somewhat because we’ve been closing plans.
We’ve closed [indiscernible] and we’re underway although we haven’t announced that we’re closing two more.
So we have a way to keep our gross margins and EBITDA is growing up for the next four quarters just on cost on flat sales.
So maintenance is coming down as we retire machines.
Keeping the best ones and we’re discarding the others.
So we do have an expectation that maintenance will come down.
On new project side of it we’re going to wait till we get closer to the end of the year and recalibrate.
If we’re doing okay I think we might toggle to balance between sales growth and debt pay down if we’re not doing okay the board is firmly committed to fixing the problem first and that’s what we do.
Sitting here today I’m more positive on that I see we’ve a lot of positive indicators internally as well with orders and backlog and what not.
But I don’t really want to get specific yet out on 2016 that we had our five year plan and our five year expectations we’re still very confident of what we’re doing we’re confident in our long term plan right now.
We’re not – we’ve bad quarter our sales increased less than we thought our EBITDA increased less than we thought.
We are still headed forward here and pretty much all of our bad news is about America.
And North American markets [indiscernible] and with the outlook for the dollar and euro to go in parity it's not getting any better and so our outlook there is that there is going to be stress in the North American market until this plays out.
Okay.
So let me ask you as Albany on their call you said “there were taking it back by the drop in the newsprint side of the business.” What gives you guys confidence that that business will bounce back a little bit instead of a keep declining more steeply than the growth areas of the world are growing to kind of keep revenues flat have you guys had suggested in the past? Yes that's our guidance.
Our guidance is that there will be no recovery.
I mean that's why we have adjusted in our expectations for their we expect North America to be really tough all year and I am not exactly sure what Albany’s guidance is maybe you talked to those guys Adam I don't know.
But we expect no change in North American business conditions and it is factual it's not subjective.
So if you look at you can get this data you look at the profitability of our customers that make these graphical grades they are low number.
If you look at the operating rates of the machines that make these it's not a good number.
If you look at the amount of machines that are closed and have not affected operating rates and you can do simple math on how many machines you think need to be taken out and if you look at the net export statistics on U.S.
based graphical grade producers there is still net exports but it's been coming down hard and it could go to zero and it could flip it could go to net import on a graphical grades of paper.
So we don't expect any relief in the second half on the graphical grades in the United States not and that's why we are being conservative with our guidance right now.
Okay I understand.
Yes go ahead.
So I mean so you guys are talking about a $25 million increase in EBITDA from the 87 million spending in projects when would you expect to see a full year of that type of EBITDA run rate? That's a good question.
On balance we have assumed two and half to three years fill rates to get to the craft utilization that we wanted in our projects without disrupting the markets.
So it could barrel in and do damage but that's not really the way we wanted to do it.
Bill Butterfield and his folks or he is in the front of the pack here because fundamentally we need to have a product that will make the customer switch to us and as we significantly know what they’re using and so we are trying to win these things position by position at our price.
And it's been going well and so I would say full run rate is two and half years from now kind of a time Adam.
Okay so that would be like 2018 and that EBITDA would be on top of let’s say your guidance this year of roughly 115 so we are looking at 115 growing to 140 assuming revenues are kind of flattish than the rest of the market is okay but not great? Yes you are right.
Your last point is right Adam the real poker here is what's happening in the legacy markets because they’ve been kind of steadily declining for a long period of time almost 20 years I think newspaper circulation piece in the United States in 1960 something like that.
So this steady decline and the decline this year was not steady and it was commingled with our very very very strong dollar.
So that's why we are very nervous on adding numbers like that because it assumes a steady legacy baseline and it hasn't been steady.
It's been declining Cliff do you want to make another comment there? Yes.
I think the $25 million of EBITDA is not fully incremental.
It's really going to offset some of the continuing issues we’re [indiscernible] continue in the future we don't expect it to be as heavy beyond 2015 as we had pretty bad year this year as far as no closures but we do expect that we will continue and the efforts we are taking are going to offset that and hopefully add something more to the top-line but it's not fully incremental.
And we intend to give an annual outlook on that by looking back what those legacy markets are doing and reading the third-party projection.
So what happened this year to us and I am sure Albany looked at the third parties that the third-parties that gave projections on the market and they were battling this battling this to North America.
Okay.
And my last question I had I am sorry to ask so many questions.
You guys got a take-over offer from American securities so call it a few months ago I guess you didn't share that with your shareholders but I am wondering if maybe you could share that with us now and discuss with us why you kind of rejected that out of hand and what went on in your thinking about that? Yes that's a fair question Adam.
Yes you saw the 8-K and its self explanatory and obviously I guess to surmise that we did review that properly as a board of directors and decided that the value offered was to me what we thought the company was worth.
So you can kind of read between the lines here and we were – we are not for sale.
We are obviously a public company and someone can come after like any public company but their offer was deemed to be inadequate and therefore they’ve released what they did.
They were required to do.
And so they follow the rules and we did too.
So we are just doing our tenure.
Okay.
But I am saying could you share with us what you thought was inadequate was it something in line where it was trading was it something with to and front of it I mean what do you think is inadequate at this point in time? That we do have those numbers but that definitely is private or maybe you probably know that.
We want to make sure all the shareholders on the phone here have a big pay-day if that ever happened and you can just guess it wasn't big enough for you guys to be happy.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I will get back in the line.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Adam.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anthony Young from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question.
Just on the Quebec closure I think that slide 8 you guys gave us great given some breakdown on margins and so forth I mean on that Quebec facility you probably guys disclosed specifically what the margins were I mean was there any sort of EBITDA contribution or was it half of what the broader business was or how come you sort of give out where margins may go after the closure of this facility? Okay.
The Warwick plant has made presence for a long long time.
And we track our total cost per unit bearable cost per unit fixed cost per unit in a lot of different ways.
And that plant was almost twice the cost per unit as our two low cost plants and the prices are roughly the same.
We can't charge higher because it's made in Warwick Quebec for instance.
So it was just a profit compression issue.
We moved the loads to our lower cost plants and the machines have been orphaned.
They are outstanding machines and we intend to keep them and we have internal plans to move them to our low cost plants and increase percentage of our production at low cost so that we can win more battles or survive any legacy market declines and offset it.
With regards to EBITDA contribution there has been none so far.
We had a closure on the end of the second quarter.
It was a full stop closure.
We covered every single person.
We moved every single order and right now we just turned the lights off and we have all of our equipment there only we moved the production loads.
So we immediately saved all that money.
So we save the money of the team that were there salaried people and then we net – we are net saving on variable labor hours and cost per labor hour because it was high cost per unit on top of it.
So a nice big win for us and then we have a further use of the machines to move them and give us another opportunity stepping some of the opportunity that further reduce our cost by redeploying them to low cost plant.
Okay.
And then I have to assume that the new China facility sort of will be a low cost facility? It’s definitely our low cost facility and they are in production now.
They are making their first pieces.
They have gone through their machine commissioning and knock on work so far so good and they are booked up for quite a ways right now.
And we are off for running as we staff up and go to continuous operation so the plant is in full ramp-up right now and it's already delivering saleable goods as is Turkey.
Okay.
I am not sure if you guys benchmark your facility this way but I mean with that China plant be in the first quartile like the global cost curve or the best plant in the world or how should we think about that facility as far as margins will go? It's a good question.
We definitely benchmark the facility a lot before we started the project.
We benchmark an equivalent to the best two plants in the world so we believe we will be tied for first two other plants that are also in China for the lowest cost thresholds in the world.
Okay.
And then just final thing on the bondage you guys have that are callable now are they still plans to refinance those? Well there are two things.
First of all I can't give you a strong argument to not give that and number two is definitely we have a very strong Bangkok market and the bond markets been kind of weird over the last month if you follow that even if you take oil and the energy out the high yield market trade and wide but for sure we want to refinance our debt sometime within the next year.
And we are always monitoring the market conditions and we are right now as well.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions guys.
Thank you Anthony.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anne Warehime from Invesco your line is open.
Please go ahead.
My questions have been asked.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Sir your line is open if you have your phone on mute you can un-mute your phone please.
Our next question comes from John Koerber from Bennett Management.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good day.
On slide 5 and 7 you do address the non-paper segments of your business.
You say fiber cement nonwoven you call it satisfactory and then on page 7 you said that 25% of your future growth or new products for future growth is in non-paper.
Could you guys talk a little more of what you mean by satisfactory and am I to assume that the product is 25% is the growth you’re anticipating going to be 25% of all future growth? Okay.
Starting with page 7 that's really a breakdown of our new product agenda and 25% of our products and you are correct have been in nonwoven and fiber cement.
The reason for the disproportionately high amount of product development in that area is because our products needed to be significantly better in order to win technical run-offs and there were markets that we are not – neither market are we a leader in them.
We have a competitor who is the leader in both of them and we needed our products to be better and that led us to assign people it led to us to hire some people led us to join the nonwovens’ institute in North Carolina state and do a lot of actions here to get behind our fiber cement and nonwovens product line.
We have done that we have issued those products but they are not going to be 25% of our sales.
They were 25% of our product development activity because we had a need for a lot of emphasis there but non-paper sales at our company right now are less than 20%.
We are trying to grow them with these initiatives and we are also growing our paper business by getting out of non-graphical but by getting out of graphical grades and into non-graphical grades so on satisfactory which your question was on page 5 kind of what the legend we have looked at what our customers say about their markets and we have looked at what the competition has to say about the markets.
And satisfactory on fiber cement nonwoven means that these markets are both on track with the expectations given at the beginning of the year so they are both growing 3% to 5%.
We are not impeded by sales growth in fiber cement or nonwoven due to the core market.
We are only impeded by our product performance and our activity.
So we have a good market environment in both of them.
Both of them have satisfactory market conditions for us to perform.
In the case on page 5 you see the counter example on newsprint and printing and writing both of those markets have weak conditions for us to be able to perform according to our forecast in our previous guidance.
So it rolls by here it's the first time we’ve had this significant type of weakness under way and that weakness globally has dragged down the OEM new machines business too which is the big one for us especially on the rolls side.
As a follow-up would it be fair to say that because you said you have put in the time to develop better product in non-paper that you have a better product now than your number one competitor will you be taking the magic words take share here do you see that or not? Well there is two – both fiber cement nonwoven both of these actually are market they are putting new machines in.
So these are growing markets and fiber cement market mainly not in North America 80% of that market is outside of North America nonwovens business is global.
So they are little bit different.
Bill Butterfield are you still able to speak? I am.
Can you make the comment Bill regarding how our products line up in those two segments versus the market leaders? Yes I think that we have made some great strides in both of those market segments.
The non-paper for fiber cement we have a new product there and I referenced that in my remarks earlier about having some new fiber technology yarn technology that is yielding some excellent field trial results.
So we feel we are really strong in that product line and that we are not second to anybody with that.
In nonwovens we are still making gains in our product technology in nonwovens.
We feel like we still need to continue to pursue further development of course in those products.
There were eight non-paper new products developed and launched in the first half of 2015 and that split was primarily between – it's about 50:50 split between fiber cement nonwovens and roll covers.
So we think we are the strongest in roll covers.
We have one of the strongest products in fiber cement and I think to be fair we can continue to grow our product line in nonwovens.
Or said differently John in both of those markets we have a long way to go financially.
I think Bill has fixed our technical issues which caused us to be in second place and now we are actively gaining positions in both of those and we do have strong intentions to grow those business financially speaking in terms of more sales more EBITDA so we are not caught up we are not where we want to be in either one of those products in terms of how much business has been to our baseline.
So we are still chasing both of those.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you very much everyone for your proper questions your insightful questions and we are thankful that you’re following the company and supporting it.
We are very confident here and what our actions are to turn the company around and make it better.
The quarter was a little better than we thought.
We thought the quarter was going to be a little better than Q1 and it was but it wasn't as good as we expected.
So being conservative so I thought honestly anyone here with the full year expectation we still have an internal plan to do what we said in the first place but we think it's unrealistic right now to guide in that manner given how much softness we have had in the short term.
So sorry for the bitter bad news there but that's how the short-term looks.
Long-term looks strong as it has we’ve got everything wrapping up now.
We are quite excited about our new plant there coming online.
We have opening ceremonies in October for both of the brand new plants and we have opening ceremonies for the other eight plant expansions in the second half of this year.
So we are on the verge of a startup of bunch of broad set of new ways for our company to have better top-line performance.
And thank you very much for calling into today and with that I will end the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.