Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
At the request of Xerium Technologies this conference call on Thursday November 5 2015 will be webcast and recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference call over to EVP and Chief Financial Officer Cliff Pietrafitta.
Your line is open.
Thank you operator good morning everyone.
I would like remind everyone to please refer to the press release regarding our financial results for Q3 2015 filed on November 4 2015 and a corresponding 10-Q with particular reference to the safe harbor notice contained in the text of the press release about our forward-looking statements and the use of certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and the associated reconciliation of such measures to GAAP under Regulation-G.
Those same statements also apply to our remarks on this conference call.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in the release and in our SEC filings.
For a full discussion please refer to our earnings release as well as our SEC filings including our latest 10-K.
Now I will turn the call over to Harold Bevis our President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide opening remarks.
Harold? Thank you Cliff good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s third quarter 2015 results.
And at this time I would like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights for the quarter.
On slide 3 we’ve summarized results.
Third quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA improved to $28.3 million from the second quarter and was 24% of sales marking the sixth quarter in a row of year-over-year improvements in EBITDA rates.
Net sales were about $118 million a decrease of 7% in constant currency; I’ll get back and talk about that in a little while together.
The commodity break decline clearly outlay the fairly positive assets for the paper markets and non-paper markets.
Gross margins excluding restructuring charges were 41% of net sales in Q3 marking the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
Q3 2015 adjusted EPS was $0.30 a share a decrease of 30% from $0.43 a share in Q3 of 2014 this was primarily driven by lower sales volumes.
Partially offset by favorable currency and cost-saving initiatives.
In the third quarter the strong US dollar had a very negative impact on our sales and free cash flow and our net debt ratio came in at 4.3 times.
We expect this ratio to improve as we complete our spending on sales growth projects.
What I would also like to point out that we completed the refinancing of our ABL facility.
This new facility provides more flexible terms at a lower cost of borrowing and lastly two plant six plant expansion have come online this year creating new sales growth avenues with accretive financial returns.
On slide 4 this represents our scorecard of our performance in the quarter.
Third quarter was a good quarter except for some weaknesses in the market that I’m going to talk about.
Our sales repositioning cost repositioning working capital efficiency programs are all on track.
However we still are experiencing sales declines primarily in the commodity grade wafer production and we expect the current market condition to persist in the 2016.
This market condition reconfirm the need and importance of sales repositioning programs that will move equipment people and know-how into growing markets.
We are well on our way with ten programs that will more than offset this commodity grade declines.
In addition we'll continue to reposition our cost structure to increase profit rates and we’re well on our way to installing the 2016 programs already which will have cost savings level equal to those in 2015.
Now I’m going to turn the call over to Dave Pretty our President of Europe and North America to discuss the industry outlook.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Moving to slide 5 which represents the global production forecast for the markets we serve.
As published and sourced from Nomura we know that the 2016 market outlook is expected to be similar to 2015 market condition.
In addition as published and sourced from Nomura regional year-to-date August production data versus the prior year period continues to highlight positive trends in China Asia up 0.7% while North America impacted by news printing writing is down 1% Europe down slightly 0.2% and South America is down slightly up 0.4%.
The non-paper segments we serve primarily in the fiber cement and industrial non-woven segments still remain in stable condition.
As Harold noted in response to the declining market conditions we are aggressively repositioning our assets our people and know-how into the growing market segments and geographies not only in North America but globally.
Our strategy has been to enter new markets that present greatest revenue growth opportunities redeploy our assets to new and higher geographic regions and modest products aimed at growing segments of the market.
I would like to conclude noting that we are track on all of these initiatives especially in North America and now I'll turn it over back to Harold.
Thanks Dave.
On slide 6 you can see our repositioning program which is a permanent sales restate for the company and focus on the diversification away from declining commodity grades of paper.
It involves two new plants eight plant expansion in seven geographies and 39 new products.
These efforts will have the capability of generating incremental $50 million in sales and $25 million in adjusted EBITDA for run rates.
In the third quarter of 2015 we’ll continue to make strides in these programs and commission four machine clothing plant integration and the start-up of our two new plants in Kunshan and Çorlu.
Our global renovation program involved facilities in Kentville Canada; Gloggnitz Austria; Asahi Japan; Piracicaba Brazil they will enable to serve customers and new segments more efficiently with better lead-times and global availability of our innovative and rapidly growing portfolio technology.
This initiative will also better position Xerium to aggressively pursue growth in popular products growing grades and growing regions that are outpacing global industry growth trends.
Additionally we commissioned the Kunshan plant which is a press felt plant in the third quarter of 2015 after two years of construction.
That strategic located facility is in the centre of the largest papermaking region in the world which is expected to represent nearly one half of global paper-base product productions by the end of the decade.
It's already gaining traction with customers that Xerium previously served from Europe four brand new customers.
Lastly the Çorlu Turkey plant is ramping up production in Q4 of 2015 as well.
This new plant location also took over two years ago to equip and commission.
The facilities contain start-of-the-art roll and serviced equipment from Europe and Xerium has transferred all of its set fractions and patented technologies to the region.
For the first time ever machine owners in the region will receive locally provided locally optimized state-of-the-art technology and state-of-the-art polyurethane technology.
While we've been active in our renovation and expanding geographically we've also been making different and necessary decisions such as our recently announced closure of our Middletown Virginia facility.
This is the second closure announcement in the last four months each for different reasons but ultimately we continue our goal of maximizing our spending and investing.
Our existing North American network of roll manufacturing and services facility is in healthier regional markets and we will observe Middletown customer orders.
This will enable these facilities operate to higher utilization rates and benefit from the cost structures going forward.
Similar to the work machine clothing assets the equipment will primarily be relocated outside of North America to other geographies that are growing and in need of additional equipment and in the need of additional services.
In summary we have reached some core milestones and we'll remain confident in our plans to achieve consistent sales going forward that will more than offset commodity rate declines.
Now I will turn the call over to Bill Butterfield our EVP and Chief Technology Officer for his comments on renovation activities.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
I'm happy to bring you up to speed on our new products and intellectual property.
I mentioned during our last quarterly call our newest smart roll technology for suction rolls which has proven to provide tissue paper makers with knowledge never before available to them.
They are now able to determine what the operation of profile looks like on the Yankee driers used in tissue manufacturing.
In real-time under full operating conditions which prior to this innovation was not possible.
We believe that every tissue maker in the world with pressure roll covers both suction and non-suction will be excited about this new technology.
Referring to slide – to the left-hand side of slide number 7.
I mentioned during our last call that we were introducing a new farming fabric material which has reduction in energy and at the same time an increase in wear resistance.
Our first few child of this new and exciting product technology breakthrough have demonstrated this to be possible with savings in both energy and increased likely result.
I will provide some update on various patterns which is on the right hand side of page 7 this aggressive development activity led to a growing patent portfolio to protect our RMV investment in our future base business.
We currently hold over 400 patents with 48 being issued in 2015 so far and 96 patents are pending.
This accelerated intellectual property investment production is a direct result of our increased new product development aimed at new growth markets.
With both our new products for future growth are widely expanded in intellectual property portfolio Xerium is having significant success with holding new positions and year-to-date this is well over 1 000 new position gains for future sales.
Now I will turn the call over to Cliff Pietrafitta our Chief financial Officer for his comments on the quarter and outlook.
Thanks Harold.
On slide 8 year over year adjusted EBITDA rates increased for the sixth quarter in a row to 24% of sales driven by a strong adjusted EBITDA rate of 31% in our mission clothing business.
We anticipated this solid forward momentum will continue into 2016 with our sales repositioning programs coming online for expanded patent technology and our new customer wins.
Slide 9 shows that our Q3 2015 basic adjusted EPS of $0.30 per share declined from $0.43 per share in Q3 of 2014 largely as a result of sales declines in the commodity grades which outweighed improvements in other paper markets.
However our repositioning strategy is addressing these declines and we should be less susceptible for this as our transformation continues to be executed in the strategy.
I'll now turn to the final slide.
In 2016 sales are expected to start trending up as our 10 sales programs come online.
These programs will more than offset the commodity grade declines we have discussed throughout this call.
Our main short-term exposure areas are the machine clothing and the commodity grade declines which were stronger than the improvements in other paper markets in Q3 2015 and were evidenced by mill closures that were served by Xerium.
Roll sales will be flat for the entire year of 2015 but will grow in 2016 with our new products new locations and new services coming online.
Q4 adjusted EBITDA is expected to be flat to Q3 and full-year adjusted EBITDA is expected to be approximately 110 million as the commodity grade declines continue throughout the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
However our equity value creation plan is on track firmly resetting sales from the commodity grades.
Our focus areas are rolls mechanical services pulp nonwovens fiber cement dryers packaging tissue and lastly high growth markets.
2015 free cash flow generation is on track to improve and is accelerating.
In summary we remain confident on our repositioning programs and our strong equity value creation.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we are now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic with Sidoti &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Cliff you mentioned you expect sales to start trading up in 2016 what percentage are you looking at? It's kind of in dollars is the way we looked at it so far.
Our basic game plan is to have our new initiatives more than offset the declines and we haven't finished our plan for 2016.
We are just going through the initial phases of that but instead of being flat to down for 15 it will be flat to up from now on because these programs have come online they’re all contributing now.
There are two projects the expansion of Neenah Wisconsin plant and the Griffin Georgia plant are coming online this month and they are already full and we all have initial orders and loads for this.
So the contribution of those will more than offset the declines in ’16 if the declines in 16 are like that in ‘15.
We're honing in on the final math now.
Percentages we’re not at that point yet Katja.
We will give it out more when we have but we’re not done with our ’16 plans yet.
Harold can you talk a little bit more about the Chinese plant how's that ramping up how much could it add in the next couple of years? Yes.
That plant has been designed to generate 7 million to 8 million of EBITDA.
It’s exceeding expectations right now.
The largest customer in the plant is a brand-new customer previously unattainable and unserved by our company.
The company has been served locally by our competition.
They are one of the top paper board tissue producers in China and we are proud to say that that project is doing what we wanted to do which is the operational unlocking of business for us.
We had the technology we had the knowhow but we couldn't get to there on price value and that plant is really doing well for us.
Thank you for asking and the same Turkey plant is exceeding expectations quite a lot.
We have a lot of rolls in the plant already and so both of those are really going to be powerful generators of the EBITDA for us and the Turkey facility should give us a few million of EBITDA between the two overtime and they are on track.
Now you have been very successful at expanding your margins and you mentioned that we can continue seeing this how much more can you expand? Well the cost outs next year are going to be CapEx light.
We are really going after labor productivity and we had a lot of opportunities to do that.
With our closures we've been able to put machines online to avoid overtime.
The cost out target for next year is approximately the same as this year.
So we've been doing around $20 million a year and we don't see -- we see already that we can keep doing with that keep generating that type of cost out with less spending.
Okay that's all for me.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa Tan with R.W.
Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just to follow up on the last caller’s question regarding giver sales expectation for 2016 the mention about flat to up is that excluding currencies or inclusive of potential currency headwinds? That excludes currency and if you look at our profile versus which them which they were very public with their geographic exposure to declining publication grades our exposure is quite different.
The strong dollar it impacts our company more than.
We have higher market shares for at risk grades in the United States.
They have a higher percentages in euro.
The strong dollar really had an impact on us this year and this quarter.
If the euro would have been strong versus the dollar you would have had flipped outcomes between us.
But that isn't what happened.
So the strong dollar where we have our strong shares was a direct hit to us in the short-term it’s short-term only because we already expected that in both markets for that volume to go away but the impact was quite severe this year and this quarter.
If you look at how both of us were doing for the first six months both of us were down about 2%.
In this quarter year to date they are still down we’re down a little bit more.
There was 15 closures in the United States in the third quarter and there were direct hits to us.
So when we talk we definitely talk in constant currency because currency matters a lot to us given our historical amount of business we had in US dollars flat to us is constant currency with fundamental you’re going to be offsetting those commodity grade closures with our sales initiatives that are well underway and already on track with what we want them to do.
Okay thank you.
So I guess one way to understand why the third quarter was weaker than expected I guess there were more closures than management expected and usually that's leaning towards the fourth quarter but this year was in the third quarter you mentioned ‘15 plants? You’re correct Melissa.
The strong dollar impacts on the US paper trade was really severe for those companies who were involved in it the industry was being very low-cost imports.
It was definitely a buyer's market for low-cost paper and [indiscernible].
These companies that buy these amount products these are buyers’ market because they had the traditional suppliers in region and then they had very low-cost imports coming in.
So we track this precisely to the machine and there is carry in to the quarter from the prior three quarters and there is new fresh closures in the quarter and the fresh closures in the quarter were quite significant in the US and were direct hits to us specifically just looked at who was on what machine and it was quite mild in Europe.
We had almost no closures there and like I said if we would have had different currency environment this might have been quite different but we view this business was going to go away that's why we initiated the sales repositioning project.
We are kind of long-term surprised it was just a short-term project for us.
So it just confirms what we are doing and rolls for us were up almost 10% in services in North America.
Definitely machine clothing stands for us and we don't see the conditions changing if you look at currency outlook the dollar and euro which is a biggie it’s not going to improve if you're talking about the US dollars it’s going to remain favorable if you are a European exporter.
So we expect the pressure to continue and if you look at our customers Q3 announcements and [indiscernible] they see this dynamic holding also in terms of being very susceptible to low cost imports.
Right.
So I guess with all these backdrops what does the management think now in terms of the EBITDA growth potential going forward I guess there has been a step back in 2015 do you expect growth in 2016 in spite of everything? Yes we expect very healthy growth going into next year and it's really coupling of our - another strong year cost out as well as the contribution of our sales projects that are coming online.
So it is a short-term dynamic for us but definitely we are looking at strong improvement in ‘16 versus ‘15 on EBITDA.
De-leveraging we are also cash flow – returned to cash flow positive now that will continue to accelerate.
So the basic plan is still on track and solid and ramping up now and so it will – ‘16 will be quite different than Q3 of this year and so we remain very confident on what we are doing and we specifically see that customers is earning overall services from us as they go through this struggle in this environment they are outsourcing more and more to us and it is really – we saw that happening it’s where we expand in to our major rolls facilities in the US and absolutely we've got in front of that so we're the recipient of their outsourcing is well.
So rolls business is doing fine.
It's not declining it's only going to be expanding and our smart roll technology is really ramping up fast especially this year.
Okay good.
And I think last time you mentioned you expect to pay down 2 million of term loan this year is that still a goal or? Yes.
We still have a goal in the fourth quarter.
We are required going to be cash flow positive and we have a goal to pay down debt.
The amount is going to depend on the sales rate that happen here in the quarter and we've been not seeing the stress coming out.
So we’re being careful to not get precise guidance but in terms of our spending it's absolutely coming down we are finishing projects and we are not initiating new ones.
So we know our cash flow we know our income and cash flow we now we’re controlling the amount of out flowing cash flow.
It’s not if it’s when.
Is it in December is it in January February not sure.
It’s like we are right on it.
Okay thank you.
And just last question and then I will get off.
It’s regarding China.
I guess with everything that’s going on over there your management is still seeing growth in your markets.
You haven’t seen any pullback in orders or seen that trend going into 2016? No in terms of the economic policies in China with [indiscernible] new normal it’s what it’s called locally on the ground I just got back from a three-week trip and I was in China last week and the focus of the economy to turn towards personal consumption benefits our industry and primarily serves consumables disposables and so that’s not good for our industry.
In terms of the microcosm know of paper tissue board manufacturing the issue in China really is supply and demand.
There is – the demand is still growing 4% 5% 6%.
The supply though there is too much supply there is too many machines in the country.
And so there is some mandated government closures of some of the straw based pulp machines and high energy usage machines but there is still too many good machines as well and that in order to stay away from any trouble on that one is picking your customers wisely.
We’ve done that.
The people we are focused on there that plant was specifically engineered for high end board and tissue.
And we have had a year-and-a-half of getting our approval and we started out the plant as planned with a big big board customer that had previously been served by our competition and so for us what we are doing is very small compared to the market very focused and surgical entry into that market and we’ve come in at the high end with our best technology and we’ve pre-sold it and with all the tracks but with regard to our specific projects we are doing fine.
Okay thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
You are welcome Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer with Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Hey guys just want to – had a couple of follow-up questions if you don’t mind.
What’s your all-in cost on the China plant and the Turkey plant? Could you just tell us what that is? The cost of the China plant Adam we partnered with the Beijing government and they did a build-to-suit building for us we have to buy it in year 10 ten and a half years after the signing.
So the building the government kind of funded that for us it’s around 8 million and the total cash out for us Cliff is? It’s around 40.
About $40 million Adam And startup and working capital all the investment involved in getting the plant.
Yeah the CapEx part of it was? 32.
32.
Got it.
And what about Turkey how much did that cost you guys? Turkey was cheap.
Turkey we again got the partner build a dedicated purpose building for us and we moved equipment in from Germany that we already owned and it was about $3.5 million.
Okay got it.
The $110 million of EBITDA guidance is that expected to – could you keep that flat or does that have a negative trend and you are going to try and offset that with the additional $25 million of new business you are talking about? In terms of Q4? No I am just saying overall.
Your EBITDA year-over-year was flat $110 million to $110 million.
I know you are spending money cash restructuring to kind of keep that flat but how long could that go.
I mean is the $110 million basically your base run rate? I am just trying to figure out what that base run rate really is without the new business.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s good question.
So our outlook right now for ’16 is that the very severe environment of ’15 holds and so in terms of the decline of the commodity grade segments we are assuming that if it stays at this terrible rate and holds.
So the quarter that we are in is the base case with regard to the base business and we look at to it.
And that’s why we said Q4 we think is going to be flat to this quarter because we believe that the negative the carry-in we have into the quarter from fire closures and then new closures that are yet unannounced in the quarter will keep us at the same type of rate and therefore offset the sales growth from our projects.
Our cost-out program is quarterized and we’ve already taken the advance actions to make the ’16 happen we can see that with a lot of certainty and so those things are going to keep adding.
So we are at the base rate right now.
We haven’t had a lot of contribution for this.
Well literally the plant in China started up just a few weeks ago the same as the plant Turkey.
Okay I got it.
So when do you think this $25 million of EBITDA with the new lines when is the full run rate there.
Well we are going to get a big chunk of it next year.
We’ve in our internal models with the board we’ve committed to three year fills.
It looks like we are in front of that.
We are way in front of that so it’s going to be shorter than three years to honest and next year we are expecting to get a nice contribution from it over half.
Okay so you are thinking we have the $110 million if the $25 million could be all-in by ‘18 kind of we are $135 million of EBITDA 2018 kind of time frame is that kind of what you are saying? That’s exactly right Adam on month-to-month spending [ph].
Right.
So could you give us your outlook now on CapEx for next year? CapEx restructuring cost could you kind of break that down so we could figure out when we start seeing some free cash? Yes I will.
We don’t have firm plans for 2016.
We have an outstanding board of directors and we do have open questions and dialog amongst us but I can definitely bracket the conversation for you.
That would be great.
The biggest use of cash for us definitely has been CapEx and the second has been cash restructuring.
CapEx this year is on track to be around $50 million and cash restructuring is going to be around $13 million so $63 million of cash out the door.
And we are fundamentally aiming to cutting in half and the pace of that there is some puts and takes in the boardroom but we see clear path to doing that.
And so we are aimed at doing that next year Adam.
So we are not – it’s really is going to be step changing because these twin projects that we did were big chunk big uses of our money and we are dramatically curtailing the amount of that activity.
We were doing 10 in parallel literally we are doing 10 in parallel.
Okay so the $50 million how much of that was on these 10 new projects that are going to go away next year? The majority of it and the same with the restructuring.
I am sorry to keep interrupting.
Got ahead.
So the $50 million I mean of the $50 what’s maintenance? Maintenance is around $10 million to $12 million.
Okay so you think you are going to be at maintenance run rates in CapEx for 2016? Now if I could just bracket it for this cost it’s going to be more like $20 million to $30 million in total CapEx.
$20 million to $30 million total CapEx and where do you – is we still going to have another $10 million or so on cash restructuring or we pretty much done with it? We have little bit more to do next year because we are ramping up the projects and we do have one more big plant we are closing which is – Okay so may be $5 million to $10 million of restructuring is that fair to say.
That’s a good bracket yes that’s right Adam.
Okay so we are talking between the two next year $25 million to $40 million versus $63 million this year? That’s right.
Okay got it.
Adam even more than that because we’ve had to assume the lease in China.
That capital lease is how much Cliff? It’s 8.5 million.
It’s 8.5 million and we leased some of the equipment that we put into Neenah and then to Griffin and that was how much? Couple of million dollars.
So in addition to the cash part of this thing Adam we also took on about 10 million of leasing debt in the form of leases and we are not going to do that again either so it’s going to go from about $70 million down to the number you said.
Got it.
And I assume all that is going to be used to pay down debt you guys aren’t going to be looking at any kind of stock buybacks even at these levels right? No we are not going to do stock buyback.
We are definitely looking at doing what we said which is paying down debt.
Okay got it.
Okay I appreciate the color and sorry all the questions I am asking and I will get back in line.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Adam.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Webber with Robotti Advisors.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just kind of a follow-up on the question before the growth CapEx that you talk about next year what’s that really for? We have one more big closure we want to do and if you look at the equipment in Middletown rolls equipment it is an outstanding plant.
They are not being close to the performance whatsoever.
It’s a wonderful plant and they have some of our largest equipment for servicing large rolls or large machines and we are moving that equipment to another country that is in need of a roll plant from us with our fancy roll covers.
And we are going to take that equipment and move it and per GAAP the cost to dismount move install ramp up that equipment is GAAP CapEx and it is a very – these are very big machines and they need special foundations and that is the majority of it.
Secondarily we do have some very fast payback productivity spending.
And then the third point is the Warwick closure that we did in Canada we closed profile of plant in Canada we are going to move that equipment to China.
So it’s basically the spending we need reposition our assets which is our old game plan to avoid buying brand new equipment and move good equipment we already have to a new location.
Okay.
I may have missed but did you talk about life for next year kind of given what you think kind of your prediction if you want to call that working capital requirements? Well I think Adam reckoned it very well the questions we just went through with Adam.
We have not given guidance for next year.
[indiscernible] as best as I can because we do have a protocol that I do respect my Board’s influx when we have open questions amongst us and the questions are always regardless of how fast we would reposition the company not if we do but how fast can we do it.
And we have been on a fast pace.
We have 10 projects in parallel that we have done because we could see the demise of these commodity rates coming at us.
I think we have done plenty and so we’re really going to fill that capacity up get that EBITDA in the house generate that cash flow pay down that debt and these are things that we said in our meetings that we have had externally.
Now what do you do next? What’s the next actual projects how big is it how swift is it.
We haven’t come to a final view but we know it’s going to be significantly less but we are not final with that.
So I don’t really want to give precise guidance but I think Adam reckoned it right.
Internally with our business plan we are staying with our game plan.
We really like what we are doing we see our rolls business growing we see our mechanical services business growing we see our non-commodity grade paper business growing.
As soon as we put our plant in China and ramp it up you nail a brand new huge customer in the region that we’ve been quoting on this is incremental business and profit to our company at very high accretive rates out of that Kunshan plant so exactly what our game plan is and why the customer doing it.
I don’t really want to give any more precise guidance on ’16.
We have our final Board meeting on ’16 in December so I can’t really give more than that has been said Alan.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Young with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just on the newsprint and writing grades how much exposure do you guys still have left there? And is there any difference between machine clothing and rolls as far as [indiscernible] than the other? Good question Anthony.
Thank you.
So I’m sure that you saw the percentage breakdowns that Albany gave in our initiated coverage almost saw that happen.
Our percentages are almost the same.
So our exposure to publication grades however they differ by region.
And that we have a very similar exposure on a percentage basis.
And our exposure is more on the PMC side and rolls.
Because you have got difference – if you look at the kind of the worst part of what’s going on right now in our process plan it’s PMC clothing and North America commodity grade products are operating faster than previous trend lines by a lot by multiples.
And so if you look at our exposure breaking it down for you Albany said they had 20% of their business was in the Americas for publication grade our numbers quite a bit higher than that.
They gave their percentage in Europe about 40% number is quite a bit lower than that.
And we are similar in Asia.
So we are exposed differently based on the currencies that are out there right now.
Did that answer the question? Yes it does.
That’s helpful.
And then as far as we call in the debt goes at 8.87 times I mean is that still part of the plan or? Yes it is.
We did – there is no rush on it we did – we are all watching the markets.
The whole single B issuer market kind of shutdown over the last months or two.
We have step down in our call premiums in June that’s significant.
So we are coming into the period of it’s better to wait and do it for cheaper because as you know refinancing costs are capitalized and that makes your debt go up.
And our stepdown is $5 million so it’s not any significant to us.
So we are monitoring the markets we have off of our debt right now and we are part of our debt in Europe part of our debt in the US we are watching both markets.
But that’s still something that we want to do yes that’s in our plans to do.
Okay.
Thanks for the questions guys.
Thank you Anthony.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Matt Reams with Buckhead Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
How much of the sales decline is related to competitive forces? None really.
We track our positions won and lost.
Our positions lost are primarily due to closures and we are over a 1 000 positions won this year globally well over a 1 000.
So on a market share basis we are gaining market share.
I don’t think we are gaining against Albany if you look at their results but we are gaining against everybody else behind us.
And so the two of us I think are doing well versus non-public reporters because we track us to the machine level position level.
But I don’t – we are losing competitively we are running.
Okay.
Obviously the margins are expanding within the business so I would imagine that soon that the lost sales due to the commodity grades are at much lower margin relative to the company averages? That is the reverse of it.
If you look at if you kick currency out and look at constant currency we are returning a negative price mix and we are really high and find papers that are commodities now for the highest price products in the industry.
They are big pieces they are high-priced and they are going away.
So I would guess Albany’s margins were accretive so did ours and it’s really due to cost down cost containment which they are doing as well with their own program.
But we are suffering negative price mix at this segment off late.
Okay.
I think you mentioned briefly about Project 11 I don’t know if it’s related to the big plant closure that you expect to do next year.
But you said you’re repositioning the rolls in the pulp market you already have customers lined up can you explain a little bit more about the opportunities for that project? Yes you’re right.
Our next project 11 if you will is definitely is focused in on the pulp industry.
And it’s in another geography where there is lot of pulp mills and yes we have been working with the customers for over a year and half.
I personally have traveled to the region we do that stuff fast as we try to get letters of intent and we go – we put our own plant and we also are doing a warehouse on machine clothing and same thing we did in Turkey and so we put an aggressive sales force to call on the machines.
We are calling every part of the machine that we can service.
So said differently if we did not want to build a new plant in new location we probably would not have closed Middletown.
Middletown is a very good plant but the perfect equipment we need for servicing large pulp machines.
So we spent over a year and half with our customers in those regions feeding the market.
And so we’re well along the path with that project.
Okay great.
That’s all the questions I have right now.
Thank you.
Thank you Matt.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back to Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the good questions today.
Thank you for calling in.
And we look forward to reporting our results in the next call.
With that we’ll end the call.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.