Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
At the request of Xerium Technologies this conference call on Tuesday March 15 2016 will be webcast and recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Cliff Pietrafitta.
Thank you Sharon and good morning everyone.
I would like to remind everyone to please refer to the press release regarding our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 filed on March 14 2016 and our corresponding 10-K with particular reference to one the Safe Harbor noticed contained in the text of the press release about our forward-looking statements; and two the use of certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and the associated reconciliation of such measures to GAAP under Regulation G.
Those statements also apply to our remarks on this conference call.
Our actual results may differ materially from this indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in the press release and in our SEC filings.
For a full discussion please refer to our earnings release as well as our SEC filings including our December 31 2015 10-K.
Now I will turn the call over to Harold Bevis our President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide opening remarks.
Harold? Thank you Cliff and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s fourth quarter and full year 2015 and 2016 outlook.
At this time I’d like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for the call and I’d like to begin by reviewing a few key points with you.
Please turn to Slide 3.
We have summarized key highlights regarding our full year 2015 results here.
We improved our operating profile in 2015 versus 2014 despite declining graphical markets.
While sales on a currency adjusted basis declined 4% in the year versus 2014 gross margin rates and adjusted EBITDA rates both improved after giving effect to one-time start-up costs at new facilities and inventory write-offs at closed facilities.
Gross margin improved by 30 basis points to 40.3% in 2015 and adjusted EBITDA rates improved by the same amount 30 basis points to 21.7% of sales in 2015.
So operationally speaking we successfully right-sized the organization while graphical grade sales were disappearing.
However going into 2016 we have increased the dollar size of our cost-out programs.
We anticipate similar decline rates in the at-risk market areas.
I’m happy to report that we completed the majority of our big ticket spending programs in 2015 as significant projects came online at the end of the year.
These included our new facilities in China and Turkey and expansions at our Griffin Georgia rolls plant our Kentville Nova Scotia plant our Gloggnitz Austria plant and our Piracicaba plant.
In addition we expect two other expansions in Neenah Wisconsin and Piracicaba Brazil to go live in the first half of 2016 and yet another major project a new China forming fabric operation to go live in the second half of 2016.
So our repositioning projects are coming online right now.
Turning to Slide 4 we have summarized key highlights regarding the quarter.
We do have lumpy quarter to quarter results and Q4 was not great.
Our financials were below our trim line due to weak graphical sales and a strong U.S.
dollar.
Adjusted EBITDA declined to $21.3 million or 18% of sales primarily as a result of the flow-through effect of the decreased graphical grade sales.
At the same time we maintained our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D spending after adjusting for non-recurring items as we completed these repositioning projects designed to offset these graphical market declines.
Sales were $115 million in the quarter declining 5% on a constant currency basis due primarily to the graphical grade sales declines.
Gross margins were also affected for 38% of sales in the quarter due primarily to graphical grade sales declines and adjusted EBITDA was $21 million as I mentioned or 18% of sales also down primarily due to graphical grade sales declines.
EPS was also dragged down with it for the same reason.
So as you can see we suffered higher than expected business declines at graphical grade paper production and it impacted our financials strongly.
The strong dollar also did not help and it continues to negatively impact our sales and free cash flow and will continue to influence our 2016 results.
Net debt was essentially flat in the quarter versus Q3 at $481 million.
However we did complete the majority of our capital intensive projects in the quarter and for the year with 16 projects in total including two new plants five plant expansions and the completion of nine facility closures.
Five further projects are underway and the company already has the primary equipment on hand and has been paid for.
Go-forward free cash flow will be different than in the past as we have completed the bulk of our repositioning spending.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Pretty our President of Xerium Europe and Xerium North America to discuss our company’s market update.
Thank you.
Dave? Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide 5 which represents the global production forecasts for the markets we serve as published by Numera we continue to see the same trends - GDP grades which represent approximately 75% of the market continue to grow while newsprint printing and writing grades which represent approximately 25% of the market continue to decline.
We see no real changes to those trends for 2016.
Closer to us for Q4 2015 the markets for the products we manufacture contracted approximately 5%.
Our sales for Q4 2015 contracted approximately 5% as did our closest publicly-traded competitor.
As we have highlighted during previous updates 75% of the markets we serve remain healthy.
Our focus is in the global tissue and packaging markets.
Our company’s penetration efforts into these segments is gaining traction and coming online.
We have and continue to reposition our assets as Harold mentioned.
We’re repositioning our sales teams our value-added technologies at the tissue packaging services mechanical services and the non-paper segments around the world.
Our strategy remains unchanged - enter new or underserved markets that present long-term revenue growth opportunities redeploy our assets and launch new products aimed at building new customer relationships delivering new sales wins and retaining our current client base.
I’d like to conclude that by noting that we are on track on all of these initiatives having landed approximately 1 000 new positions new sales positions in 2015 that will support our 2016 sales going forward.
I’d now like to turn it back over to Harold.
Thanks Dave.
Turning to Slide 6 you can see that the vast majority of our capital intensive repositioning projects were completed in Q4 of 2015.
This is a big enabler for our new wins and new sales programs.
These projects are focused on diversification away from declining graphical grades and converting new machine positions over to Xerium by having the right capacity in the right place market-leading product performance and locally competitive cost structures and lead times.
As stated previously by Dave we achieved approximately 1 000 competitive conversions in 2015 already with successful pretrials and pipeline filling activity.
We’ve now commissioned nine repositioning programs as you can see on this slide seven plant expansions and two brand-new plant startups.
Ahead of us are two more new plants and three more plant expansions.
As already stated we have the equipment in hand it’s been paid for and we’re ready to reposition those assets into these new locations.
Looking at the list here you can clearly see that we are globally repositioning Xerium into growth products and healthy geographies.
We intend to serve customers more effectively with better lead times local availability patent machine performance technology and we’re on track for that.
By far the most expensive project that we’ve undertaken here at Xerium in the past few years is our China plant which is a $40 million project.
I’m happy to report that plant was commissioned and started up at the end of 2015 and is already producing at capacity right now.
The plant is strategically located in the center of the largest paper-making region in the world.
We have big plans and big financial expectations for the China plant site and the new Xerium team there is on track to deliver them.
Our other new plant is located in Corlu Turkey and it also came online at the end of 2015.
This facility contains state-of-the-art rolls equipment transferred from Xerium’s other plants in Europe and aimed at providing customers in the region with locally provided and locally optimized state-of-the-art roll cover and mechanical service technology to enhance machine performance for customers in the region.
In addition we are underway with a project to redeploy Xerium assets into a new rolls and service plant in Southeast Asia.
This market is the largest board and packaging machine market in the world as well as a large tissue market.
Our Asian rolls and service plant investments have been very successful and we’re building upon that success.
We’re also redeploying assets into a new rolls and service plant in Latin America-South America.
This will allow us to expand our presence in a major pulp and paper region that’s healthy and growing.
Lastly we’re underway with a project to implement a brand-new forming fabric production operation in our new plant in China.
The integration of forming fabric production into this Kunshan plant will leverage the low cost labor structure that we put in place and enable Xerium to provide a patented forming fabric portfolio locally just as it has done with press felts at the end of 2015.
So in summary we’re happy to report that we’ve brought online important enabling investments and remain confident in our plans to build this new capacity and offset graphical grade sales declines.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Butterfield our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer for his comments regarding our innovation efforts.
Bill? Thanks Harold.
Hello everyone.
Moving to Slide 7 I’m excited to bring you up to speed on our new products and some big innovations we are rolling out to the marketplace.
We have differentiated our product performance key to new wins in the future mentioned previously by Dave by renovating our product lines between 2012 and 2015.
Our goal remains to differentiate our product performance on targeted machines in growth markets - tissue board and packaging non-paper along with services.
These new products have led to many breakthroughs patents and trade secrets as seen on the left hand of Slide 7.
One such product that has led to huge breakthroughs in performance on tissue and board and packaging machines that we are excited to tell you about is called EnerVent.
EnerVent is a patent pending Xerium exclusive roll cover product which has had amazing trial and first use results.
This new product is used primarily in tissue and board and packaging grades and is delivering revolutionary nip dewatering.
Unlike conventional methods Xerium has developed an innovated grooving and drilling technology which prior to this invention was never available previously for softer roll compounds.
For the first time Xerium’s EnerVent technology delivers superior water removal rates for these cover types resulting in significant increases in sheet dryness while reducing energy consumption on tissue and board and packaging machines which is critical to our customers.
Many successful field trials have demonstrated two to three points of dryness increases leading to low energy consumption and/or allowing the paper maker to dramatically increase machine speed thus the statement something big has happened in tissue board and packaging.
Moving to Slide 8 Xerium is introducing four product areas that are supporting our new wins program in tissue board and packaging and non-paper applications.
Mentioned on our last call was our exclusive new raw material technology which has now demonstrated in additional field trials a reduction in dry energy in addition to higher wear resistance in our machine clothing products.
We have also extended our analytics leadership with our new Smart Connect rolls platform which was launched last week.
This innovation provides instant access via smartphone technology to nip roll performance regardless of industry or location.
Xerium’s technical approach to engineering our customers’ machine performance also on Slide 8 through our Resolve program has dramatically reduced the cost operations for our customers.
Innovation in each of these three product categories has demonstrated extensive operational savings proven through many multiple field trials.
Together they are leading to enhanced machine efficiency performance in energy quality and production output.
We have also filled our remaining product gaps in paper and non-paper applications which are undergoing current field trials and we’re expecting great results in these new products as well.
Our emphasis will continue to be the development of the right products for the right business segments.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Cliff for his comments on our 2016 outlook.
Thanks Bill.
Moving to our final slide our 2016 outlook.
Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $105 million to $115 million per year from 2016 to 2018 and our free cash flow is expected to be $15 million to $30 million per year from 2016 to 2018 depending on the currency environments and specific graphical grade market behaviors.
Q4 2015 results were well below the trend line due to the magnitude and timing of graphical note closures and curtailments and the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Quarterly adjusted EBITDA results tend to be lumpy in our business; however we were able to improve our full-year adjusted EBITDA percentage to 22% which is a 30 basis point improvement over the prior year.
In 2016 in concert with the enabling plant and platform investments we have implemented a market share gain program to fill this new capacity and offset the declines in the graphical markets.
Our main exposure area is machine clothing.
Roll sales remained essentially flat in 2015 despite graphical grade market losses and in 2016 and beyond we expect positive roll sales.
We expect annual adjusted EBITDA to be approximately $105 million to $115 million over the next three years as previously stated as our growth programs fill our platform capacity and we continue our aggressive cost-outs annually.
We have completed the majority of the company’s capital intensive repositioning efforts.
Specifically as Harold mentioned we have completed 16 capital intensive projects.
We constructed two new plants expanded five plants and closed nine facilities.
We have the three projects mentioned earlier underway now and already have the primary equipment on hand.
Lastly surplus free cash flows beginning now will accelerate as our platform investments wind down and that new capacity is filled up with new sales in our targeted markets.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we’re now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator instructions] Your first question comes from Adam Ritzer from Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Hey guys how are you? Good Adam.
I’ve got to tell you this is highly disappointing.
You’re guiding your EBITDA the next three years the same as it was the last three years so we’ve spent by my math $80 million of capex beyond maintenance another $50 million in cash restructuring so that’s $130 million yet zero improvement in EBITDA.
Could you explain that? Yes as you know the fitting preceded the benefit and the plants came online pretty much at the end of the year late fourth quarter so obviously we’ve had no benefit from that.
We are now guiding that we will receive benefit from that on a go-forward basis but we’re anticipating the accelerated decline that happened in graphical in 2015 to continue.
The decline in the graphical grade markets was the highest in 15 years with the exception of the ’08-’09 temporary down spike that happened so the 25% of the market that’s at risk for decline is at a very accelerated pace right now so we are revising our outlook and your expectations that that decline will continue.
We’re very happy with the actions that we undertook in advance not knowing that this downward spike would happen in a core part of the industry and the market so maybe it should have happened a couple of years in advance but it is what is.
They’re online now they’re offsetting negative results already but we’re basically--the change Adam is that we’re basically expecting the record decline in graphical in 2015 versus 2014 to continue and take away some of the goodness that we had had when we were basing our outlook on the gradual decline that had happened over that-- Okay but we used to talk about 115 of EBITDA in 2014.
Again you had talked about 2015 being better than that; it’s worse.
I understand the graphical market’s worse but again where is the return on all this money and all this cash restructuring that we spent? You used to talk about EBITDA in a few years getting up to 140.
We had talked about maybe even 150.
I just don’t--you know I don’t understand where has all that gone? We’ve gone nowhere for three years we’re going to go nowhere for the next three years.
That’s six years of EBITDA being the same.
The graphical market can’t be that.
You talked about that being offset with growth in Latin America and growth in China.
You had talked about the China facility generating $25 million of an EBITDA return on your investment.
I’m just saying - it seems like we’re getting nothing out of all this money we’ve spent.
So if you compare our guidance to the only other public peer we have which is Albany they’re guiding for sales that go down EBITDA to be flat for five years [indiscernible] cost-out activities and their capex spending is double ours or thereabouts.
So if you’re asking why is the industry revising its outlook why is Numera revising their outlook why is [indiscernible] revising their outlook why is our other public peer revising their outlook why are we revising our outlook it has to do with the accelerated downturn in graphical markets.
With regards to the payback on our projects they’re unchanged so if you look at our project IRRs they’re still delivering the same benefits.
They’re being offset by the accelerated takeaway on the graphical side.
We’re not going to double down.
We’re not going to try to regroup to deliver $140 million of EBITDA.
We could.
Instead of that we’re going to use our free cash flow to pay debt down.
Okay so let’s move on to your free cash.
Hold on Adam.
We are giving guidance that we think is conservative - you’re correct on that point so we are picking that up.
We’re trying to be conservative on purpose.
I believe that Albany is too.
We’re still projecting an improvement.
Our EBITDA is not flat - it was $89 million in 2012 and this is significant advancement from that and we’re going to be cash flow generative instead of cash burning which we were in those years.
So it’s a significantly improved financial profile and we’re making the decision instead of re-spending at that same rate to chase an EBITDA number we are going to pay down debt with our free cash flow.
Okay so what are you expecting your capex to be on a maintenance and call it growth spending over the next three-year period? Well Cliff gave you expectations on free cash flow which takes that into account on capex and cash restructuring as well as changes in working capital as we ramp up the working capital profiles in these new operations so the all-in number the free cash flow guidance he’s given to you already.
I know I’m just trying to figure out how you get to that what makes up that component.
I know what interest expense is-- Capital expenditures Adam are forecasted for $28 million in 2016.
We expect them to be about $30 million the next two years after that so down significantly from our spending patterns of the last three years from $50 million down to $30 million.
However we’re still spending about $30 million a year in capex which is about our normal run rate if you go back over the last 10 years and did an average.
Right you’re almost back to a maintenance level of spending.
That’s right that’s right.
If you look at a prior 10-year period the company’s average capex was around 30.
That’s right.
Okay got it.
And you’re still paying cash taxes because of the different jurisdictions right so is that--what $10 million $15 million a year? About $15 million a year Adam.
About 15 - okay thank you.
Then my last question again this may be a little sensitive but we apparently had some kind of bid for the company going back last summer last fall.
We rejected it.
The shareholders didn’t even get a chance to review that.
The stock is cut in half at least from since then and our guidance for the next three years is pretty much flat with the last three.
How come we didn’t explore that a little more fully or why weren’t the shareholders given more information about that bid? Well that’s a private matter obviously.
The shareholder that took their action they reported in an 8-K regarding what they had done and we haven’t elaborated on what we responded or didn’t do.
But I can tell you that we had a formal board process that handled that inquiry properly and nothing came of it.
So that’s all I can tell you.
Nothing was shareholder ready we weren’t ready to talk to Adam Ritzer or anyone else.
Nothing came to that point of view and the board handled it properly.
That’s my view and I’m satisfied that everything was done possible to help all shareholders.
Got it.
Okay thanks for answering my questions.
You’re welcome.
Thank you Adam.
Your next question comes from Anthony Young.
Please state your company.
Your line is open.
Hey guys it’s Anthony Young from Macquarie.
Just a couple of things.
So on the margins you guys sort of indicated that there was a ramp-up or as you ramped up your margins just weren’t were they were in the past.
How should we sort of think about margins going forward? Do you guys have any sort of figure for how much of the cost was associated with start-up costs? Yes hi Anthony this is Harold.
Our margins were up in the year gross margins were up our EBITDA was up.
As Cliff mentioned we had some lumpiness.
We did run some plant variances due to light loads in some of the plants.
We have to recognize that under absorption.
That’s a quarter to quarter phenomenon.
For the year we were up on gross margins and EBITDA and for this year we’ll be up on gross margins and EBITDA.
We have a three and five-year game plan to continue to increase our gross margins and EBITDA.
So yes we were impacted by start-up costs.
We definitely collect and categorize those but we’re improving.
We still improved.
We went backwards in EBITDA last year because of sales volumes and the strong dollar the translation impact of us reporting in dollars and having the majority of our profits not in dollars.
So that was a big part of the lower number but on a percentage basis adjusting for currency and the comparisons we improved our operating profile and we will this year too.
Right.
So I guess my question then would be it ticked up in the fourth quarter would you guys view what happened in the first half of the year as being sort of more as you run rate going forward? It sounds like you have plans for improvement but just sort of thinking about it on a baseline basis where the business is now would the first half be a reasonable representation versus what happened in the third and fourth quarters when you guys were ramping up some of the facilities? Anthony this is Cliff.
The way we look at it is we believe that the sales in the second half of the year given Harold’s comment earlier where we expect graphical grade issues that we’re seeing to continue that’s kind of what we’re planning on.
However from an earnings standpoint we expect the adjusted EBITDA to reflect more closely what we accomplished in the first half of the year.
Okay.
Then just on the graphical grade issue as far as the two businesses go machine clothing and the rolls business it seems like the machine clothing is more exposed to the graphical grade.
Does that mean there’s going to be more closures to come on the machine clothing side than on the rolls side or how should we think about those businesses not necessarily just for 2016 but as we think about the longer term too? It’s a sales mix comment.
If you look at our product lines the graphical grade paper production uses really high-end forming fabrics and that is our best product.
It’s the industry’s best product probably.
We’ve had a high amount of legacy exposure to that.
I will see that it’s permanently disappearing though so our exposure to the topic is declining.
We’ve made a conservative assumption here in our guidance assuming a decline rate that would have these markets disappear pretty quickly.
That’s conservative.
It’s more conservative than some of the outlooks.
Our exposure in machine clothing and graphical is much smaller than our other public peer just given their size and they do report their sales in the United States and Mexico and so do we so we can do a comparison.
So we believe we were hit by timing.
Our customers got impacted a little bit more differentially but overall the market is going to trend down with less demand for newsprint and printing and writing products so that is a bad mix for us.
Rolls are also declining but not as much and if you look at the rolls intensity in some of the other areas that are healthy [indiscernible] and so the mix impact for us to close point mathematically this is machine clothing is where we’re going to suffer so we’re going to have a negative price mix there.
We have had a negative price mix there and we’re making the assumption it’s going to continue and are buckling down for that.
We have re-intensified our cost-out efforts anticipating the same type of decline in ’16 that we had in ’15 so that it doesn’t hurt us like it did.
Okay then just lastly on the Turkey facility.
You guys had previously talked about once that facility ramped up it was going to be largely filled just given the customer and the location.
Is that part of the reason also why roll covers is hanging in a little bit better than machine clothing? Well in roll covers we’re doing well in all regions.
That plant in 2015 gave us nothing so similar to Adam Ritzer’s point - you know where is the payback the payback for these investments is in 2016 ’17 and ’18 so the Turkey plant our prefilling activities on the pipeline and our new positions won exceeded what we thought.
So we did open up full and so they will be contributing in Q1 this year.
They didn’t really give us much last year - they were doing trials and technical approval work so the payback from our big investments will be this year and next year.
We really had the pain was in ’14-’15 and the gain is going to be in ’16-’17.
We already see it in the quarter that we’re in.
So to Cliff’s point Q4 was below trend line but for the year we were down 5% - 4% excuse me for the quarter.
We were down 5 as was Albany so we were down the same.
We both have a little bit different product mixes but we were basically selling to the same crowd just a little bit different product mix.
In the prior quarters we had a little bit worse performance from graphical.
So going into this year we’re going to get offsets from our new investments that we didn’t have last year so that’s why we have an upper range to our guidance where we’re guiding similar to Albany instead of giving point guidance.
We’re getting off that because the hard to predict number here for us is the rate of the takeaway.
We’ve got a hole in the bucket and it’s called graphical grade sales decline and we misjudged that in ’15 and instead of a gradual decline in that it was the worst ever decline except for the ’08-’09 temporary down spike.
So we’re just going to guide conservatively in this range and Turkey will give us--it’s already given us good impact in this quarter as is the Kunshan China plant and these other projects.
So already we see an improving quarter to Cliff’s point on the lumpiness.
So I think that was a low point for us and we’ve stopped our spending already so we haven’t put any down payments on anything else so we’re already free cash flow generative in this quarter as well.
Okay that sounds great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Anthony.
Your next question comes from Dan Abramowitz from Hillson Financial Management.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
I just wanted to follow up on the earlier questions from Adam Ritzer.
You keep talking about Albany as the only real public comp to us facing similar industry headwinds and so forth but I think the source of the frustration that I heard from him and certainly we share it is that even if you look at Albany although we face the same headwinds it’s a different story in terms of how their strategy has performed in terms of returns to shareholders.
Their shareholders have made money; we have not.
Even with all the pressure in certain parts of the industry their stock is still within 10% of its high over the past year; ours is down over 50% and they’re up year-to-date and we’re down 26% year-to-date.
They’re up over 50% since January 2012 we’re flat.
So our strategy with the same sort of macro headwinds has performed significantly worse for the shareholders of Xerium than it has for our other public comp and I think that’s the source of the frustration because we have put an enormous amount of shareholder capital to work as Adam pointed out in both capex and restructuring charges and there just hasn’t been any benefit accrued to the shareholders.
I don’t hear from you guys any sort of sense of urgency or any shifts in strategy that specifically addresses the very very poor shareholder performance that’s now gone on for an extended period of time and the projections that you’re giving us would imply that despite all of that spending we can’t expect to see any growth in EBITDA for the next three years.
So it begs the question how do we change the paradigm of the last three four five years with that sort of backdrop? And I don’t hear anything from you strategically that would address what I think is a reasonable concern from the shareholders that a lot of money and a lot of time has been spent and we are not benefiting from it.
Dan did you ask a question? Okay yeah that was more of a diatribe I suppose than a question.
But I guess the question is given the fact that we are where we are--I mean at some point plowing this enormous amount of capital into the business without any returns to shareholders becomes an exercise in futility because if you can’t make money for the shareholders doing it then the capital would be better spent elsewhere.
So is there any strategic emphasis that’s going to be placed on trying to change the dynamic here in terms of maximizing shareholder value? Okay you’re asking share price kind of questions.
If we get some data out here the share price was about $2.70 a share when I came.
It dipped down over the prior year which you said.
If you compare our enterprise value increases versus Albany’s or anyone’s during the same time period we have that data.
Cliff you want to just give him a little bit of data? Yes sure.
Given the fact that we’re more leveraged any change in our value obviously affects our stock price more significantly so we’ve done comparisons.
We’re pretty close to Albany when you look at change in equity value to enterprise value so we understand our stock price is down but again being a highly levered company we obviously get hit harder and are more volatile than a company that’s got a lot less debt.
What were the changes in enterprise value in ’15 Cliff for the two of us? For us in ’15 we were down 6% if you compare change in our stock value to our enterprise value and I believe Albany’s calculation comes out to 4%.
Yes so a lot of our enterprise value is in our debt right and so if you look at--we have a volatile stock because it sits on top of a lot of turns of leverage.
So the stock has moved around--our stock has moved around more than theirs.
If you look at--I think you were articulating the end of last year or something I don’t remember your data point in your talk there Dan but we did have heavy selling pressure from two shareholders.
Also if you look 13-Fs and look at that public data one of them had a big redemption problem and if you look at the amount of shares we have trade daily we had a staggering amount of selling pressure on our stock which has been relieved.
Regarding our strategy we’re in the middle of it and it’s not different.
I think what--and we are not happy with our stock price performance either but as regards to our projects and the three-year pipeline filling activities there’s no change to that.
The help is on the way thing with our projects that we’re putting in place there’s no change at all to expectations or timing on those or the cost to do them.
What has changed is the takeaway rate on the graphical grades has accelerated and therefore we’re incorporating into that instead of chasing an EBITDA number.
However like the closures of additional plants we have three plants that we can close.
We know how much of EBITDA would be that we would get from them we know how much it would cost.
We could deliver a higher EBITDA number but instead of that we are going to address the debt issue and pay down debt.
From our talks with investors and the feedback we’ve been given we know that we’re a highly levered small cap company.
Our board our management team are pursuing a more aggressive debt pay down program and a moderated balanced EBITDA improvement plan so that’s what we’re doing.
The stock has performed very well during the three-year periods from $2 and something up to around $8 something.
You’re right that it went all the way to a big number and down as did the enterprise values of many small caps.
If you compare our enterprise values to other small cap stocks enterprise values declined for highly levered micro caps and small caps us with it.
So Albany is not a highly levered micro cap; we are.
But if you look at enterprise values which is what Cliff is saying there’s not a big difference.
It’s just that a lot of our enterprise value is in our debt and enterprise values have come down and therefore or stock has been differentially hurt.
We’re not happy.
The speakers on the phone today are big shareholders of this company so you said what are you guys doing about it? What we’re doing about it is we are doing the balanced program.
If you do the math here Cliff’s math the range is up to $100 million of debt pay down so--and in a small amount of time so what we’re doing about it is we’re going to try to repay some of this debt and get it behind us.
We’re going to give conservative expectations on EBITDA assuming that this bad set of circumstances we have on graphical continues and it’s consistent with the guidance given with our other peers and third party data.
Dan come back at me.
Did I address any of your comments you made? Well yeah.
I understand-- We can also take this offline if you prefer a more detailed conversation.
Yes I’d be happy to do that.
It’s just the--well yes I don’t want to beat a dead horse.
But it does have the feeling of a mouse running on a treadmill running very hard but not making forward progress.
You understand what I’m saying? Yes.
Can we move along Dan if you don’t mind? Yes.
Once again if you’d like to ask a question please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
Your next question comes from David Kaiser from Robotti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hey guys how are you doing? Good.
I just wanted to focus on the debt for a second.
How aggressively do you think you can pay it down so if EBITDA’s flat or in the $105 million to $115 million range for the next three years how aggressively can you address the debt number and what other options do you have that sort of thing? David our estimates for the next three years are that we would generate $15 million to $30 million in free cash flow each year.
That money would be available to pay down debt.
From a cumulative standpoint we’re talking about $75 million $80 million and again we’re trying to be careful with our projections given the state of the market right now.
But we believe that that’s very doable and if the markets were to cooperate which we’re not counting on and we don’t want to get caught in that trap but if they were to cooperate we could do better.
I’ll say it differently too.
We don’t intend to kick off another big expensive project.
We intend to pay down debt with any overages that we might have if we’re being overly conservative right now.
No I understand that.
I’m just wondering how much of it is a concern when some of it’s due and how you’re looking at potentially restructuring it or no you’re just going to pay down and how that goes on a go-forward basis.
Oh we’re firmly a B credit and in the three-year period with our maturities we foresee ourselves being a B credit.
We have aspirations to be a BB credit and to be three-times levered.
That’s our midterm goal.
That’s what we’re trying to do.
We’re trying to get to be a BB credit and if you look at our debt we do need to refinance it in ’18 so we have our eyes on that.
We could refinance it now but it would make our cash interest payments go up and we don’t want any part of that.
So we have-- I don’t blame you.
Pardon me? I said I don’t blame you that that’s all logical.
All right well that was my only question.
I think everything else has been asked.
I just wanted a little more clarity on that so.
Thank you David.
You’re welcome.
Once again if you would like to ask a question please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
We have no further questions at this time.
I turn the call over to Harold.
Okay thank you very much.
Appreciate the questions from Adam and Anthony and Dan and David.
We’re disappointed in the quarter we had also but it re-convicts us to do what we’re doing which is get away from this troublesome graphical grade area and the projects we have underway are on track to do that.
We’re going to have to go through this graphical grade decline before we can adjust our guidance up and we’re trying to be good reporters and balanced reporters with the good things and the bad things here so that you can make your judgements properly and well informed.
We are having an improved quarter here that we’re in and we look forward to speaking to you about that quarter in a few months.
So thank you for calling in today.
Operator that will conclude our call.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.