Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International’s website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now opened.
Hi Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions and congratulations on a strong quarter.
I wanted to get right to kind of the key [controversies] [ph] surrounding the stock right now which is the sustainability of your hemophilia franchise.
You’ve raised hemophilia guidance for the back half of this year.
At the same time you are starting to see the competition now coming from the longer acting factor VIII.
Just wondering if you could kind of comment on is that hemophilia guidance raise coming from kind of the confidence in sustainability of your ADVATE franchise in the face of competition or is it coming more from some of these other growth drivers that you mentioned.
Just give us a little bit more color on how you’re thinking about that business moving forward? Thank you.
Bob and Ludwig you want to respond to Derrick’s questions.
Sure.
Hi Derrick this is Ludwig.
So overall we are very pleased with our hemophilia performance.
As Bob was saying we are increasing our sales guidance.
I think the confidence is coming from different angles.
First of all we feel that our ADVATE gold standard position is a strong position and that we believe that we will be able to continue to grow our ADVATE position through different factors.
In addition to that we have new products coming in we have RIXUBIS.
In addition to that the fiber prophy indication is also a strong growth driver.
In addition to that we have geographical expansion playing a role.
So overall we feel good about the guidance that we gave you and we believe it’s coming from different angles here.
Could you perhaps give us quantify a little bit more for us the opportunity from the recent OUS tender wins and the launches in Russia and Turkey of ADVATE as well as maybe Bob if you can give us a sense for how much Brazil is contributing this quarter? Sure Derrick.
The tender wins in Australia and the U.K.
we really will start ramping up activity here in the back half of 2014.
So relative to our expectations and we did have a good line of sight on one of those two to begin with so relative to our expectations not much of an incremental contribution here in 2014.
But as we move into ‘15 and beyond these are multi-year tender awards and I think position us to significantly increase our market share in the U.K.
where it had gotten down to below 10% at one point here and as you know we were completely out of the Australian market and now we have the preferred position.
So we’ve not specifically quantified that opportunity at this point but for both of them it will be a meaningful opportunity to grow internationally and a key franchise for us.
As it relates to Brazil as I’ve mentioned before we are going to experience some lumpiness here as we continue to ramp-up conversion and continue to open up the opportunity for different segments within Brazil and so again we are projecting more than $100 million of sales here.
The contribution in the second quarter was fairly modest.
We do expect that to ramp up throughout the course of the back-half of this year so more than half of that $100 million is going to happen in the back-half.
May be one final follow-up to Ludwig’s comments.
Ludwig can you may be just give us a little bit more detail now that the Biogen longer acting is in the market and that you’ve seen the label.
Could you just may be give us a little bit more detail on sort of your expectations for the impact from that versus what you were thinking before as you’ve seen the label and any additional color on the early progress of their launch and how you’re specifically detailing against that competition? Thank you.
Yes Derrick I think that their label is not much differentiated from the ADVATE label.
If you look at the ADVATE label it has very strong annual bleed rate data in there which is unsurpassed and which is still from a patient perspective the most important thing.
We also have individualized PK in our label.
We have every three day dosing in the label and when you look at the use of ADVATE our ADVATE prophy patients are on an every three day or longer dosing regimen already.
And so the data that we’ve shared with all of you are survey data that comes from patients and healthcare providers tells us that yes the interest of the community is there for a longer acting.
The definition of a longer acting for hemophilia A is one per week or longer dosing regimen.
So our expectation is the same as the guidance that we gave you and that is we expect a single digit impact on our ADVATE to market share till 855 comes on board.
Bob talked about the fact that we’ve completed the enrollment we completed all the assessments we are on track to share 855 data with you third quarter and we are still on track for a submission by the end of this year.
Yes hi good morning.
For Bob Hombach and then I have one for Bob Parkinson.
Just again I just want to want to make sure I’m understanding the cyclo updated guidance.
So are you saying now that you obviously haven’t seen any competition yet and now you’re thinking later in this year and on top of that I think you had been initially anticipating about a $0.25 impact.
Are you now saying it’s $0.20? Again I just want to make sure I’m getting that all correct.
We are now expecting competition to enter late Q3 to early Q4.
We had previously guided to a potential negative impact of $0.20 to $0.30 that we baked into our initial guidance and from that initial guidance we are saying that’s going to get a little bit more than $0.20 better.
So we are going to have improvements relative to our expectation around cyclo.
Our original expectation is a little more than $0.20.
Okay and then you mentioned the investments that you’re going to make against that so how do we sort of think about the net impact of all of this.
Well the net impact is as you know we didn’t change our overall guidance.
So I talked a little bit about a pretty significant ongoing currency head-wind that we’re incurring here of an incremental $0.10 to our expectation as well so that’s largely half of it.
The rest of it relates to incremental investments that we’re making and as you know we did a couple of business development deals here recently in gene therapy for haemophilia A as well as an acquisition for sickle cell anemia treatment.
Those are going to come with R&amp;D burns with them and so that is going to ramp up our R&amp;D spend.
That and a few other things about $50 million for the rest of this year and then we’re making internal investments to support numerous new product launches primarily in BioScience and SG&amp;A.
Those two make up the bulk of the difference between the $0.20 benefit from cyclo and the $0.10 downside related to FX.
Got you.
And then I guess for Bob and may be for Ludwig obviously post the Medtronic and Covidien deal and some of these other ones that are getting announced clearly scale is something that seems to be dramatic out there.
You guys obviously are going to innately get smaller with the spin off.
So I’m wonder if you could sort of discuss a little bit about how you guys think in the individual businesses the needs to get better and to get bigger and sort of perhaps the strategy behind that.
Let me make some may be some general comments for both businesses and then more specifically regarding new BAX and if Ludwig wants to comment on new bio going forward.
Stating the obvious we are consumed right now with activities associated with the spin.
So it’s not about -- at this stage thinking about getting bigger it’s about really moving forward to executive effectively the spin.
Of course one of the strategic motivations behind the decision itself was to increase the focus in both businesses.
I can tell you from the new BAX perspective if you will we feel there is significant opportunities to grow earnings at a faster rate than sales as a result of a number of things but one of which is to your question I think aggressively managing portfolio whether that’s business product geographic portfolio and so on and I think you can anticipate post-spin activity in that regards.
That also sets the stage then I think to be proactive in term the acquisitions and so on to kind of reshape if you will the portfolio that comprises the new Baxter going forward.
But again those are the things we’re evaluating right now but not spending a lot of time on given the focus of the energy slurries is really on the spin.
Ludwig I don’t know from a new bio perspective if you want to add anything to that.
I think probably it describes the intention of your organization right now as well.
Correct.
I think the question is not how do we bigger here.
I think the question is finding the right opportunity within the disease area that we are focusing on which is immunology and hematology oncology.
And I think the question can we make the difference in the patients’ life and how can we bring value.
Yes I think that’s a great summary in fact.
I think you said it’s not about getting bigger at this stages it’s about getting better and the spin and its heart was really about intensifying the focus in each of the businesses so that we can be better both from an innovation point of view as well as how we launch and commercialize our products and manage the portfolios in both business.
So the question of getting bigger is something we always think about but I would tell you right now it’s not really front burner.
Good morning.
Bob Hombach I just want to come back to the margins here for a second.
I understand the discretionary spending in the back half of the year but it’s released the second quarter.
Were some of these discretionary spending items present in the second quarter because obviously we would expect a little more up-side here in the second quarter relative to our expectations given the very strong revenue.
And then Bob some of the things you described are discretionary in nature in the back half of the year.
How much do those carry forward into next year because some of these you described are more base line spending on some of the new JV initiatives and some I imagine you can modulate pretty good heading into ’15.
So if you can give us a sense of whether these items are kind of ’14 discretionary or linger into ’15 and then I have a quick follow-up.
Okay.
Yes as it relates to second quarter there was a fairly significant impact of gross margins.
We did see some incremental SG&amp;A not so much in R&amp;D yet.
As I mentioned the two new acquisitions really are just going to start impacting BioScience from our R&amp;D run rate perspective in the second half of this year.
But from a gross margin perspective the impact was pretty significant in the second quarter primarily from FX and the driver there really is the euro and as you know as we’ve talked about in the past given our global footprint we have significant sales in Europe in the base Baxter business.
Gambro had more than 50% of their sales in Western Europe as well.
So that actually increased our exposure on the sales line which is a good thing.
But on the cost side historically we’ve been able to mute most of Euro fluctuations at the gross margin line through a combination of our manufacturing footprint and financial hedging that we do.
But as we’ve added Gambro into the mix Gambro actually has a disproportionate amount of their manufacturing footprint in Europe and so their cost relative to revenue was much higher in Europe.
So in fact the very strong Euro that we saw in the second quarter was a pretty meaningful negative to gross margin because sales were higher related to the FX translation.
But costs were even higher and so there’s pretty meaningful gross margin impact as we mentioned between that and Gambro a 250 basis point negative on gross margin.
So the lack of drop during the second quarter more is related to gross margin primarily FX and less to do with these incremental investments which again are primarily back half.
And then as it relates to discretionary clearly the R&amp;D run rate for those two acquisitions is going to be their going forward.
The SG&amp;A and new product launches those certainly can be modulated and that’s what we are doing now.
We do have a platter of new products to position in the market over the next six to 12 months and we are going to make sure we make the right investment there but we do have a bit more flexibility on that.
Okay helpful thanks Bob.
And then Bob Parkinson just as you think about the spin heading into next year obviously one of the biggest drivers of the medical products business will still be Gambro and then the broader Renal franchise.
So maybe you can give us an update here over the last six months.
Where do you think you stand as it relates to the organic growth profile you expected at Gambro? There’s capacity coming back on line and some of the cost opportunities that you saw.
How would you give us sort of a summation of where Gambro sits across some of those metrics? Thank You.
Sure Dave.
I would say first of all at a high level we are tracking very well with the original expectations.
More specifically in terms of the cost synergies again tracking just may be a little bit behind in the short term but longer term we feel that the target we communicated to you is more than achievable.
Encouraging earlier returns I think on commercial synergies.
So when you look at the size of the business in terms of revenue what’s becoming increasingly evident is the way to really monitor and this business is more broadly what we call Baxter Gambro Renal now because we are seeing in the market place the expectation that the full complement of products would lever the legacy Baxter businesses Peritoneal Dialysis and obviously home haemo going forward.
In fact if you look at our total Renal business revenue growth continues to perform very well and so in that sense in terms of the revenue line we continue to be very optimistic that we will achieve if not exceed the original expectations.
Having said that on the legacy Gambro business we continue to focus on ramping up capacity specifically in the dialyzer area which is going to continue to be a challenge over the next year or two.
Simply stated there’s more demand right now than our ability to deliver.
You know some of the historical issues that the previous owners of Gambro were dealing with in that regard and so on.
But we are moving forward to expand capacity.
Our two primary dialyzer facilities in Hessiga Germany and Opelika Alabama and it’s just a matter of time before we get that capacity ramped up so that we can accelerate the growth of the dialyzer business.
The acute business in the hospital is growing very nicely and the monitor business we are pleased with how the monitor business is performing specifically some of the reliability improvements and so on.
So without getting more granular I would say again back where I stated at a high level things are tracking very nicely with our expectations.
Thank You.
Good Morning everybody.
I wanted to start with I think the announcement was it was yesterday and you highlighted it today on the call the initiation to the Phase III trials in an Etanercept.
May be you could just talk a little bit more about what you see the U.S.
regulatory pathway being for your biosimilar program and how we should sort of expect that to unfold over the next couple of years.
Hi David it’s Ludwig.
I think as you said its evolving and I don’t think everybody has the answers here.
But for us it’s critical that this is an opportunity to create access to these molecules.
We are building a portfolio.
We believe that a portfolio approach for us is critical so we are building this portfolio and at this moment we have three molecules; one vertigo here and then there’s two with Momenta.
I think there is an opportunity within the regulatory pathway to go for interchangeability.
Of course that’s going to depend on finalizing those regulations as well as what are the product characteristics.
So we believe that we are in a strong situation at least with one of the approaches that we have to shoot for interchangeability.
I think you’ve seen that some of those at least one of molecules is in Phase III.
The other molecules continue to advance in the development.
So stay tuned we’ll know more as we move forward here.
And David specifically related to Etanercept remember we have OUS rights in Europe and several markets outside the U.S.
so it’s not a product that we will have the rights for in the U.S.
Got it thank you.
And then just a follow-up may be to Bob Parkinson’s comment.
I think in response to one of the earlier questions about leverage in the business and you did reference the potential for the remaining Baxter International to generate revenue growth and earning with earning growth pacing at a faster rate.
Could you maybe just talk about the opportunity set there because one of the things that stands out to us at least when I look at your quarterly or annual filings is the extent its current medical product margin sits below peers and I assume we’ll see more in the From 10.
But maybe you sort of just preview for us some of the opportunities that exist there to close the gap in your mid products margin versus peers that has the potential to drive the outsized earnings growth for some period of time.
Sure David.
Well first of all kind of at a high level everybody focuses on the creating of the BioScience spin off at the new public company but I will tell you our mindset is we are creating two new companies here.
The spinoff of BioScience provides the legacy Baxter business which as you know I will run going forward.
I think an opportunity to reevaluate anything and everything that we do and I think that’s really healthy and that’s the mindset that we are embracing.
First of all I think intensifying focus on higher margin growth areas product categories like anesthesia parenteral nutrition certainly the BioSurgery business which while we’ve developed that market very nicely in the U.S.
it continuous to be very undeveloped in many markets outside the U.S.
Also infusion pumps.
With the approval of the SIGMA Spectrum a month or so ago and the anticipated launch later this year with that it’s going to put us in a position to play offence in infusion pumps for the first time really in many years.
If you look at the margin accretion opportunity over the next five years or so in the infusion pump business for us to regain the share that we lost over the years in the U.S.
due to the calling situation and then be able to expand outside the U.S.
there’s probably $0.30 $0.35 of EPS equivalent associated with margin accretion opportunities just in the infusion pump area.
So anesthesia nutrition infusion pump BioSurgery all higher margin areas will benefit from intensified focus and as I mentioned infusion pumps benefiting from now the ability to play offense with the recent approval.
I commented earlier then on the opportunities in terms of portfolio and I think that there is significant opportunities to evaluate.
As an example core businesses like IV’s.
In certain markets the IV business where we can bundle with the contract that includes the disposable sets the infusion pumps the secondary the mini bags the pre-mixes and so on continues to be a very attractive business from a return on investment.
In certain markets in IV’s where we’re contracting separately for IV’s these are largely international markets I think we really need to be more aggressive in terms of evaluating what is the sustainable value of these businesses and so that’s the kind of example from a portfolio geographic in that sense.
The kind of things that I think we will be much more proactive in.
I also think in terms of this new mindset and I’m challenging the organization to evaluative really new paradigms in a lot of different areas.
This recent IV shortage in the U.S.
I think has sensitized a lot of people to the value of these products; products that largely have been taken for granted historically which are essential to saving and sustaining lives and I described it as always the best deal in healthcare to be able of pay for half a liter or a liter of IV at lower price than a bottle of water at Seven-Eleven that kind of puts it in perspective and I think there’s opportunity there in terms of taking prices up and really getting value commensurate with the value that those products serve clinically and so on.
So I’ll stop there.
I would just tell you I’m very excited to really lead this new organization and I think focus on those areas for margin accretion that exists.
So this will be a subject we’ll talk a lot about in the coming months and certainly post-spin as we crystallize more specifically but there’s fertile ground here I believe to support my earlier comment about being able to drive earnings growth at a much faster rate than revenue growth in this new business.
Thank you for taking the questions.
First one Bob Hombach when you had the late March call to announce the separation it sounded like you still had a fair amount of work to do to put some numbers behind the separation costs.
Have you had any additional work done on what you think the dilution from the spin will be; meaning really for you guys will be all the incremental overhead that will have to be created and I think you said at that time you didn't expect any tax leakage.
So has there been any change there? Thanks.
Yes and no change on the view on tax leakage as I mentioned.
I think transactionally we as create legal entities and move assets and people in various countries around the world there may be small amount which will call out as separate special items but in terms of ongoing tax rate for the two businesses no change in prior view.
Nothing significant we see for either business here at this stage.
As it relates to synergy we’re certainly working diligently internally to estimate what gross synergies are going to be and then how we’re going to go about mitigating them how much before the spin occurs and how we will be able to get out the cost position over the first year or two.
Again we’re not seeing anything significant or different than what our consultants would say the benchmarks look like so nothing has popped up and no red flags from what I said before that I think we are largely going to be in line with the type of operational this synergy you’ve seen from other spin-offs.
I would say though that our international footprint which represents 60% of our sales on an annual basis we are very integrated it will be very complicated to separate the two businesses but I think as we create a new biopharmaceutical company in an international framework we’ll be able to do that in a fairly streamlined way.
So again there may be a little bit of extra dilution on day one related to international but nothing significant.
Okay.
And then can you give us an update on maybe – well it maybe two items.
One you haven't talked about recently the plans for the vaccine business.
Has there been any progress there? And then two we've got the [IQVU] (ph) panel coming up at the end of the month.
Can you set expectations for what we'll see that will be new in the panel pack and how you expect the language from the FDA to read in the panel pack? Thanks.
Bob you want to handle the vaccines and… Yes certainly.
As we mentioned earlier this year we did take the strategic decision to look at first a couple of development programs within R&amp;D particularly flu and our line program and see if those would be better served to be partnered or divested and we also were open potentially to our two inline vaccines to divesting those as well depending on the preference of the partner.
So we’ve gone through a process talked to a lot of different interested parties and that process is ongoing so not appropriate to comment further now.
We are very focused on optimizing the value of the overall vaccine portfolio and as we make progress we’ll certainly share that as appropriate so still working on it but nothing to update at the moment.
With respect to the [IQVU] (ph) panel scheduled for July 31 the team is getting ready for the interaction the dialogue.
No new questions.
It’s still the same as we discussed the four questions or the questions related to long term safety of the antibodies related to a pH20 and specifically neuronal development in fertility so nothing new there.
I’m very pleased that you will be able to see all our data and we believe that our data is clean and that we have a positive benefit risk but as you will be there most likely we’ll have a great dialogue with the FDA.
Thank you Ludwig.
Good morning Bob how are you doing? Hi.
Bigger picture first.
You're clearly investing heavily on the biosciences side pre-spin seemingly on the surface a little less though in medical devices although obviously Gambro is a big investment that you're integrating.
So definitely you're actively supplementing biopharma ahead of the spin.
Should we expect that Medical Product business development opportunities could come before the spin too or are you going to focus on that post-spin? And maybe just as part of that as long as I'm laying it all out here it sounds like you're interested in M&amp;A.
What areas are you likely to be thinking about? Something directly related to the existing business or broadening the scope of the post-spin med device company? Thanks.
Okay Rick thanks for the questions several things.
Yes I mean obviously when Gambro is the largest acquisition in the history of the company so that really expresses an investment I guess in the new batch but I think may be what is under appreciated is much is in the R&amp;D area.
The nature of the investments have been really in new systems; home hemodialysis the VIVIA system which we’re really excited about has been a five year investment.
Likewise the AMIA system which is our next generation home choice and so on.
So those don’t jump out in the way that our bio pharmaceutical investments do but we have been making meaningful investments in internal R&amp;A those being just a couple of examples.
Relative to business development activity going forward I mean we continue to be open to that despite as you say and we all know our primary focus is the spin.
I’m not suggesting we won’t do anything but if we do it will be of the smaller nature.
Longer term look we think there continue to be opportunities within the two core areas which are the treatment of end stage renal disease as well as the hospital channel.
With the movement of the BioSurgery business over to the new Baxter going forward very few companies can represent the breadth and diversity of products that are sold in the acute care hospital and so from an acquisition business development point of view going forward that will continue to be I think a major area of focus to further solidify the channel.
I’m not sure what percent of all healthcare dollars are either spent or driven through the acute care channel but it’s a very high percentage and as I say very few companies have a strong over presence in platform from a channel perspective there as we do.
So I think it’s fair to say at a very high level that will drive our business development including acquisition efforts going forward.
And Rick I would just point out that I did mention in my prepared comments that in addition to the SG&amp;A and R&amp;D investments we are making investments in operations within medical products.
We’re seeing very strong demand particularly in the U.S.
for IV’s and PD and we’re seeing the regulatory environment raising the bar on everything from production through logistics so there are incremental investments going in to that as well.
Right and just to follow up quickly on renal Bob Hombach as you said PD gains are very strong in the quarter up 15% in the U.S.
Is that kind of growth sustainable? May be help us understand that and help us understand a little bit more about the timing issues OUS.
I mean do they swing back positive in the second half? It didn’t happen in the second quarter but now they have happened.
I’m not sure I fully understood what was going on there.
Thank you.
Well let me Rick I’ll comment on kind of what I’ll call the market trends and then if Bob wants to add some color in terms of specifically the financial flow and so on he can do that.
It’s fair to say that globally not just the U.S.
but globally there is a movement in tumor treatment in the home okay whether that’s peritoneal dialysis or over time home hemodialysis and you see a number of countries Thailand being one Taiwan being another.
In the case of Thailand what they called PD first which says look as we provide access to treatment of in-stage renal disease the government policy is going to drive treatment in home.
There is this general feeling that its lower cost it certainly is greater convenience for patients and in some cases and we believe very strongly in terms of home hemodialysis we are going to be able to demonstrate advancing clinical outcomes in a terms in a meaning full way such as life expectancy and so on.
So when you see the same dynamics going on in the U.S.
and so in response to the first part of question Rick yes I think the strength that we’re seeing in the U.S.
market for PD clearly is going to continue.
I think it’s driven by kind of a rebalancing of the reimbursements so now there are economic incentives for the providers to be in PD and ways in the past there were not and then of course with our launch over time of a home hemodialysis I think it further accelerated to grow.
So simply stated in the U.S.
I think the strength you’re seeing is not a transient effect.
I think it’s a representation of some more longer-term environmental trends and give us confidence that that kind of growth is sustainable.
Bob you want to comment maybe more specifically on the numbers part of it.
Yes so as it relates to PD patients in the U.S.
I mean we’ve seen a pretty consistent trend over the last five or six quarters of high single digit low double digit PD patient growth.
So that demand is there with the harmonization around reimbursement.
We are certainly seeing a very strong move in the U.S.
in particular.
So I don’t think 15% necessarily is sustainable but certainly high single digit low double digit PD patient growth here in the near term is certainly a possibility.
And OUS given the mix of revenue that we get per patient in different markets whatever the renal sales number we are reporting you can be assured that the patient growth is probably a little faster for all the reasons that Bob just mentioned.
So we are globally seeing very strong PD patient growth but particularly in the U.S.
The other think that I would mentioned again from a macro perspective is that in many emerging markets and developing markets you have a lot of patients that aren’t even being treated today.
So it’s one of the reasons we made the investment in Gambro that we did.
This is a large market it’s going to continue to growth.
By virtue of the Gambro acquisition we have established a leadership position in this market augmented by the existing launch system new products such as VIVIA in the home and I think it’s a good bet that we made long term.
Yes last think I’ll add the second quarter is somewhat depressed because of the timing of our tender as we talked about in Q1 related to renal so I’d really look at year-to-date sales as being more indicative of the trend.
Yes good point.
Sam we have time for two more questions.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to check just with the respect to the spin-off at the time of the announcement you guys had commented that you do not anticipate being able to redomicile the BioScience businesses.
Is that still the case or have your thoughts changed at all? No change.
I mean certainly just as a function of a spin out.
That is not an opportunity to do a tax-free redomiciling.
So that’s not on the radar.
Okay.
And then just on the IG business can you comment just a little bit about what you’re seeing in terms of the dynamic between price and then the supply in the marketplace because it sounds like price has been a little less favorable than what it has been historically particularly within the U.S.
Yes I would say we’ve had very modest expectations on price in the U.S.
over the last couple of years and our longer range outlook assume that as well.
So I think that remains largely consistent.
We are looking forward to having enhanced supply here as we go forward.
We are able to support market growth here in ‘14 and ’15 with our current footprint and we continue to work with Sanguine to bring flexible capacity online which we expect in 2015 to be able to provide not only for the U.S.
potentially but certainly for Europe and other markets.
So we are pleased with where we are at from a capacity standpoint and the flexibility we are going to have going forward and again from a price perspective I think largely in-line with our expectations.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Ludwig one question for you.
Just to clarify you kind of framed the (inaudible) impact as kind of high single digits in the U.S.
I guess just to clarify is that high single-digit market share in the second half or is that average over the whole year or is that actually in fact a worldwide impact? The single digit market share impact is for the U.S.
and that is between now and the launch of 855.
Perfect that's great.
And Bob one of the things that just looking at the numbers and it's not a very insightful observation but when you look at the renal business it is so heavily ex-US.
So could you just broadly speak about the opportunities in the U.S.
now that Gambro is part of the fold? Yes.
Bruce some of this is consistent with my response earlier.
It was to Rick Wise’s question.
For the first time over the last year or so largely as a result of reimbursement changes and so on we are seeing really a boost to our PD business.
We look forward to that being augmented by the home HD launch but there is a lot of things that now for the first time in the U.S.
are actually driving consideration of treatment in the home whether that is PD or HD which is very exciting because frankly the U.S.
business as you know for us has been pretty lack luster over the last number of years but as has been demonstrated I think Bob Hombach cited some of the growth numbers for PD patients.
We are really seeing that business get re-energized and again as I commented in my response earlier to Rick we think that’s going to be sustainable.
Thanks so much we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!