Good morning.
My name is Kyle and I'll be your conference facilitator.
I'd like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an update by Greg Kenny on key themes for 2014 including the company's restructuring program.
Secondly Brian Robinson will provide comments on our second quarter results and the outlook for the third quarter and full year followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Greg Kenny.
Greg? Good morning and thank you Len.
Our restructuring program is off to a fast start as planned.
We've taken prompt action announcing the closure of the India and Peru greenfield locations as well as the closure of one manufacturing facility in North America.
The closure of these 3 facilities is expected to generate around $12 million in annual savings and result in onetime pretax charges in the range of $50 million including approximately $12 million of cash.
In India we plan to maintain our local sales team focused on higher value-added products such as extra-high voltage power cables.
Our plan is to continue to service this demand with products manufactured in our facilities in Thailand as well as France.
Similarly we plan to service our important market position in Peru by utilizing other regional manufacturing assets.
In North America we are consolidating a smaller facility that produces aftermarket ignition wire sets for the Mexican and Latin American markets.
This represents the third facility closure in North America this year as we announced the permanent closure of 2 Electric Utility facilities in February.
Finally we continue to take cost out through targeted reductions in SG&amp;A expenses globally.
Overall we anticipate approximately 20% of our envelopes will be impacted by the restructuring program half of which may result in facility closures while the other half represents facility realignment or production reconfiguration.
We anticipate the majority of the total pretax charges of the program of approximately $200 million will be recognized in 2014.
The cadence of these actions is deliberate in order to ensure customer service levels and continuity.
We are also sensitive to our employees during this period of transition and certain legal requirements.
We appreciate the contributions of all our employees and we'll support those impacted during this period of transition.
While these are difficult decisions we believe these actions represent important steps towards improving our profitability and return on invested capital.
The program is targeting annual savings of approximately $75 million which represents more than 1/3 of the company's current 2014 full year guidance for adjusted operating income at the midpoint.
The wire and cable industry have been waiting through an uneven and lengthy global economic recovery over the past several years including 2014 where growth momentum continues to be inconsistent.
We continue to face uneven spending for utility and construction products in North America and Latin America as well as persistent challenges in Spain and Thailand.
Despite these challenges our results for the second quarter were within our guidance range for both adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS.
While the momentum we anticipated going into the construction season failed to materialize we are still planning on a solid second half of the year as the burden of selling higher average cost inventory subsides and the initial benefits of our restructuring program are realized.
Additionally we continue to make progress on our productivity and asset optimization plans including greenfield turnaround plans in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
We're also anticipating a stronger second half in France due to spending on electrical utility cables including terrestrial turnkey projects.
Finally we are expecting better results in Thailand as conditions improve domestically in the latter part of the year.
Overall we're expecting to generate adjusted operating income of $200 million to $230 million for 2014 including Venezuela an improvement of 8% year-over-year at the midpoint.
We are confident in our strategy competitiveness and ability to create shareholder value.
Our top priority is the execution of our restructuring program which we believe will further strengthen the alignment of our portfolio with the long-term fundamental growth prospects for energy infrastructure and construction investment in key end markets around the world.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Brian.
Brian? Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone.
Overall the strong performance of our submarine turnkey project business coupled with seasonal demand patterns helped to partially offset the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment in the second quarter where adjusted operating income of $57 million and adjusted EPS of $0.29 were both within our guidance range.
Next on Slide #10 net sales and global unit volume were down year-over-year 4% in the second quarter of 2014 principally due to aerial transmission cable shipments in North America and Brazil and construction product sales in North America and Latin America.
Year-over-year adjusted operating income for the second quarter reflects the impact of lower unit volume including aerial transmission and construction cables particularly aluminum building wire in North America as well as the ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
Partially offsetting the impact of these items were the strong results of our submarine turnkey project business as we achieved important milestones on a significant project.
On Slide 11 net sales and unit volume increased sequentially 7% and 3% respectively.
This improvement reflects the impact of seasonal demand trends coupled with a greater mix of copper-based products and lower aerial transmission aluminum-based product shipments in North America and Brazil.
Additionally the second quarter reflects the seasonally stronger production and installation activities of the company's submarine turnkey project business.
Overall adjusted operating income increased approximately $34 million or 148% principally due to seasonal demand patterns as well as the strong performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business which helped to offset the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment and the ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
We will discuss the outlook for the third quarter and full year in a few slides but first I want to take you through the second quarter in more detail on Slide 12 13 and 14.
On Slide #12 in North America adjusted operating income was down year-over-year principally due to demand trends in key businesses including electric utility construction and communications which were down in the second quarter of 2014 approximately 10% 15% and 14% respectively.
However the sequential demand trends were encouraging as electric utility distribution cables aluminum building wire and communication cables were up 15% 7% and 19% respectively in the second quarter.
Overall these seasonal demand trends helped to mitigate the burden of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment in the second quarter of 2014.
Next on Slide 13 adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 in Europe &amp; Med reflects the continued strong performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business which achieved an important milestone in the second quarter of 2014 on a significant project.
Our business in France also performed well during the second quarter as we benefited from spending on electric utility products including production and installation activity on terrestrial turnkey project business.
Partially offsetting these trends were the ongoing challenges in Spain as well as the burden of selling higher average cost inventory during the second quarter.
The company's project backlog including both submarine and terrestrial is currently around $550 million.
Next on Slide 14 year-over-year adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 in Rest of World declined principally due to the impact of weaker results in Thailand as a result of the ongoing domestic conditions and lower aerial transmission cable shipments in Brazil.
Sequentially adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 improved principally due to seasonal demand patterns as unit volume increased 7% as compared to the first quarter.
Unit volume throughout Latin America and Asia Pacific more than offset lower aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil and the impact of the ongoing challenges in Thailand.
On Slides 15 and 16 we have provided our third quarter and full year outlook.
On Slide 15 sequentially net sales and global unit volume for the third quarter are expected to improve principally due to shipments of aerial transmission cables in North America and continuing progress on the company's greenfields in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
Partially offsetting these trends are the expected seasonal declines in Europe.
As a result the company expects adjusted operating income to be in the range of $60 million to $75 million for the third quarter of 2014.
The company expects these results will include initial benefits of the restructuring program as well as the continued progress on the company's productivity and asset optimization plans including its greenfields in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
On Slide 16 for the full year 2014 we expect adjusted operating income to be in the range of $200 million to $230 million.
Global unit volume is expected to be flat to down low single-digits year-over-year.
Adjusted operating income for 2014 is expected to improve year-over-year as the company begins to realize savings from its restructuring program and its productivity and asset optimization plans as well as the performance of greenfields including Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
The company also expects the impact of the political situation in Thailand to ease somewhat in the latter part of the year.
Operating cash flow is expected to be in the range of $135 million to $165 million.
The revised operating cash flow outlook principally reflects higher working capital due to lower-than-expected inventory reductions given the current year demand environment.
Moving to Slide 18 net debt was $1 256 000 000 at the end of the second quarter an increase of $104 million from the first quarter.
The increase in net debt is principally due to the normal seasonal trends as the company funded higher working capital in the second quarter of 2014.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth opportunities including product expansion as well as shareholder capital deployment.
The company remains focused on its shareholder distribution policy which is set at 30% to 40% of adjusted net income over the cycle.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
This is Chris Dankert standing in for Shawn Harrison.
I'm just kind of curious can you give us a little bit of an update as far as exactly how much of the savings land in 3Q versus 4Q? And I've got a quick follow-up on that.
Yes I would say the overall estimate we talked about when we announced the restructuring program was about $10 million in the second half.
And I'd say at this point maybe it's 50-50 so maybe half in the third half in the fourth we're -- as you saw we announced specifically and named the facilities of Peru and India.
So as we move quickly on those we expect more of an immediate benefit there or improvement to the underlying earnings.
Okay and then kind of to that I mean is it kind of split about that way so 2/3 of the benefit is directed towards ROW? Yes that's fair.
In order of magnitude that's I think the right way to think about it as India and Peru would [indiscernible] be reported in that segment yes.
Okay great.
And then sorry one last thing.
Do you guys have a sense for what a sustainable EBIT margin is in EMEA now? And then submarine was doing very well and then France you said was positive.
Was there any other region that was positively contributing in the quarter? Yes.
I think in terms of sustainable clearly we're pleased with the continued execution in the NSW business a very strong quarter partly because we hit a very important milestone on a large project.
So the EBIT margin in E and Med in the second quarter it's going to benefit from that and we expect more of a I would say normalization in the second half of the year but still strong results in NSW strong results in France.
And as we said we continue to deal with the ongoing challenges in Spain.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> My first question I just wanted to focus on your cash flow guidance.
When you lowered your guidance a few weeks ago I think you kind of said it was a little bit early to comment on the cash but you still felt okay with the range.
You've brought it down pretty substantially so I was just hoping that you could walk us through what changed in the past few weeks in terms of how you're looking at cash flow.
Yes Noelle.
That's right when we reported a 2 weeks ago we said we are still looking at things and going through our internal processes.
The key element and as we said -- or I said at the time I thought the reduction in the earnings given the movements on our working capital there was that we needed to look at all the pieces the main pieces on the inventory as we said.
So we've not been able to get as much of inventory out as we had forecast partly because of the demand environment.
And so that's the principal reduction of the $100 million at the midpoint.
We're focused on that.
We're internally focused on getting both this and more in terms of our working capital and specifically our inventory management.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second can you quantify the impact that you estimate selling at the higher cost inventories with higher metals prices embedded had in the quarter? We think it was around I'll call it $12 million to $15 million? That's our estimate.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then third question just looking at some of these markets that you cited being down and or kind of challenged in the U.S.
so both North American communications down significantly year-over-year.
I was hoping maybe you could just provide a little bit of detail on what you're seeing there in terms of maybe some of the higher-end solutions that you sell versus -- you've been getting into the telephone cables and then just commenting on construction as well what you're seeing in terms of your aluminum solution and copper and then you cited some pricing pressure there.
Is that coming from a single competitor or is it just kind of a slower non-res recovery making that a more challenging market? Yes in communications we have a couple of businesses.
One is a copper telephone for the outside plant that has been declining consistently for 10 years and that's what drives the number down.
Our data communications business where we're a leader we see that market moving sort of sideways.
We continue to be successful with our higher-end solutions and it's a successful and key strategic business for us.
So in the end sideways on Datacom which is a bit bigger than the copper telephone and copper telephone by pounds and units has been declining and continues to decline perhaps with the -- if non -- if resi construction picks up we might see that rate of decline slow down but that's been down 0% to 10% a year kind of number for a long time.
We are seeing strong pressure on the aluminum building wire business.
A competitor entered the business and seems intent in growing that business.
We're going to defend our position strongly.
It's where we have a wonderful brand name STABILOY and NUAL in Canada and that's an unfortunate element of people taking strategies and that's their strategy.
So we've seen a lot of value add be erased as well as volume from that business.
And we will defend our position vigorously and I would say that cost us volume and price over the first half of the year and we expect that pressure will be there but we will meet it.
I would say looking forward we see some increase in incoming orders in the industrial side and the specialty side which has been strong areas of performance for us over the last 10 years.
These are all the niche products that go into lots of complicated installations and we've been growing those businesses quite nicely.
We also see a strong wind area.
The wind segment has been quite strong and we're seeing just a bit of a liftoff in the low-voltage and medium-voltage cables to the utilities.
But again it's way down from where it was 10 years ago.
But it seems to have stopped going down but it's not a big breakout upward but it is stabilizing and moving slightly upward.
In transmission cables we think this year will be down in the U.S.
and Canada from prior year by kind of the 20% range.
And looking out forward it looks to be still the demand out there but may not hit the peak of 2012 though there are a lot of projects.
And clearly if the projects are released we could exceed that number.
So that's basically Noelle I think the tour principally of the Americas.
Was there a follow-up on demand and what we're seeing? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> No that's actually pretty good color.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I understand you guys are backing out Venezuela going forward.
But have you seen indications of your operations in that region turning? Or are you still seeing some pressure? They seem to view us as someone that is critical to the economy and certainly to the oil company and we've had some release from the government for cash to bring copper into the country.
And there is still a law of fair prices which we must subscribe to.
So profits are constrained and we have had not a lot of raw materials to run which is obviously -- has hit every major manufacturing company there but we've recently had a release from the government to bring in copper and we will go ahead and do that.
Copper is the biggest part of the business with aluminum smaller so it's a business that we think will move along.
We won't put more capital into the business but we think it could be profitable locally or breakeven or better but again a far cry from where it was and it's mostly due to -- we just can't predict how much raw materials we'll be granted to bring in in order to keep the plant running.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it looked like you...
We're no different than what you've been reading in the Wall Street Journal and others about other manufacturers whose output are down materially but we did get some good news recently in terms of the import of copper.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then looks like you're expecting that average cost kind of headwind to be maybe a little more of a tailwind in Q3.
Are you factoring any benefit into your guidance for that? It's around a push.
Right now copper is around $3.23.
So it's broadly neither a headwind nor a tailwind.
Again the issue has been the industry is not running at capacity so there is -- it's pretty far from capacity other than in a few segments.
So the ability to recover up or down is more limited but it would be a push broadly if it stays where it is today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Brian your CapEx guidance is unchanged from last quarter.
With the facility closures what sort of incremental CapEx reduction could we expect going forward? Not a lot Brent.
Those facilities obviously were under close evaluation.
We talked about the milestones and the like.
So I would still be comfortable with the range and if anything a small benefit but for now I'd hold the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last one Brian.
You had a $0.05 share impact from restatement and forensic costs.
Should you see the additional costs going forward? Or is that behind you know? I think you should -- there's still be -- out of the last couple of years there's still -- we still have items that were let's call are tails from all of that activity.
So we continue to have some expense there.
I would say we'd expect it to come down a bit as we get these various items resolved.
But it's -- obviously it's yet another cost that is -- that we're focused on and we're managing it very tightly.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So with your $125 million of senior notes coming due you next year I think you guys talked about maybe taking some action to replace that.
Just curious if there's been any progress or if you have any updated thoughts on making some moves there.
Yes.
Noelle it's Brian.
Clearly my comments would be consistent with what we said a few weeks ago.
We continue -- we've got obviously significant liquidity on the U.S.
ABL -- U.S.
Canadian and European ABL excuse me.
So we're looking -- so I think the options are everything from using the ABL to refinancing net debt in the public markets.
And if and when we have something to say clearly we'll do that.
But for now I would say we continue to actively evaluate our options and that's how we're thinking about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in the news obviously we've seen companies continue to move from SICAD I to SICAD II in Venezuela.
Curious if you have any additional thoughts on that situation and your guy's accounting there? No additional thoughts.
We've been using the SICAD I rate.
It's -- there's unique circumstances I think in our case around the copper and the fact that we have approvals at various rates.
So we're cognizant that a number of companies some -- I shouldn't say a number I'm aware a handful of companies have gone to the SICAD II rate.
And I said on the last call it does create risk around our balance sheet and the devaluation risk which as I said on the -- previously our estimate is that's about a $100 million sort of risk to the -- from a devaluation perspective.
So we continue to monitor it very closely.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then I guess just going back to the trends you're seeing in the business.
Greg can you go into what you're seeing in Europe in a bit more detail in some of the key markets there? Yes.
We continue to see -- we have a land turnkey business that's important and that we're the technological leader in.
And I would say there's some pretty good project activity there and they're sometimes quite complex projects.
This relates to the interconnection of the grid in Europe as well as bringing power from alternative energy generation into the grid.
So -- and I would say that's stronger in France and Northern Europe though there are -- there's a key connection between France and Italy that we're involved with.
So that business I like what we've done there and I feel strongly about our execution.
Again that's a global business that's centered -- has a center of excellence out of France but also ties into a facility we have in Mexico and Thailand.
But again the European market for those products is strong and we are able to demonstrate very strong technical confidence and creative solutions to problems in the grid.
I would say the French market is sort of sideways from the regular products but we're -- they're spending on the utility segment which is an area of strength for us.
Northern Europe seems pretty good.
Again this is all relative to the last couple of years.
Spain we need to continue to forge a solution for it's demand.
We see a second half that is slightly better but still from an operating basis around breakeven.
Spain was losing money on an operating basis.
This is before interest and taxes in the first half.
So we're very focused on that and again this is Spain and Portugal and those products are both sold in Iberia as well as elsewhere.
So Spain is probably bottoming at a very low or Iberia at a very low level.
We're doing well in our communications cables in Europe.
And so I would say net-net Europe has intense competition for the more flow products or low-voltage products as everybody from the East of Europe to North Africa's looking for volume.
We do see some differentiation around the more complex products that fewer people can do.
In the submarine business which is broadly focused on power side in the north of Europe see a little bit of -- there's a lot of project activity.
A lot of it is in 2016 '17 '18 timeframe.
But we're completing major projects now we're building our submarine communications business but I would say obviously there's a big debate in Europe and many programs launched but debated in terms of the alternative energy.
But we have multiple business units up at NSW.
It's being extremely ably managed in terms of completing complex projects and what we need to do is stay focused and win new business in that facility and continue to work on our cost structure and flexibility.
So I'm moderately encouraged.
I'm proud of what they were able to do this year.
It is a seasonal business as you know because of weather.
But net-net we see a lot of opportunity a slight lull in 2015 but we're continuing to look for ways of filling the facility then but then a bit of a strengthening in '16 and '17.
So all in all in Europe we've got to keep driving our cost and driving our cost and driving our cost and then work the niches which really are communications and a lot of the utility cables as well as the turnkey business.
So I'm pleased with what that team's been able to do and we're -- I'm cautiously optimistic but we're not getting great help in terms of demand but we've got to help ourselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Just a quick clarification on an earlier question.
You were saying North America transmission you see it down about 20% this year.
Tough market but I was kind of curious if you could break out what you see the end market growth as being and if there is an opportunity to capture share there and then what you're kind of expecting for 2015 in utility or in the transmission market rather? The market is up.
As we pointed out in prior meetings this is one of the few businesses that's actually stronger now or in the last couple of years than it was say in 2004 or 2005.
There are lots of projects available and we want to protect margin and get paid for the work we do.
But I would say we'd see it slightly improve from this year 2014 but probably not reaching 2013 levels.
But again happily this is lumpy business and releases come and go.
But there's a fair amount of activity out there in terms of bid and I would see it as net-net below -- above this year but below say the peak which was 2012-ish for us.
But again 2012 was almost double where it was 10 years ago.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.