Good morning.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference call.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Greg will discuss the strategic initiatives and leadership transition plans we announced in our press release last night.
Brian Robinson will then provide comments on our third quarter results and the outlook for the fourth quarter and full year followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I want to call your attention to our safe harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide 4.
I will now turn the call over to Greg Kenny.
Thanks Len and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in our press release last night our board has decided to make a fundamental shift in our strategy by exiting our operations in Asia Pacific and Africa while sharpening our focus on core businesses in North America Latin America and Europe.
I'd like to take some time on today's call to talk you through the thinking behind this move and to explain why we believe it is the best way to improve operational performance and maximize value for our shareholders.
First while many of our businesses have strong potential our overall performance has lagged and our board and management are not satisfied at all with this performance for the resulting impact on our stock price.
We do not believe our current stock price reflects the value inherent in our business.
And so working closely with our financial adviser JPMorgan our board conducted an extensive review of our strategic options to determine the best path forward to maximize shareholder value.
In reviewing these alternatives we carefully considered our outlook for the global economy and the pricing environment in our markets and around the world.
Over the past several years the industry has and continues to weather some significant challenges.
Understanding the highly cyclical nature of our industry we have exercised patience in our end markets but have come to a view that the path forward requires a sharpened focus on our core strategic operations.
Ultimately the board concluded that the best way to maximize value in the current global environment is to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and focus on delivering improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
Focusing on these core markets will enable us to better leverage economies of scale and capitalize on our leading positions across key markets where we have built long-standing customer relationships efficient supply chains and offer a broad range of products.
These businesses will continue to serve our global customers with higher value-added products and services as they have always done.
This move will allow us to focus on building out our expanding position in turnkey projects communications transportation industrial and specialty cables in markets that are generally more willing to pay for high quality and at times application-specific products.
In the end we are making this change to ensure that our management has a laser focus on our core business.
We're developing a divestiture plan for Asia Pacific and African assets.
We will have more to say about that plan and our progress in upcoming calls but our plan is to exit these operations as expeditiously and orderly as possible while protecting the substantial underlying value.
Clearly we want to make sure that our customers' needs are met during this process.
We are very focused on those affected by these decisions to ensure they are treated with fairness and respect.
We are sensitive to the objectives of our minority investment partners in Thailand the Philippines Fiji Algeria and Zambia.
As you can see from Slides 5 and 6 the impacted regions represent about 16% of sales or about $1 billion.
Following the divestitures North America will represent more than 50% of our business where we are well-positioned and a market leader.
In Europe we have one of the richest product offerings in the industry a history of innovation and enjoy long-standing relationships in our end markets.
While we are sober about the near-term prospects in Europe we believe we are making the right changes that will drive better returns.
We also believe the industry is making important changes that will prove beneficial over the cycle.
Finally we are maintaining a meaningful level of exposure to developing economies in Latin America where we are a leader with a presence in nearly every country.
We believe our economies of scale proximity and ability to leverage North American manufacturing know-how in the introduction of higher value-added products offers growth opportunities throughout the region in addition to future energy infrastructure and construction investment.
Turning to Slide 7.
I'm pleased by the strong progress in our restructuring program as we have announced through the third quarter about 80% or $60 million of our planned initiatives to generate annual savings of $75 million.
To date we've announced the following actions: in the third quarter the announcement of planned actions in Europe and Colombia are anticipated to generate $48 million in annual savings.
Our plans include the consolidation and realignment of our assets in Europe.
They also include the consolidation and streamlining of our assets in Colombia where we are further strengthening our platform for future success in one of the most attractive long-term growth markets in Latin America.
This is in addition to the actions we announced in the second quarter including the closure of manufacturing facilities in Peru and India and one manufacturing facility in North America which are expected to generate $12 million in annual savings.
Overall we expect these actions will result in a onetime pretax charges of about $180 million including approximately $52 million of cash.
Turning to Slide 8.
We announced yesterday that we'll be moving forward to implement our planned leadership transition.
Our board has formed a search committee to identify my successor as CEO.
Once a successor is identified the board has asked me to remain on the board and become Chairman and I've agreed to do so on an open-ended basis as the needs of the company dictate.
My duties in this role would include a smooth transition for the new CEO and successful completion of the sale of the noncore assets while maintaining their value in the interim.
Jack Welsh our current Chairman will remain on the Board of Directors as Lead Independent Director once the new CEO has been selected.
Complementing the recent addition of Ned Hall an energy infrastructure expert and operating executive we also plan to add another operations-experienced independent director to augment and support our current board and management.
We have already identified potential candidates with strong operational experience and we expect to complete the search in the near term.
Throughout this process we are pleased that we have strong experienced regional leadership in place to assist in effecting a smooth transition.
Greg Lampert in the Americas and Bob Kenny in Europe are 2 seasoned executives and they will continue in their roles.
Peter Campbell currently Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of General Cable Asia Pacific will direct the noncore businesses during the divestiture process.
Overall we have a clear strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure a laser focus on increasing returns of core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We are committed to generating returns that exceed our cost of capital over a cycle and plan to aggressively manage our core strategic assets to that end.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Brian.
Brian? Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone.
On Slide 9 we've included a summary of our third quarter financial results followed by slides on North America Europe &amp; Med and ROW.
Overall global unit volume in the third quarter excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Latin America was down 2% year-over-year and 4% sequentially principally due to general end-market demand weakness in Europe and Med.
Adjusted operating income of $55 million in the third quarter principally reflects the relative strength of the company's businesses in North America which improved $19 million year-over-year and $9 million sequentially.
While certain of our end markets remain under significant pressure our businesses in North America continue to show signs of improving which is encouraging.
More specifically on Slide 10 in North America adjusted operating income for the third quarter increased $19 million year-over-year principally due to the performance of the company's electric utility construction and rod mill businesses.
Sequentially the increase of $9 million was principally due to the performance of the company's electric utility electrical infrastructure and rod mill businesses.
Overall demand trends remain relatively flat year-over-year on balance but we are capturing opportunities in those businesses previously mentioned along with some of our self-help cost-reduction initiatives including previously announced asset optimization plans and restructuring efforts.
On Slide 11 in Europe &amp; Med.
Putting aside the production and installation activity of the company's turnkey projects we continue to experience relatively broad weakness throughout our flow business as unit volume is down approximately 12% sequentially and year-over-year.
We are focused on our restructuring program having just announced actions that are to be implemented that will help drive the performance improvement of underperforming assets.
The planned actions in Europe are expected to generate $42 million of annual savings once fully completed which represents a substantial improvement more than 2x the region's adjusted operating income over the past 12 months.
Our turnkey project backlog was around $525 million at the end of the third quarter relatively unchanged from the second quarter.
On Slide 12 in ROW adjusted operating income of $11 million in the third quarter improved sequentially principally due to results in Colombia and Thailand as well as the benefit of restructuring efforts in India and Peru.
Year-over-year adjusted operating income improved slightly as a benefit of restructuring efforts in India and Peru and stronger results in the Philippines helped to offset weakness in Thailand.
The geopolitical situation in Thailand has generally improved.
However economic conditions remain challenged and our results continue to lag our earlier expectations.
Turning to the fourth quarter outlook on Slide 13.
The company expects adjusted operating income to be in the range of $40 million to $55 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 principally due to the impact of typical seasonal demand patterns.
While we expect unit volume to be flat to up low single digits this is principally due to shipments of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil.
On Slide 14 for the full year 2014 we expect adjusted operating income to be in the range of $175 million to $190 million.
Global unit volume is expected to be flat to down low single digits year-over-year.
The decrease in our guidance range for adjusted operating income principally reflects the impact of an increasingly uncertain macro environment uneven electrical infrastructure and construction investment throughout Latin America and ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
The company reconfirms its guidance range for adjusted operating cash flow for 2014 of approximately $135 million.
We're pushing hard over the final quarter of the year as we are unwinding seasonal working capital and focusing on inventory reduction targets in each of our business units.
We're also very focused on tightly managing inventory levels as we head into 2015.
On Slide 15 and 16 we've provided a summary of our global liquidity position and our debt maturity profile as of the end of the third quarter.
The company continues to maintain more than adequate liquidity.
We currently have $400 million of availability under our North America and European-based credit facility.
In addition we have $230 million of availability on working capital lines around the world and cash of $165 million excluding $106 million in Venezuela.
Collectively we have approximately $800 million of liquidity in the system to fund operations and support the quarterly dividend the restructuring program and the anticipated retirement of the $125 million senior floating rate notes due in April 2015.
Net debt was $1 359 000 000 at the end of the third quarter of 2014 a decrease of $14 million from the end of the second quarter.
The decrease in net debt was principally due to the reductions in working capital as a result of normal seasonal trends.
Also the company is in the early planning stages but preliminarily is budgeting capital expenditure in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
Before I hand the call back over to Greg we thought it would be useful to provide you with an update as to the current status of our ongoing investigation by our external counsel of certain transactions that may implicate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The investigation is focused on the conduct of our businesses in Angola India and Thailand.
Our outside legal counsel has reviewed over 450 000 documents and interviewed approximately 20 individuals representing most of the interviews they currently intend to complete.
The company disclosed its investigation concerning these matters to the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission and has since cooperated fully and proactively with the agencies and intends to continue to do so.
If there are no significant new developments then we anticipate that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded during the first quarter of 2015.
We currently expect the total cost of performing this investigation to be less than $10 million the majority of which already has been incurred and is reflected in our 9-month results.
We cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the outcome may be and including the amount of any fines or penalties we may ultimately pay.
We already have taken and we continue to take steps to strengthen the company's compliance program.
We have an initiative underway to identify categorize and screen our global third-party sales agents and we have provided anti-corruption training to our global sales force.
Anti-corruption training ultimately will be provided to all salaried employees.
We are actively recruiting a Chief Compliance Officer who will have a reporting relationship with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors as well as the CEO and he will be responsible for the day-to-day management of General Cable's compliance function.
The board and management fully support the enhancement of our practices in this area.
In concluding this discussion these investigations are such that there can be no guarantee that its scope won't change or expand in the future but we wanted to let you know where we were today.
I'll now hand you back to Greg to sum up.
In summary we have a strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure a laser focus on increasing returns in core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
These are regions where we have comparative advantage and concrete plans to further leverage existing assets to reduce costs.
They will also continue to serve global customers as they've always done.
We have made significant progress on our previously announced restructuring plan.
We are in the process of executing our succession plan and adding to our board.
We believe we have substantial opportunities ahead of us and are well-positioned to benefit from future energy infrastructure and construction investment.
While these have been difficult times for the industry I'm optimistic about our future.
Over the years from a modest starting point we built an industry leader.
We have navigated through far tougher times with significantly less resources.
I am encouraged and confident in our plan and our team.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
I guess the assets in Asia and Africa $1 billion of sales.
If you could maybe give us an idea of what may be the trailing EBIT or EBITDA margin has been and maybe what you guys see as really a normalized EBITDA margin for that business? Yes Shawn.
It's Brian.
So these assets have in a number of places as we mentioned on the call have minority partners as well.
So as we said $1 billion of revenue on 100% basis.
The -- what I would -- the way we would describe it is EBITDA over a cycle in the 6% to 7% range which is consistent with a lot of our other businesses and like a lot of our other businesses continuing to move through a challenging environment.
And lastly I would say these businesses -- certain of these businesses are characterized by a higher required capital employed investment.
We tend to get a longer runway or need on carrying inventory and receivables and we end up with payable terms that look a lot like what we have in other parts of the business so the capital employed and the capital investment in these businesses is also higher than what we would normally -- what we'd see in other parts of our business.
Okay.
Very helpful Brian.
Second the $125 million debt maturity.
I know you guys went out to the high-yield market.
That didn't work out as you had planned at that time.
Is there an idea of going back to that? Are there any issues in paying off that debt otherwise with your credit facility lines in terms of features or covenants that would come into issue? Yes Shawn.
The bond offering was an opportunistic thought a way to enter the market.
Unfortunately that week the high-yield market moved or weakened let's call it which made it impossible to get a deal done.
So we're focused on retiring the $125 million notes on the global ABL.
As you saw in our prepared remarks and in our presentation material we have $400 million of availability on that line.
We recently just this week technically amended the agreement to clarify the definition of how that $125 million would be interpreted in the fixed charge coverage.
So we're in very good shape and we're focused on managing the working capital delivering the restructuring.
And I think all things being equal retiring those notes on the revolver.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So maybe following up on that question before.
Just making sure I understand the EPS impact of the anticipated moves in Asia and Africa is it negative neutral positive near-term? And then what's the timing of the hit and/or eventual benefit as we look out? Yes.
Matt it's Brian here.
So the -- we're giving some of the broad framework around the revenue the EBITDA margins over time and the capital employed in these businesses at say around -- at the 100% is about $500 million is the way to frame it.
We're -- as we said in the call we're working through all the various units let's say in terms of a disposition plan.
So we're not ready to give specific details around the ultimate financial outcomes which will depend on how well we do through the process our ability to take say some of the overhead costs throughout the company that look after these operations and reduce those costs as well as really then our ability to get our -- to focus our resources in a laser-like fashion on the core operations.
So Matt I guess that's as far as we're prepared to go with respect to the overall financial outcomes is that we've got the work to do with respect to the plan.
What I would -- and lastly what I would say is again so much of this focus is around simplifying the company reducing the operational complexity and that laser focus on the core operations.
We have talked over time around the $300 million EBIT opportunity in the company and going forward as we said we believe over half the business will be North America for us U.S.
and Canada and that the majority of that $300 million opportunity resides in the businesses that we defined as the core businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was actually going to be my next question.
As you look at the earnings power you might've just answered it but is the earnings power story largely unchanged that you've been telling for the last couple of years? Yes we -- when we get further down the road Matt obviously we'll come back with more specificity around the numbers.
But yes that's what we're saying is the $300 million -- the characteristics that drove the $300 million EBIT opportunity globally we were -- this strategy is around focusing on those -- some of these core markets.
So the same characteristics reside in the core businesses and we'll be laser-focused on achieving those -- that EBIT opportunity.
And as we go further and we announce more details around the disposition plan and the path forward we'll get more precise around this.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And I think a couple of the countries that you're talking about divestitures in they had bribery issues.
I think those were 2 of the countries mentioned there.
What happens to those liabilities if you do divest those businesses? Or is it too early to tell? Yes Matt that's -- the answer is it's too early to tell.
Let's be clear.
I mean from -- with respect to liabilities I think I would call it the uncertainties and the work that's ongoing but it's -- the short answer is it's too early to tell and would be -- it will be part of any sort of discussion and negotiations as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I did have one more question.
As you think about the margin profile of the business it sounds like it should get better.
Can you talk about -- or is there any way to quantify this effort to increase the percent of value-add products that I think Greg you mentioned when you talk -- when you think about what's going to drive the improved profitability how big of a component is just this mix shift towards these higher value-added products? We -- I'm really proud of how far the team's come.
As you know we have a multi-faceted strategy there.
We've taken our data cable business and created a global leader certainly a North American leader in the copper data comm and complementary fiber optics for the local area network.
We see great opportunity in the communications area in Europe and are working hard on opportunity there.
The specialty cables team and industrial team where we use a lot of our science and chemistry have really done a nice job in the U.S.
and in Europe driven a lot by the U.S.
to really build those businesses out and many of those businesses are quite global in nature meaning we follow railcar manufacturers or others as they are around the world.
Our transportation and industrial business which is really aimed at the auto and transportation industries has very done very well complemented by our very fine Prestolite acquisition.
We've got a very substantial oil and gas business at every part of that industry which has seen a little bit of swoon recently but still has very aggressive capital spending relative to historic levels.
We've also seen our turnkey business and you saw a bit of that in the second quarter obviously a lumpier business on the percentage of completion but that's a $300 million or $400 million business where we're viewed as very strong on land and in the specific area in the sea we're also developing our undersea fiber optics business.
So we'll be more specific around that but that work is well underway has been underway.
We're seeing those units stand up tall in General Cable and we have the intellectual capital to go do that.
Those markets vary in size.
And again you know that by and large the largest part of the wire and cable industry are products with less value-added than those and can be more commoditized and certainly more price-driven but that's still a substantial opportunity.
We're really good at that.
A lot of those roots came from BICC which was bought many years ago.
Turned out to be a very fine acquisition and we built upon that.
So I think that's a more precise story we'll tell over time.
But rest assured that we've really come a very long way from -- as an example in the communications area from middle of the market to a leader in that area over a few short years.
So I like that.
Bob Kenny in Europe is a specialist in those areas and he's helping drive that with the team over there.
As you know Bob got there about 6 months ago.
So I'm encouraged.
We'll tell you a sharper story as we have more time but those efforts have been underway well underway and are part of the future strong part of the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> You guys have been back in Venezuela from the adjusted financials for a few quarters now which I guess kind of implies you don't view these as core assets.
Are you considering a process of divesting this position as well? Yes Brent with respect to Venezuela? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Is that the question? Okay.
So Venezuela the way we think about it is we've really put -- as you say we put a box around Venezuela and we're driving it towards a reasonable conclusion.
We expect -- you're right we put the business to the side from a financial reporting perspective.
We expect the business to be around breakeven for 2014.
As we've said before and as we said in the transcript there is about $106 million of cash on the balance sheet in Venezuela.
So we'll continue to watch that very closely but yes I would considerate it I guess notionally as part of that noncore thinking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian I just want to be clear on the restructuring efforts here.
The $130 million in pretax charges related to Europe and Colombia that's in addition to the $200 million you've previously provided.
Is that right? No no.
That's within that $200 million.
So what we're really saying is overall we originally said $200 million of charges and $75 million of savings.
So that $130 million fits into the $200 million.
We are now as we said put -- we're putting -- let's call it "meat on the bones" of the plan.
Right.
So said another way Brent this is Len.
You had said as the $130 million in Q3 and then the $50 million in Q2 so year-to-date or like-to-date on the program we're at the $180 million mark of the $200 million.
And that's cash and noncash but that's the total charges of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just talking about the quarter.
The performance of North America was pretty solid here in terms of profitability.
I guess can you just provide a little more detail on the drivers? That looks like 7.5% profit margin this quarter.
Yes.
Brent a number of factors I think -- and it's a -- which includes -- I mean the key businesses as we mentioned were around electric utility some on the electrical infrastructure side and some in our rod and strip businesses.
So while the volumes were sideways to down in certain businesses we've continued to perform well.
I think we had some pockets of pricing and I would say the actions that we've taken around -- we've already started on cost-out and we've worked hard on and some of the -- unfortunately we had to -- and these aren't easy decisions we had to make.
We made some reductions in force over the summer.
And I think that's starting to bear fruit as well from a number and public reporting perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Going back just quickly to the divestiture of Asia and Africa.
How much of the $75 million in cost-savings target from the restructuring fall within those operations that you're now looking to discontinue -- or to divest I'm sorry? Yes it's a very small right? I mean it's -- it would -- technically I suppose it would just be India.
India would be the only assets that are contemplated.
Yes yes I think Noelle the key is that -- this is why we're very convicted around the plan because I think the focus -- the ability to focus on the core and to have the restructuring primarily focused on the core we think is a compelling path forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I understand you'll give more detail here as you progress but do you have a rough sense of how much of this revenue you're looking to or how much of these operations you're looking to sell as opposed to maybe just kind of wind down or discontinue? Yes we'll give -- you're right Noelle.
We'll give more information as we go.
Our intention would be to sell these assets.
It's not easy.
It's -- these are in Africa and in Asia.
As we said we have important minority partners that we also want to work together on productively that there's substantial value in these assets.
We want to retain that value during the process.
So our intention at this point is to sell the assets.
But as we said we've got to be very precise in our work and in that process.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping you could provide a little bit more detail around cash flow in the quarter.
If you could talk about operating cash flow in the quarter that would be helpful.
And I'm curious how much of the cash restructuring costs you've incurred to date? Yes.
So from an operating cash flow perspective Noelle for the third quarter we should be around $60 million I'll call it adjusted operating cash flow.
Where we -- as you said -- as you saw our target remains $135 million of operating cash flow for the year which means we see a significant Q4 operating cash flow coming.
Order of magnitude in sort of the $170 million to $200 million range and that's primarily driven around the working capital.
So we have -- we're very much focused by unit on first and foremost on inventory reductions.
We took about $20 million of inventory out in the third quarter.
In Q4 we're pushing hard towards $130 million on the inventory side globally.
So meaningful -- so we -- so full year we're still anticipating a meaningful cash flow second half cash flow weighted towards Q4.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at -- just hoping to get a little bit more detail on Europe in terms of the softness you saw in the quarter.
First can you comment on if there were any markets that significantly deviated from your expectations in terms of volume? And then if you -- if there was any particular pricing pressure again whether you want to talk about that by country or by market that would be helpful.
Noelle the biggest obviously is that we've had nice -- team's done a great job at NSW which is our turnkey submarine business and that is a lumpy business as you know and weather-driven.
So you'd expect all things being equal that it -- certain quarters will be better than others because of the temperatures in the North sea et cetera.
So a lot of the second quarter was driven there.
I would say Spain continues to be weaker despite some of the positive headlines.
I think they had some GNP growth again.
And as we've talked about investors are jumping into the housing and other markets.
But I would say Spain from a demand standpoint continues to lag.
I feel good about what we're doing in Europe around the communications cable.
France is solid and net-net I think it's principally Spain though to be clear Europe is -- a lot of competitors have announced restructuring.
There's a lot of stress there and of course the spillover is things are weak in North Africa Turkey and Eastern Europe.
So broadly demand is a late cyclical has been generally weak.
We have some early cycle business there.
So in Europe I think we need to take strong action that helps ourselves because the market recovery if we get it we want to be positioned to enjoy that.
But I see a lot of wonderful technology and niche markets that we're really good at that.
And we get -- continue to get called by customers for their toughest problems.
So yes Europe I would say has been weaker than we thought it would be particularly in Spain.
But I would say this pricing pressure generally in Europe particularly as we get into more commoditized products as there's lots of capacity looking to go to work in the whole region.
Yes.
And I would say -- I would just add a little more on the French side.
Well it's a stable business.
It's a little bit of timing.
So we have I would say a tougher third quarter in France but we expect an improved fourth quarter based on what we can see.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of I guess similar line of questioning on the rest of world segment profitability was better than I was expecting there.
I think obviously restructuring helped but was there any I guess company -- or country-specific improvement or market-specific improvement that also contributed to that growth year-over-year? Yes.
I would say Noelle that you're right.
The benefit -- really what you're seeing is the benefit of actions already taken in India and Peru which were offset by a year-over-year Thai business which has continued to struggle with the geopolitical.
Now the positive side we mentioned in our call that we have not seen the improvement in Thailand come back as quickly as we had thought with respect to the change in government.
But having said that we're starting to see that over the last couple of weeks say month some improving trend lines in Thailand.
So again when we move forward to Q4 we're guardedly optimistic with respect to improvement in Thailand.
We think that that business is -- that things are getting better in the country and getting more stabilized and they're focused on the economy.
More broadly in the other businesses it continues to be -- conditions have remained somewhat challenged right? So Latin America just had the Brazilian election last weekend.
That's now been clarified.
So hopefully that then allows growth and economic activity to return to important markets like Brazil.
But those are the big sort of players and so in the meantime in these businesses we just continue to focus on the execution piece of it the working capital and preparing for the end-market demand.
I would say Noelle we do see some progress.
Things that we can do and have been working on in Mexico Central America Colombia.
Chile obviously is affected by commodities and things but we have a solid business there.
And then in Brazil it's -- transmission is a big piece of their business but we're -- but we've been working at it for a couple of years to add more of the communications cable industrial cables and other things that a developed -- a rapidly developed economy can use.
So we're working on all those fronts and I think we're -- I don't know that the Latin American markets will explode but I certainly see ways that we can help ourselves in clear ways and we're beginning to see come to the fore.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Franklin [ph] from Prudential Financial.
On -- hold on -- the slide -- I think it was Slide 7 -- Slide 15 and 14 the $135 million adjusted operating cash flow.
Can you help us bridge from that to real spending money because looks like you have $40 million in cash right now in North America and you're going to be using the revolver to pay down the maturity in April? So I'm trying to figure out how close you're getting here.
Yes.
Bob.
It's Brian Robinson.
I think when -- couple of things when you look at the business we have to -- that I would draw your attention to right? So we've come -- part of this is a normal seasonal working capital swings in the business.
So our expectation is that as we go -- as we said as we go through Q4 we'll have the cash generation from the unwind of the working capital.
And as we move into 2015 as we said we're very focused on the -- pushing very hard on not increasing inventory levels right and making sure that we're very tight on the working capital.
So when we look forward as we said we've got this $800 million of global liquidity.
I would say to frame it then where I think we have to watch it the closest would be say mid-summer of 2015 absent some x -- absent say refinancing or going to the public markets.
And I think that pushes that $800 million with -- if we're retiring the notes on the ABL would push that to say kind of a -- and with the restructuring to kind of a $600 million global liquidity number.
Keep in mind too next year Bob as we said on the CapEx side we see that at $40 million to $50 million so we're pushing very hard on the CapEx as well.
And then we continue to have a very attractive -- very favorable low cash tax rate in the U.S.
Okay.
So from the $135 million for 2014 what are the subtractions from that to get it to real cash flow? Are you taking out the CapEx from there? Say again Bob.
I'm sorry.
What gets you from $135 million on Page 14 to real money? The $135 million is an adjusted operating number.
Correct correct.
So it's -- if it were showing up on a cash flow statement what would the real number be? It would be in that -- as operating -- again this is pre-CapEx Bob.
So it would end up -- that's basically operating cash flow.
That would be then used to repay...
Okay.
But you've got adjustments in there too.
We've got some adjustments in there as well.
I think Noelle asked earlier.
I think on the restructuring side the cash that we spent to date is -- it's order of magnitude maybe I don't know $10 million? Part of the working capital in some these operations like in India and the Peru wind-down it gets a little hard to parse that precisely but that's sort of the round numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Couple of clarifications.
Just the assets that you're looking to sell.
They are profitable currently correct? Shawn I would say generally they are.
Keep in mind and I'll mention one that we've talked a lot about.
So it's Thailand for example right? So we've had a business that historically has made $20 million to $25 million of EBIT but that has struggled over the last 3 or 4 quarters because of the geopolitical.
But -- and we've also talked -- and I just talked about where that business is going.
So it -- a lot of these businesses look a lot like a lot of our other businesses or our global businesses where they can be explosive in both directions.
So as I said the characteristic of these businesses is an EBITDA margin over a cycle in that 6% to 7% kind of range.
Okay.
Second what was the copper that you used or the copper amount the price per pound for the third quarter not the fourth? It was $3.16 on average for Q3 and then $3.11 on the out-period for Q4.
Okay.
And then 2 final questions.
Just to clarify.
You -- the cash actually out the door related to the restructuring so far has only been $10 million of the $80 million.
So you'll face fourth quarter into 2015 another $70 million outflow related to that? Yes we've got -- as far the 2 announcements we've made so far represent about $52 million of the total cash.
So what we'll see is a bit on the out-period.
But yes so order of magnitude probably $10 million to $20 million like today.
Okay.
And then finally Greg and Brian we talked about Thailand a bit in terms of your view at least of getting a bit better.
Not asking to give '15 guidance but are there any signs out there that we should expect a different environment in '15 on the macro level not what you're doing internally to drive volumes but on the macro basis that volumes are flat to down again? Are you talking about as a company or is it putting aside Thailand? Putting aside the $1 billion of revenues that are available for sale.
Thinking about North America your core Europe assets or Brazil from a macro basis is there something to tell us that the market should be up in '15? Yes Shawn.
I guess the way we thought about it on a macro basis in North America absent again a breakout we see it putting it all together is sort of flat-to-up low single digits.
In Europe as we -- it's a little tough to read right now.
You see some of the macro headwinds.
We mentioned for example the -- on the -- in our French business a tougher third quarter but we see a positive fourth quarter.
So it's still a bit mix.
So call that maybe sideways.
And in LatAm as I said I think with now let's call it for lack of a better word clarity around the election in Brazil.
Obviously as construction and infrastructure spend go so goes General Cable for the most part.
So we obviously -- as you rightly pointed out we're doing a lot to help ourselves but we need that end-market demand.
And then I would say sort of northern Latin America for lack of a better word can tie into -- ultimately ties into and is driven by a lot of the U.S.
and North American activities.
So again we're doing a lot to help ourselves and so call those markets again in that same zip code as sort of the flat-to-up low single digits.
And Shawn I'm watching also the -- distributors are -- about 40% of our business that's through distributors are channel partner.
As you well know and I'm seeing some mix as slightly positive.
We saw the Anixter results I think Rexel just announced.
It's sort of a mixed story.
But I think consistent with what we're seeing some positive movement in North America particularly the U.S.
The other big piece of our business about 35% of global is utilities and we watch energy demand and their rate cases.
And it's again way off from where we were say 10 years ago but we do see transmission is generally stronger and of course we have wind which has been -- wasn't there 10 years ago.
So I'm watching a lot of the industrial infrastructure companies like Fluor Foster Wheeler others watching the utilities what they're saying and then finally the distributors.
But I think it's -- what we're seeing is fairly consistent with what you're reading on a macro.
But we're generally except for some of our earlier cycle businesses which is part of the company but for the most part we're trailing happy news by some quarters as we watch those things.
We have no further questions.
I would now like to turn our call back over to General Cable.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.