Good morning.
My name is Salina and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Brian will first provide comments on our fourth quarter results.
Greg will then update you on our strategic initiatives leadership transition plans and our first quarter outlook followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our safe harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted results in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #4.
I will now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning everyone.
Overall we are pleased with the strong finish to the year.
We generated adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS in line with our guidance range for the fourth quarter.
Our business in North America remains a source of stability and we continue to execute in our European-based submarine turnkey project business.
We further strengthened our liquidity position as we generated $212 million of adjusted operating cash flow for the full year 2014 and collected cash proceeds of $67 million for the sale of our interest in the Philippines.
Also as Greg will elaborate on shortly we're making significant progress on our strategic initiatives including both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
On Slide 4 unit volume in the fourth quarter excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil was up 2% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
Demand for Electric Utility distribution cables and specialty products in North America more than offset typical seasonal demand patterns and general end market weakness experienced throughout Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $46 million in the fourth quarter principally reflects the relative strength of the company's businesses in North America which improved $4 million year-over-year while significantly reducing inventory.
On Slide 5 in North America adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter increased $4 million year-over-year principally due to the performance of the company's specialty cables business as well as the benefit of restructuring initiatives.
Sequentially adjusted operating income decreased $13 million due to the impact of seasonal demand patterns and planned factory shutdowns.
Overall demand trends remain relatively stable year-over-year as we were capturing important opportunities in key businesses.
We're focused on our self-help cost reduction initiatives.
On Slide 6 in Europe adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter increased $7 million sequentially principally due to the performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business.
We are pleased with the strong performance of this business over the past year as well as our land turnkey project business.
Today our project backlog is around $425 million.
Overall however we continue to experience weakness throughout our flow businesses as unit volume was down approximately 11% year-over-year.
We remain focused on our restructuring program as the announced actions in Europe are expected to generate in the range of $40 million of annual savings which represents more than 3x the region's adjusted operating income over the past 12 months.
On Slide 7 in Latin America adjusted operating income over the second half of 2014 reflects the benefit of restructuring initiatives as well as improved results in Colombia and Central America.
While we shipped significant aerial transmission cables and medium-voltage distribution cables for wind projects in Brazil during the fourth quarter demand throughout Latin America remains uneven as construction spending and GDP growth rates which drives demand for our products continues to be weak throughout the region.
On Slide 8 9 and 10 we've provided a summary of our adjusted operating cash flow debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the fourth quarter.
We are pleased with the strong management of working capital through year end as we generated $212 million of adjusted operating cash flow for the full year of 2014.
We exceeded our expectations for working capital efficiency principally due to the achievement of inventory reduction targets which generated approximately $200 million of cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Net debt of $1 162 000 000 was down $197 million from the third quarter due to lower seasonal working capital requirements and the use of cash proceeds generated from the sale of the company's interest in the Philippines to reduce outstanding borrowings.
On Slide 10 the company continues to maintain strong liquidity.
We currently have $425 million of availability under our North American and European-based credit facility.
In addition we have approximately $120 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American business excluding $30 million in Venezuela.
Collectively we have approximately $570 million of liquidity in the system to fund our core operations in North America Europe and Latin America as well as support the quarterly dividend restructuring program and the anticipated retirement of the $125 million senior floating-rate notes due in April of this year.
Also the company has budgeted capital expenditure in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
On Slide 11 in Venezuela we adopted the SICAD II currency exchange rate of 50 bolivars per U.S.
dollar to remeasure our local balance sheet which resulted in a reported loss of $91 million in the fourth quarter.
We also incurred noncash charges of approximately $34 million principally for the impairment of property plant and equipment in Venezuela.
After moving to SICAD II there remains approximately $30 million of cash in Venezuela on the balance sheet.
Going forward we will continue to manage Venezuela to the best possible economic outcome and we will continue to exclude Venezuela from our discussion of core operations and financial position.
Next we have recast our reportable segments to align with our current management structure.
We now have 4 reportable segments consisting of North America Latin America Europe and Asia Pacific and Africa.
This presentation aligns with our strategy of portfolio simplification and further enhances the visibility of our core operations.
Before handing the call over to Greg I wanted to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA-related investigation.
The general scope of our internal investigation remains broadly consistent with our past disclosures.
Nonetheless the nature of these types of investigations is such that the exact timing required to complete an FCPA-related investigation is challenging to predict and is driven by many factors.
Some of these factors such as the availability of witnesses and the work of third parties including forensic accountants are outside the company's control.
While we previously anticipated concluding our internal investigation during the first quarter of 2015 we now believe subject to any new developments that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded later in this calendar year.
As we've stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
We also cannot guarantee that the scope of this ongoing investigation will not change or expand in the future as it unfolds.
As we have said before any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines civil and criminal penalties and equitable remedies including disgorgement and injunctive relief.
Separately we continue to make progress enhancing our global compliance program.
And since our last call we have recruited and brought on board an experienced Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors as well as the CEO and who is responsible for the day-to-day management of General Cable's compliance function.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Good morning and thanks Brian.
As we've summarized on slides 12 through 14 our focus is on maximizing the value in the current global environment by simplifying our portfolio reducing operational complexity and delivering improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
To that end we're making significant progress on both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
First on our restructuring program.
We've moved quickly with the sale of our interest in the Philippines which generated cash proceeds of $67 million at the end of last year a significant step.
Equally encouraging is the strong interest we've received thus far for the assets both in Africa and Asia Pacific.
The value of these businesses is high as evidenced by the strong interest and range of suitors.
We are fully engaged with our outside advisers and are extremely pleased with our progress.
Next on our restructuring program on slides 13 and 14.
With the fourth quarter announcement of planned actions in North America and Latin America we've now substantially -- that we have now announced substantially all planned initiatives as originally outlined in July 2014.
We've made tremendous progress since we began the program 7 months ago.
The commitment and focus of our teams has enabled us to act quickly and decisively as we focus on improving the performance of our core operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're targeting approximately $75 million of annual savings with approximately $30 million to $40 million of incremental savings targeted for 2015.
Overall we are focusing on our core markets where we can leverage economies of scale and capitalize on leading positions across key markets.
We've built long-standing customer relationships efficient supply chains and offer a broad range of products.
And we will continue to serve our global customers with higher value-added products and services as we've always done.
This will allow us to focus on building out our expanding position in turnkey projects communications transportation industrial and specialty cables in markets that are generally more willing to pay for high quality and at times application-specific products.
At the same time and due to the ongoing difficult operating environment most recently characterized by the impact of volatile metal prices and lower oil prices we are continuing to carefully evaluate further restructuring actions in our core operations.
Turning to Slide 15.
As a result of our board-led search to identify my successor as CEO we've engaged numerous candidates in the process.
The progress thus far is consistent with our expectations and continues to advance.
Once the successor is identified I'm prepared to stay involved in whatever manner necessary to assist the new CEO and board during this time of transition and sale of our manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific and Africa.
Turning to the first quarter outlook on Slide 16.
Our first quarter outlook excludes results from Venezuela Asia Pacific and Africa.
The company expects adjusted operating income of its core operations consisting of North America Latin America and Europe to be in the range of $10 million to $25 million for the first quarter of 2015.
Our first quarter outlook assumes unit volume is down mid-single digits sequentially due to typical seasonal demand patterns.
The first quarter is typically our slowest period of the year due to lower construction activity principally due to seasonal weather and extended holidays.
We are also assuming a $15 million to $20 million headwind in the first quarter due to the impact of selling higher average cost inventory in a lower metal price environment.
However if this lower metal price environment persists we would expect to generate cash as our investment in working capital declines.
While we cannot clearly -- while we clearly cannot control macroeconomic factors I'm very pleased with our progress on what we can control including our divestiture program and further cost reduction opportunities.
We have a strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure our laser-focus on increasing returns on core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're executing on our plan and we're making significant progress in a very short period of time.
We're also in the process of executing our succession plan and adding to our board.
We believe we've made substantial opportunity -- we have substantial opportunities ahead of us and we're committed to generating returns that exceed our cost of capital over a cycle and plan to aggressively manage our core strategic assets to that end.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison.
Brian I guess the first thing I was hoping you could help me out with is just bridging the cash balance here at the end of the year versus what was highlighted in the presentation.
And then also as we look ahead maybe do you have an expectation for cash flow from operations for the year? And if so could you please share that? Sure sure Shawn.
So the cash on the balance sheet is about $205 million $206 million.
And I think if you go to Slide 10 in the investor deck the pieces are -- the table is just the core operations right? So $74 million of cash.
And then you see in the footnote there's about $102 million in the non-core operations.
So that $74 million plus $102 million plus $30 million in Venezuela is the balance sheet the $206 million on the balance sheet.
And then so Shawn with respect to 2015 we're not -- as you can see when we've looked at that all the moving pieces we brought our guidance into a quarter at a time.
So I'm going to avoid giving a full 2015 cash flow forecast.
But what I would say is clearly we exceeded our expectations in Q4 very strong cash flow.
We are able to use the cash plus the divestiture proceeds to reduce debt.
And as we look forward to '15 you can see we talked a little bit about so far broadly -- and we'll talk in more detail here I'm sure around the business broadly volumes broadly sideways let's say.
And metals have come down right? And so we should all things being equal that if metals stay down metal prices will -- we should expect to see a nice cash flow benefit.
But ordinary course I think working capital in 2015 again given our over-delivery or exceeding our expectations in Q4 there's probably some opportunity on working capital.
But like I said it's probably in the -- maybe up to $50 million of more working capital in a steady state.
Shawn the other thing I want to point out is this is Greg we did say that CapEx would be in the $40 million to $50 million range for the company.
And that would be less than half of depreciation.
Got you.
And I guess a couple of follow-ups just given the shift in the -- to exclude a couple aspects of the business model but maybe what is your metal exposure right now going to be going forward? And I know you used to provide another number but shifting out Asia Pac and Africa just kind of your annual maybe copper and aluminum exposure if you can provide that.
And also just kind of what core operating expenses tax rate looks like going forward on the core? Yes Shawn so on the core operating expenses I think maybe you're referring to the core sort of run rate on selling general and admin? Yes.
Yes okay.
Yes so we're doing a lot of work and we're continuing to look at everything including combinations of work and the like.
But I would say at this point in a steady state on the core SG&amp;A maybe in the let's call it in the $350 million to $400 million range.
On the tax rate I think we continue let's say probably still in that 35% to 40% range but migrating down as we continue with both the disco ops and the restructuring.
We get some of -- we get this noise out of many of these operations where we've got these full valuation allowances against the tax assets.
So let's call it 35% to 40% but migrating down.
And in terms of metal exposure Shawn I guess overall we've talked about a first -- a 1Q metal headwind in the $15 million to $20 million range.
I would say even in our core operations our markets our end markets and our selling prices can behave differently depending upon where we are onto the demand and the utilization curve.
So I guess what I would say is in terms of looking forward around metal volatility I would almost sort of do a pro rata reduction for the Asian and African businesses coming out.
So we've said that's what 15% to 20% of revenue base? So Shawn that's kind of how I would think about it.
Okay.
I guess the 15% to 20% is that the reason why that headwind was maybe a little bit lower than you would have seen previously given such a precipitous drop in copper prices? Yes Shawn it's maybe -- yes Shawn I would [ph] be part of it.
But I would say actually it's more around -- well actually other contributing factors let's say include -- as we said we had a good synergy in our North American business and the volumes remain quite stable.
So I would say there is some positive news on the core business which helps.
And then I would say the other piece of it is just some of the I'll call it the way that some of the Latin markets work and the European markets in terms of our ability to pass along price.
So I see those are all contributing factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman.
Research Division</strong> Can you just update us on what you're planning to do in terms of addressing the upcoming April 2015 notes? Do you plan on using the facility or try to go back to the market? Yes Brent.
Obviously we'll be very careful here.
But our intention as we've said for quite some time is to use the revolver and you can see from the cash generation and the way that we're really laser-focused on the working capital management that we're in a very good place to do that.
And that's -- so our intention is to use the revolver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian under SICAD II I guess you'll look at the currency impact every quarter just based on whatever that floating rate is.
Is that the right way to think about it? That's correct.
That's correct yes.
So yes as we -- in the -- as you saw in the comments -- and we've been saying for a while right that we had this remaining risk around the balance sheet in the Venezuela balance sheet.
So you're going to the SICAD II rate.
There's about $30 million left of cash on the balance sheet.
And we'll continue to watch that Brent very very very closely.
And the final question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> First it looks like NSW had a strong contribution in the quarter.
Can you talk about what happened in that business maybe how much it contributed in the fourth quarter and then how you're looking at the business for fiscal '15? Yes.
Noelle no you're correct.
The NSW business is performing very well.
And as you can see from the results it's a business that can be -- it's more than -- even more than our other businesses nonlinear let's call it.
So you see in fact in Europe on an adjusted basis we lost money in Q3.
And then in Q4 we had a return to profitability and much of that's driven by the NSW business.
So I can't give you the -- I'm not going to give you the specific profitability of NSW but what I would say is when we broadly -- when you broadly look at Europe NSW is doing very well meaningful contributor to the quarter.
And as we said the business is -- I'll call it the flow business is in Spain and France a little more challenged but again a lot of activity happening in those markets as well in terms of cost containment and reduction.
Noelle I'd add that the NSW team great leadership and they've done a nice job really moving into the -- which is a traditional business of submarine fiber optics.
And then of course the offshore work is lumpy in terms of projects won but they're working hard on really getting a nice spread of activities.
And looking further forward it looks like a nice group of projects to go ahead and bid on in the '16 '17 '18 timeframe.
So I'm encouraged by the leadership and the position.
And then they've done a really nice job on installation work as well as deep into the completion of window of work on some of the big projects we won.
So nice progress and able to contribute strongly but not linear and obviously on the North Sea now which is the bulk of the activity.
There's very little going on with the weather so that creates a little bit of a lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in North America it looks like you saw a nice uptick in electric distribution market in the quarter.
I'm wondering if that was kind of just maybe utilities flushing out their budget before year end or if you think you're starting to see a more fundamental improvement in that market? And then secondly can you address how much exposure you have in North America to the oil and gas markets? And if you saw any sort of slowdown there in the quarter? Yes I think you've put your hand on a trend we're watching.
As you know from some of the prior conference calls that North American distribution which was always pretty -- this is the medium voltage cables used by the utilities was always plus or minus 10% or 15% from a median.
And we saw that market fall almost by half from say the last recession 2001 2003 offset a little bit by the wind which is some of the same types of cables.
But when you talk about pure utility distribution it was way off and we've now reported a couple of years of 3% kind of growth from a very low and sort of never seen bottom.
And actually I'm encouraged.
I think the team is.
We saw people as spend money at the end of the year it looks like people are going after maintenance items.
I think they can get a return of the utilities on this investment which obviously had helped drive transmission demand up nicely over the last 5 years.
So we're watching but it feels better and we did have a nice end to the quarter.
So I think not yet a trend but maybe it might accelerate but we have to see.
We've only -- it's still early but it has been ticking up now for a couple of years but very slowly surprisingly slowly.
On the oil and gas sorry Noelle I -- about 7% of our ongoing business is -- this is the core operations as we call it is tied to offshore drilling offshore production onshore drilling onshore production and then a variety of submersible cables.
And we would -- and this is business that is obviously some of the most demanding cable types for very harsh environments.
And it's a business that you can use sometimes the equipment for other things but we expect to have a headwind in that business as people cut back.
Again they haven't cut back on the production side but they're cutting back on the exploration side.
So we would expect that to be a headwind in 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple more questions.
You maybe reticent to talk about this but just given the update on the Asian-African assets and moving forward with that sale maybe you could talk a little bit about the timing.
I know you said it could take up to 2 years.
Do you think some things could happen here in the near term? And any update on how you're thinking about just the potential proceeds from a very high level would be helpful.
Yes I mean there's -- we're encouraged by the interest on certain core assets.
We have engaged Standard Chartered and HSBC -- I'm sorry Brian.
No what I was -- we're doing very well.
As I said we've -- as Greg's alluding to we've got advisers signed up in all the jurisdictions high level of interest.
It's -- we cannot say with precision but we're feeling let's say very positive and the Philippines was a tremendous early start.
In terms of application of proceeds right now again we would see -- our priority remains around debt reduction managing the working capital tightly.
And so let's see how we do.
Again we're on a very very good path but we don't control all the pieces.
So the other piece -- I want to come back to on Shawn's question around the metal headwind the other contributing factor which is an important factor is the inventory levels.
So the reduction in inventory levels we should take credit for that because the team really did a tremendous job in Q4.
And that helps to alleviate some of that headwind the lower inventory levels.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have one last question which is just that given the decline in the stock price the dividend yield has sort of risen to about 6.5%.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about the dividend at this point? It sounds like you're pretty committed to it but maybe if you could just update us on your thinking? Yes absolutely.
We're committed to it.
We think about it as a -- we've described it as 30% to 40% of our adjusted net income in terms of the payout ratio.
Obviously the dividend alone is well ahead of that.
So I think it continues to be something that we're very committed to.
And then again we've demonstrated the strong cash flow the strong discipline around the working capital.
So we'll continue to watch everything very very closely Noelle but the punchline is we're very committed to it.
And the next question comes from Shawn Harrison.
Just a couple of questions on the restructuring.
So $40 million is tied to Europe.
How much now is -- of that remaining $35 million is associated with North America versus Latin America? Yes.
Shawn this is Len.
I'd say you're probably looking maybe $20 million to $25 million in the North American business and then the balance would fall into principally our Latin business.
Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up on that with Latin America profitability below where I'm guessing you'd like it to be and the comment on additional restructuring I mean what would be a target margin for that business as we look 18 months out? And if you can -- if you do announce further restructuring would we expect to hear about that within the next 3 to 6 months? Yes.
Shawn it's Brian.
I would say we're doing a lot to help ourselves obviously.
And so the challenge as we -- as you saw or heard in our prepared remarks is a lot around the end markets.
So challenging conditions overall in LATAM.
But we would say and we're obviously pushing for is the businesses that look get back to that over a cycle sort of mid-single digit EBIT margin or even better actually.
Whether that happens in 18 months again a lot of that's going to be out of our control with the things in our control.
As we described it controlling the controllables is absolutely where we're focused.
With respect to anything else we might do in the timing there we're again carefully evaluating the number of ideas.
And so again to predict the timing I don't want to get out in front of that.
But all I can -- as you can see we're on this path of execution and we just wanted to -- the point the very important point is we continue to examine everything that we're doing very very carefully.
Okay.
And then I guess 2 follow-up questions.
Just the -- I guess as you move to the credit facility the $125 million what would be the expected change in interest expense per quarter? And then second I guess Venezuela why now move to SICAD II? Yes.
On the interest expense Shawn it's broadly a push.
The floating-rate notes are 230 basis points over LIBOR.
And going on to the ABL it's in the same area code.
So it's not a big difference.
And with respect to Venezuela again everything is facts and circumstances.
You follow a lot of other companies that have gone -- that have been impacted by Venezuela some even going as far as what they call deconsolidation.
So for us it's really -- you can -- you start with sort of the macro which you see in the press everyday with respect to the conditions on the ground.
And then for us as General Cable we drill it into -- we've got a significant input cost which is copper.
And so again our facts and circumstances at this point led us to an accounting conclusion to go to the SICAD II rate.
We are very plugged into it.
We will continue as we said to manage it to the best possible economic outcome and continue to call out Venezuela just so you all have visibility to it.
Okay.
And just finally on that so there's a $30 million amount of cash sitting in Venezuela.
Are the assets totally written down to 0 or what is the value of the assets now in Venezuela that you have on the books? Yes.
Yes that's right Shawn the $30 million is broadly cash.
So the 130-some-odd million dollar overall charge for Venezuela had 2 pieces to it.
One was the monetary assets we wrote down.
The other piece was the impairment of the fixed assets or the property plant and equipment.
And the PP&amp;E now is written down to 0 or is there...
Yes to be 0 -- it's 0.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available later today on our website.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.