Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I’ll be your conference facilitator.
I’d like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should anyone have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers’ remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our Web site at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Brian will first provide comments on our first quarter results.
Greg will then update you on our strategic initiatives leadership transition plans and our second quarter outlook followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide 2 as we will refer to adjusted results in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide 4.
I’ll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning everyone.
Overall we are pleased with the strong start to the year.
We are executing our strategic plan driving performance improvement in our core operations tightly managing working capital and reducing debt.
Our first quarter results reflect the Company’s ability to capture and execute on project activity and key businesses in Europe and North America.
We generated $80 million of cash in the first quarter through the management of working capital in our core operations building on the strong cash flow generated at the end of 2014.
We also reduced net debt by $108 million and maintained availability of $391 million under our North American and European based credit facility after retiring the $125 million senior floating rate notes.
Also as Greg will elaborate on shortly we continue to make significant progress on our strategic initiatives including both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
On Slide 4 net sales for the first quarter were flat year-over-year and down 8% sequentially on a metal adjusted basis which included unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements of $97 million and $62 million respectively.
Excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil and restructuring actions in Europe year-over-year unit volume in the first quarter was up 3% principally due to demand for electric utility distribution cables and rod and strip products in North America.
Sequentially unit volume was down 6% principally due to weakness throughout Latin America and typical seasonality.
Adjusted operating income of $48 million reflects a strong performance of the European submarine turnkey project business and continued stability in North America.
The first quarter also reflects the benefit of restructuring savings which we estimate was in the range of $8 million.
These results were partially offset by the impact of selling higher weighted average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment which we estimate was in the range of $5 million to $10 million.
The metal cost headwind was lower than expected as copper prices increased in the later part of the quarter.
Other expense of $25 million principally reflects the adoption of the SIMADI currency exchange system in Venezuela and remeasurement of the local balance sheet at 193 Bolivars per U.S dollar which resulted in an expense of $22 million.
We will continue to manage Venezuela to the best possible economic outcome and continue to exclude Venezuela from our discussion of core operations and financial position.
On Slide 5 North America remains a source of ongoing stability.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter reflects the Company’s ability to capture project activity in the electric utility distribution and telecommunication businesses as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
These trends more than offset seasonal demand patterns and the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment.
On Slide 6 in Europe adjusted operating income for the first quarter reflects the strong production and contract service activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
End market demand in Spain and France also improved sequentially during the first quarter albeit at relatively low levels.
We are pleased with the continued performance of our submarine turnkey project business a project backlog including both subsea and land.
It was $325 million at the end of the first quarter.
On Slide 7 overall demand in Latin America remains uneven due to weak construction spending and GDP growth rates.
However adjusted operating income for the first quarter improved year-over-year due to the benefit of restructuring actions.
On Slide 8 and 9 we provided a summary of our debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the end of the first quarter.
Net debt of 1 054 million was down $108 million from the first quarter due to the continued tight management of working capital which generated $80 million of cash in our core operations.
We also applied cash proceeds of $21 million from the sale of the Company’s interest in joint ventures in Fiji and China to reduce outstanding borrowings.
On Slide 9 we currently have $391 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility after retiring a $125 million senior floating rate notes.
In addition we’ve over $110 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American businesses excluding $8 million of cash in Venezuela.
Collectively we’ve $530 million of liquidity in the system to fund our core operations in North America Europe and Latin America as well as support the quarterly dividend and restructuring program.
Also the Company has budgeted capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
We are well positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
Before handing the call over to Greg I wanted to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA related investigation.
The general scope of our internal investigation remains broadly consistent with our past disclosures and we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded later in this calendar year.
As we’ve stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the FCC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome maybe including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
We also cannot guarantee that the scope of this ongoing investigation will not change or expand in the future as it unfolds.
As we’ve said before any determination that our operations or activities that are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines civil and criminal penalties and equitable remedies including disgorgement and injunctive relief.
In February of this year based on the analysis completed at that time with the assistance of our external counsel and forensic accountants we concluded that we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of profit derived from sales made to Angolan government and public utilities that we believe are likely to ultimately bid the discourse in connection with our ongoing investigation.
As a result we recorded an estimated charge in the amount of $24 million as an accrual as of December 31 2014.
The accrued amount reflects only an estimate of the Angola related profit is reasonably likely to be disgorged and does not include a provision for any fines civil or criminal penalties or other relief.
There has been no change in the amount of accruals since it was put in place in February.
With those comments I’ll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Good morning and thanks Brian.
As we've summarized on Slides 10 through 13 we are executing on our strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
First on our divestiture program.
We continue to build on the momentum generated at the end of 2014 which include the sale of our interest in the Philippines for cash proceeds of $67 million.
During the first quarter we complete the sale of our interest in joint ventures in Fiji and China for cash proceeds of $21 million.
We are fully engaged with our outside financial advisors and are actively managing the sale process of the remaining assets throughout Asia Pacific and Africa.
Next on our restructuring program on Slides 11 and 12.
In the first quarter we announced incremental restructuring actions aimed at further SG&amp;A cost reductions and asset optimization in North America and Europe.
We expect these incremental actions to result in a one-time pre-tax charge in the range of $25 million including approximately $15 million of cash and an annual savings of $15 million.
We continue to make progress on the restructuring initiatives originally announced in July 2014 which represents an estimated annual savings of $75 million.
Collectively we are now targeting $90 million in annual savings from restructuring activities.
We are targeting incremental savings for 2015 in the range of $30 million to $40 million with the remaining balance of restructuring savings to be realized in 2016.
In the first quarter we estimate the benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $8 million.
Turning to Slide 13 the search to identify my successor as CEO continues to progress under close management of our outside directors.
We are conducting a thorough search and have met with numerous qualified candidates.
Once a successor is identified I remain committed to ensuring a smooth transition for the new CEO.
Turning to the second quarter outlook on Slide 14 the Company expects adjusted operating income of its core operations consisting of North America Latin America and Europe to be in the range of $40 million to $55 million.
Our second quarter outlook assumes low single-digit unit volume improvement sequentially.
Overall we expect the impact of normal seasonal demand incremental restructuring savings and subsiding metal costs headwinds to offset the impact of lower project activity in our European submarine turnkey project business as well as our electric utility distribution and telecommunications businesses in North America.
Our second quarter outlook excludes results from Venezuela Asia-Pacific and Africa.
We remain committed to our strategy of simplifying our portfolio reducing organizational complexity and increasing returns on strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We have generated significant moment in our core markets where we are leveraging economies of scale and capitalizing on leading positions in key end markets.
We have announced incremental cost reduction and asset optimization actions in North America and Europe and continue to evaluate further opportunities to drive efficiencies.
We believe these actions are improving both our near-term performance as well as positioning us for long-term success in our core operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
We are confident in our strategic plans to optimize our business reduce costs and drive efficiencies.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The Q2 outlook doesn’t suggest kind of a typical seasonal step up in revenue and earnings you tended to see in the past.
And I was wondering that there was any sort of pull forward in project activity in the Q1 that might helped you? Yes that's a great question.
We actually have gotten -- made nice progress on existing projects in the North Sea under percentage of completion accounting and that was a bit of a pull forward as well as some of the -- we're seeing some strong wind activity in the first quarter which are generally project specific and of course the transmission side is always lumpy.
You're right typically we see a little bit of a pickup in the second quarter versus the first.
We continue to run the business lean and we will -- we look for that pickup and try to go get it.
But right now we can see the projects moving a bit which is basically good news.
Sure.
And then it looks like all the major product lines from a sales perspective were down year-on-year except communications.
Can you just talk about what you saw on that piece of the business? In the communications we continue -- that’s a big and important part of the company historically.
It's depending on how you define the signaling.
It's a business that's in the $700 million $800 million range globally.
We have really worked hard on the data cable which was which includes copper and fiber.
We’ve seen some strength there.
We’ve actually seen a bit of strength again at very low levels on the copper telephone cable business which is a historic business that's been under attack from other technology source really a replacement business but that was a bit stronger in the first quarter.
And I would say a lot of the work we are doing from an innovation side of things has been focused on the communications cable business so we have come a very long way.
We have also seen for some of our micro sheath designs in Europe just fiber optics very nice demand as well.
So lots of focus on our communications.
I think it's paying dividends and that market is we have a important position.
I think we are viewed as a leader in terms of the development and it's paying some nice dividends for us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
This is Reuben in for Matt.
Good morning Reuben.
Good morning.
On the restructuring savings you said you’ve recognized $8 million in the first quarter and are anticipating $30 million to $40 million for the year.
Can you talk about the $8 million versus what you had expected going into Q1 and maybe how to think about progression of the $30 million to $40 million over the rest of the year? How much is baked into your guidance for Q2 and maybe Q3 and Q4 to think about? Sure.
So I’d say that the savings are generally what we expected in Q1.
When we -- I will answer the question may be in terms of half of the year so I’d say there will be a greater weighting of the savings in the second half of the year.
And so second quarter I see this stay consistent with the first quarter.
So we continue work through the whole -- the entire process.
It's a very important process particularly in our operations in Europe.
But as know we’re pleased that we’re generally on track with what we said -- where we started back in July 14 and that’s how I see it falling in 2015.
Okay.
And some of the labor negotiations that you have going on in Europe is some of that savings baked into that $30 million and $40 million for the backup or is that kind of icing on the cake if it happens? No it's all baked in.
Okay.
And then I guess on top of to that point SG&amp;A this quarter I think we had in the $76 million or $78 million range.
Can you kind of talk about what may be a normal run rate is for the rest of the year X the Asia-Pacific and Africa? Yes I was going to say Reuben that.
The number you quoted there is the excluding -- those operations so that 70 I think you said $76 million.
Right.
Yes I think that's an appropriate run rate.
I'd say we -- again we are very pleased with the strategic direction we are on.
We are -- as you can tell from our comments we are working very hard with the divestiture or working very hard in the restructuring and working very hard on the base business.
And part and parcel of that has been the focus on SG&amp;A and cost efforts.
And so I think what we're seeing in the first quarter is in many ways a combination of many of those efforts.
So a strong performance in the business and I think it’s really shown the explosiveness in the operating model.
But yes Reuben I’d say the run rate on SG&amp;A is -- again it would be plus or minus but its -- we’re moving towards this order of magnitude.
Okay perfect.
And then on the gross margin line it looks like you outperformed what we were expecting and what the street was expecting.
How do we think about what that level is going to be like for the rest of the year especially with copper kind of improving here lately can you give us any idea what to look for? Yes.
I think it’s -- I think what Greg mentioned earlier and we talked about a very strong first quarter.
And as we move into the second quarter there are number of items which are in our favor and there are some things that are -- that present some headwinds.
So it's hard to give you precise direction but I would -- surely echo I would echo Greg’s comments around what we're seeing on the electric utility spent.
I think the importance of the German offshore submarine power cable business I think tremendous credit to that team who has continued to execute very well.
So I would say -- and again with the rise in metal prices you get some distortion on the margin profile.
But so you would have to factor that into your modeling but again a strong start as we move into the rest of the year I would say we will continue to focus on these priorities.
Okay.
And did you quantify how much of the benefit -- I know the European submarine business is called out several times did you quantify how much of the benefit that you thought that was this quarter relative to what you were expecting? We didn’t.
But I would say the way the business is falling in both in terms of the work and in some of the percentage of completion accounting is we see it as say mid teens kind of EBIT margin in the first half of the year.
And so that's how I describe it.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I apologize if I missed this at the very beginning of the call.
It took me a while to get logged on.
But you mentioned in your materials that the copper headwind in the quarter was less than you were forecasting.
So it looks like maybe below that $15 million to $20 million level.
Can you just quantify what the headwind was in the quarter? And then I know you kind of just talked about this on the last question but how you’re thinking about that potential benefit as we move into the second quarter because it looks like it could be pretty sizeable? Yes the -- I think Noelle our guidance was $15 million -- we expect it about $15 million to $20 million headwind we believe that was actually $5 million to $10 million.
Okay.
So let’s call at the midpoint about $10 million better than we thought but still about $5 million to $10 million headwind in Q1.
And what made it less than you were expecting? I mean copper -- it didn’t move up towards the end of the quarter but I would say overall it was pretty low to be a better pricing than you were anticipating or was there anything outside that fit [ph] into that? Yes I think there were a couple of components to it Noelle.
I think part of it is the way the quarter falls right.
So we -- as we started into the construction season March is an important period.
So you’ve got to -- pretty good weighting of volumes until March and then -- again they will also attribute some to our ability to move price into whole price.
So I would say it's a combination of factors.
Okay.
And then if you could comment on the strength you’ve got in the distribution market in the quarter.
Do you think there was any seasonal impact in terms of that acceleration or do you feel like you're starting to see a more broad-based acceleration in investment and distribution infrastructure? Noelle you’re talking about the electrical distribution? Electrical distribution in the U.S.
You know its up a bit.
It’s funny Noelle the high point for the -- if you take investor-owned utilities was in 2006 it fell to -- 2013 it was dropping a bit.
It's up over the 2013 levels and up year-over-year I would say low double-digits.
We will have to see how she plays but this is back to -- as we talked about before we never saw the investment fall as much as it did in this last cycle.
And it would be much stickier historically as people would go from low voltage to medium voltage.
So that's a -- that's good news.
We also -- then you have the utilities that are owned by the municipalities and that's a little more sluggish.
Wind was strong in the first quarter but we still think it will be down from sort of the peak period say in 2008 and transmission won’t be around the 2012 levels but still above the trough levels.
So net net what we were hoping for and have waited patiently and we talked about at improving slightly in a couple percent being sort of medium voltage or distribution business to the investor-owned utilities that's actually picking up a bit.
We'll have to see if it’s sustaining.
But right now it feels better than it has.
Okay.
And then moving back to the restructuring action this incremental $15 million of savings that you are looking to achieve it looks like that’s largely U.S and Europe.
So how can we think about that $30 million to $40 million that you're targeting for this year in terms of where those savings will fall across the region? And the second part of that question would be Latin America.
You're still struggling there with losses.
I understand the first quarter is typically weak because of seasonality but does that another -- do you have to look at some additional actions within Latin America to really get back to acceptable levels of profitability? Yes.
So the $30 million to $40 million is still really weighted towards Europe and North America I’d say with the predominance in Europe.
That's how I would frame that.
And with respect to Latin America yes clearly macroeconomic headwinds and as we’ve gone down the strategic path and we’ve really leveraged so much of the existing know-how in the business into the Americas we feel very good about what we are doing in Latin America.
So we will be measured -- we will be patient we will be measuring our patience.
We understand it's a critical part of the Company.
The team in Latin America understand it is a critical part of the Company.
So we are focused on it and -- its back to the theme as you had seen -- heard so much around here is its controlling the controllables and we will monitor and will be ready when the markets improve.
We're not done Noelle.
We are always looking for better ways to do things.
So that's sort of kind of the hardwired and we continue to look at.
Well Latin America is choppy with a relatively weaker global commodity spending and pricing and Brazil has its own issues.
We are continuing to think outside the box and everything from SG&amp;A to envelopes and that's just not Latin America it's everywhere.
So we are committed to getting a strong return on capital and being very focused with customers.
We are -- we have very nice positions in all three major geographic areas.
So we'll just keep banging away but we are -- fundamentally you are never done.
You're always looking outside the box to see if you can get better.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is Garcia [ph] on behalf of Shawn Harrison.
First I thought that you had said that subsea project backlog was $125 million.
Can you confirm that if I heard that correctly? And if that's true it seems like it's quite -- down quite a bit if you could kind of address why? No I think in regards to the project backlog including subsea and land it would be a $325 million.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
All right.
And then secondly I was hoping for some color about the timeline for the restructuring savings.
You mentioned its $30 million to $40 million.
What about the timeline for the new $15 million? How should we think about that incremental? Yes we see that -- well those actions are underway and we see that falling into 2016.
Okay.
Is it the early part or throughout the -- I mean the first half of the year or …? Maybe a little early to call it by quarter but we -- on a full-year basis our expectation is to capture the full benefit.
Okay.
And then just about CapEx and free cash flow what are you thinking? It seems like -- I think you said that CapEx [indiscernible] to a $40 million to $50 million for this year.
What are your thoughts on free cash flow? Well again our priorities remain consistent.
So we finished 2014 with a very strong cash flow.
We have a very strong first quarter.
We see CapEx in the $40 million to $50 million area with respect to the core operations.
And from a capital allocation perspective we talked about being it say 30% to 40% of adjusted net income over time.
And that is really -- and so we continue to support the dividend and continue to execute on our key priorities.
Okay great.
So I think those are the main pieces of the free cash flow as we move forward.
Great.
Okay.
And then lastly we’ve seen press reports about mergers and potential stakeout.
I was just wondering if you could comment.
What I would comment is -- again we believe the best effort for the company is the path that we are on.
And you can see it -- you're starting to see it in the numbers and we are going to continue on this path.
Clearly if there were -- if there was someone came forward with an offer the Board would have a [indiscernible] duty to consider that offer relative to the Company's internal plan.
But our most important job right now is to continue to focus -- to continue to keep employees focused and we believe in this plan and we believe in this business and this Company.
So that's where we are focused.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Farber with C.L.
King.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
Just a couple of questions.
One is can you discuss the competitive environment separately in North America and Europe? Has it -- what is it look like today? You know Gary the demand is generally -- is sideways in North America.
You can see bits and pieces of some seasonality.
Some things is getting hot and cold a bit but it is generally the same major players we talked about competitor moving into the aluminum building wire business which has impacted the profitability of the segment.
But broadly it's always intense because it's completed on a daily basis or annual depending upon the type of agreements but no new changes in North America.
I would say the basis is pretty stable in Latin America as well in terms of the incumbents are there.
Europe has had -- there has been a lot of restructuring announcements within -- announced by competitors including us and I would say Europe it depends on the country but its slightly on the mend and again there is still lots of capacity chasing work as the area is generally under pressure from the Middle East or in the Eastern Europe in terms of volume.
But I like what we’ve done on our cost side.
We’ve got a lot of wonderful niches in Europe including the extra high voltage cable submarine and our communications businesses is doing well.
So I would say restructuring is generally been -- talked about or done by competitors particularly in Europe.
But there seems to be not as much capacity being put into the industry after some years of sluggish demand and financial recession.
And eventually that will come back together with building demand and reduced capacity and that will be a strong runway.
What we can do -- the only thing we can control is obviously work the niches and keep endlessly driving costs.
I am very proud of the team who is really pushing hard to both sell [ph] a great number of units globally as well as we were ahead on all the restructuring things.
We're starting to see the benefit of that and we are still in close touch with our key customers.
We are out in front of them and that's all good stuff.
So basically more of the same other than Europe with sort of a midst of a long-term restructuring broadly.
Great okay.
And also in regards to the sale of the assets you have remaining is that possible that will be complete by the end of the third quarter? Gary its Brian.
I think I want to get pinned down to a specific date.
I think maybe what I would say is as we said a very -- an active process we are further along I’d say in Asia than we’re in Africa.
And there is certainly a scenario where we got some thing to say by the -- in these middle quarters of the year.
But I would really not get pinned down because it is full of -- these are dynamic processes and we've got to get through them and get them complete.
Okay.
And then just lastly can you provide an update on how you think about depreciation and amortization for this year? Yes so [indiscernible] I’d say this year let’s call it about $90 million at the midpoint.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi.
A couple of follow-ups.
So first on -- in terms of non-res we’ve heard from other players that they’re starting to see a bit more attraction on the non-res front in the U.S.
Is that a market that you feel like you’re starting to see turn? Yes we look at all the same things you don’t do know well and it’s the non-res has many pieces from energy driven pieces to shopping malls to new factories.
But looking at our numbers I think there is probably a little bit of strength coming through -- again you have got transit stronger than energy exploration and production cables for example now.
So it depends on the segment.
But as we’ve said many times that resi and non-resi broadly lift with the bodes and you can see it as we talked about earlier in the -- a bit more spending by the utilities in the distribution network which is kind of a derivative of that non-res action.
But I'm cautiously optimistic Noelle that it feels okay.
Again a lot of discussion about dollar versus euro and how that impacts Manufacturing spend etc but broadly it feels okay.
And then to what extent -- oh sorry.
But it's moving sideways and maybe slightly up and I think you’ve been publishing on those kinds of numbers out there.
Yes.
And then to what extent -- you didn't mention really oil and gas much.
I mean do you feel like you are seeing some impact from particularly the slowing upstream market or any of the sort of derivative impacts that we have heard about from other companies with exposure to the industrial market? You’re absolutely right Noelle.
Again it takes a while to see the slowdown but we have -- as we have talked about previously around $300 million to $400 million of global -- of cable sold to the oil and gas sector.
This is really the exploration production side about a third of its offshore two thirds onshore.
We are working hard to have look at other uses for that equipment.
It is not always specific to just one oil and gas market and we guess that could be down 20% in the second half of the year which will be a bit of a headwind but we have got other markets that are bit stronger.
So we got to keep that in front of us.
We are -- secondarily obvious oil and gas and some of the derivatives impact our jacketing materials and other things.
So it plays a bunch of different ways specific the cover for the cables themselves.
So it's something we watch and are we want to keep those machines booked and we look for other work to the extent that they are not booked with oil and gas.
Okay.
And then can you walk us through the change in the exchange rate in Venezuela and how that impacted in the remaining value that in terms of assets that are Venezuela had on the balance sheet? Noelle the -- so we went with the SIMADI rate which was the new -- the latest new exchange rate system in Venezuela.
The overall charge was $22 million which included a small component which was inventory related.
We are left with about $8 million to $10 million on the books.
So as we said we are focused on managing this to the best the best possible outcome.
And as we said before we don't count on it and our liquidity it’s a lockbox but it's about $8 million to $10 million on the balance sheet.
Okay.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
End of Q&amp;A Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our Web site later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.