Good morning.
My name is Lindsey and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers' remarks.
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Mike McDonnell our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Mike will provide some opening comments including an overview of our second quarter results and third quarter outlook.
Brian will then provide some additional details on our second quarter and financial position.
And finally Mike will conclude our call with a few summary comments immediately followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on slide number two as we will be making forward-looking statements and referring to adjusted results in today call.
To begin please turn to slide five.
I will now turn the call over to Mike McDonnell.
Mike? Thanks Len.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call this morning.
I'm honored and excited to be part of the General Cable team.
This morning I'll share with you what attracted me to General Cable what I've seen in my first 30 days and give some insights into our key priorities for the future as well as provide a summary of our second quarter results.
First though I'd like to recognize and thank my predecessor Greg Kenny.
As President and CEO for the past 14 years Greg has been a selfless and admired leader.
His passion and commitment helped General Cable become a global leader in the wire and cable industry.
Greg and I have been engaged in a very smooth and thorough transition and I'm deeply appreciative of his time and insight as I takeover and come up to speed.
I was attracted to General Cable because of the company's core strengths and leadership positions which when coupled with the right strategies and strong disciplined executions can enable the team to take the company to another level and create substantial shareholder value.
During my first 30 days I've dug-in in nearly every aspect of the company meeting with employees and customers reviewing businesses and manufacturing sites in both North America and in Europe.
And I will be in Latin America in a little over a week.
I've done preliminary assessments of our strengths and weaknesses in our market and cost positions and our competitive advantages and disadvantages in the core markets we serve.
It's still early in the process but so far I found that General Cable has the essential components to operate at a substantially higher profit level.
We have a high caliber of talent that are committed to the future with a strong desire to win.
The core values of the company including accountability and ownership mentality and integrity are shared by our associates and these values are deeply shared by me.
We serve an array of end-use markets with positive long-term fundamentals including power transmission and distribution communications and various more specialized products for applications such as transit industrial automation wind and a variety of others.
A majority of our revenues are derived from businesses that have strong defensible positions in the regional markets.
And we've made significant progress towards a competitive cost structure that can support sustainable value creation.
Our mission then is to build on these strengths through disciplined operational execution in order to create long-term shareholder value all of which are aligned with my experience strengths and passion.
I've spent my year in – my career in industrial and manufacturing companies with both public and private equity experience.
And my private equity experience focused on operational excellence accretive growth investments and disciplined execution culture which will serve General Cable well.
One of my priorities with the company is to partner with the management team to ensure we have a culture of integrity across the global organization.
As you know earlier this year we named the company's first standalone Chief Compliance Officer.
And under his direction we're building a robust ethics and compliance program that incorporates comprehensive systems and discipline processes for ongoing risk assessments training communications proactive audits and handling and management of reported concerns.
Our program is intended to prevent the issues from occurring while detecting issues quickly when they do arise and responding in an efficient and effective manner.
As we continue to bring our ongoing FCPA-related investigations to conclusions we're taking the lessons learned from these investigations to create a comprehensive program that will support our business now and in the future.
When fully implemented our program will enable us to advance our never-ending mission to earn and maintain the trust of our customers employees shareholders and other stakeholders.
Brian will give you a brief update on the current status of our ongoing investigations.
We continue to expect to complete our internal investigations by the end of the year and we will take the lessons learned from this experience to be an even stronger company going forward.
At the same time I'm confident in our ability to drive success in the company.
My confidence is based on three simple observations: first that General Cable has the necessary strengths and a variety of opportunities as I have already stated; second the company is developing a strong track record of delivering on its financial targets; third meaningful actions for the future are already well advanced into the execution phase.
The restructuring and divestiture actions that are underway and on plan will provide us with a more focused set of core businesses a more competitive cost structure and a more nimble organization.
We're committed to completing these actions according to our original plan.
However this is just the start.
I'm now working with our board and the management team to develop a new strategic roadmap to generate substantial growth and long-term shareholder value.
The focus of the new strategic roadmap will build on our leading positions where we have competitive strengths and scale as well as optimize our asset base and cost structure.
I want to thank the General Cable team for their hard work and focus.
We generated strong results in the second quarter due to the team's continued and consistent operational execution.
Adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS for the second quarter were at the upper end of our guidance range and we continue to tightly manage working capital.
Adjusted operating income in the second quarter and for the first half of the year were up year- over-year principally driven by restructuring savings of $8 million and $16 million respectively strong project execution in our land and submarine turnkey businesses in Europe performance improvement in our electric utility and communication businesses in North America and strong operational execution throughout Latin America.
With respect to end market demand in North America volume was stable through the first half of the year though there was some variation quarter-to-quarter due to project timing for distribution cables and wind farms.
We're experiencing some recovery in maintenance CapEx spending as demand through the first half of the year for distribution cables was up low single-digits year-over-year.
Transmission sales were strong and ahead of last year through the first half of this year.
We're also driving sales in our communications business with our continuing strong connectivity partnership and a richer mix of higher value products including specialty fiber.
Demand for products tied to construction spending improved except for those linked to OGP which remains under pressure.
In Europe we're encouraged by the ongoing bidding activity in our land and submarine turnkey businesses leveraging our demonstrated performance and installation capabilities.
Our electric utility sales were stable due to our leading position with transmission operators.
Overall end market demand in Western Europe for products tied to construction spending was also stable albeit at low levels.
Unit volume was down year-over-year principally due to the impact of restructuring activity as we exited certain low value end markets in Spain.
In Latin America demand was down through the first half of the year due to weak construction spending and infrastructure investment.
We also experienced temporary customer delays for aerial transmission cables in Brazil during the second quarter which are anticipated to ship later this year.
With respect to the third quarter operating results are expected to be impacted by lower metal prices and lower project activity in our submarine turnkey business.
These trends are anticipated to be partially offset by restructuring savings in the range of $8 million to $10 million.
We're on track to realize annual savings from restructuring actions in the range of $30 million to $40 million in 2015.
Overall volume sequentially is expected to be flat as lower seasonal demand in Europe is expected to be offset by a shipment of transmission cables in Brazil.
And now I'll turn the call over to Brian Robinson to review our second quarter results.
Brian? Thank you Mike.
On slide seven net sales on a metal adjusted basis for the second quarter were down 2% year-over-year excluding foreign currency exchange rate movements of $135 million and 5% sequentially.
Overall unit volume was down 12% year-over-year and 8% sequentially which is principally due to the weak end market demand experienced throughout Latin America including the intermittent delay of aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil and the exit of certain low value end markets in Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $55 million reflects restructuring savings of $8 million and the consistent execution of the submarine turnkey project business in Europe as well as the electric utility and communication businesses in North America.
During the first half of 2015 we have generated $103 million of adjusted operating income which was up approximately 50% year-over-year and 20% versus the second half of 2014.
On slide eight in North America adjusted operating income for the second quarter of $44 million increased 13% sequentially and 19% year-over-year.
During the first half of 2015 we have generated $83 million of adjusted operating income which is up 12% versus the first half of 2014.
This improvement reflects the benefit of restructuring savings as well as the improved performance of the electric utility and communications businesses.
Overall demand for the first half of the year was up 6% versus the first half of 2014.
We were capturing projects in both transmission and distribution with the latter more heavily weighted to the first quarter.
Our communications businesses continue to drive sales through higher value add projects including Cat 6 and Cat 6A as well as specialty and premise fiber.
On slide nine in Europe during the first half of 2015 we generated $26 million of adjusted operating income which is more than three times the adjusted operating income generated in the first half of 2014.
This improvement reflects a strong production and contract service and installation activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions in Spain.
Our project backlog including both subsea and land was at $225 million at the end of the second quarter.
End market demand in Western Europe remained stable during the second quarter albeit at relatively low levels for construction related products.
Reported revenue through the first half of the year includes the impact of $126 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On slide 10 demand throughout Latin America remains uneven due to weak construction spending and GDP growth rates.
Adjusted operating income for the second quarter improved sequentially due to the continued improvement in operational execution and the benefit of restructuring actions.
Adjusted operating income for the first half of 2015 improved $10 million versus the first half of 2014.
On slide 12 and 13 we provided a summary of our debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the end of the second quarter.
Net debt of $1.093 billion was down $126 million from the end of 2014 due to the continued tight management of working capital which generated $75 million of cash in our core operations and the use of cash proceeds generated from divestitures.
On slide 13 we currently have $375 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility.
In addition we have $64 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American businesses.
Collectively we have $477 million of liquidity in the system.
We are well-positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
As we've summarized on slide 15 we remain focused on executing our strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved results in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're pleased with the execution and positive momentum we have achieved since announcing the divesture program in October.
During the second quarter we announced a definitive agreement to sell our remaining Asia Pacific operations consisting of businesses in Thailand China New Zealand and Australia for cash consideration of approximately $205 million.
We previously completed the sale of our interest in joint ventures in the Philippines China and Fiji which together generated $88 million of cash proceeds.
Upon completion of the sale of our Asia Pacific operations we will have generated approximately $293 million of cash proceeds from the divestitures which is consistent with our previously communicated expectations before the divestiture of Africa.
Next on our restructuring program during the second quarter we implemented additional SG&amp;A cost reductions and asset optimization plans including the realignment of the North American aluminum building wire business and our operations and Colombia.
We also completed the sale of a manufacturing facility in Spain.
We continue to target $90 million of annual savings from restructuring actions including 2015 savings in the range of $30 million to $40 million and $40 million to $50 million of incremental savings to be realized in 2016.
In the second quarter we estimate the benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $8 million.
Before handing the call over to Mike I would like to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA-related investigation focused on Angola India and Thailand.
As we continue to make substantial progress in completing our work with respect to the investigation in those locations we are also currently reviewing certain transactions in our Egypt and China businesses that may raise concerns under FCPA.
The SEC and DOJ are aware of scope of our ongoing internal investigation and we continue to fully cooperate with them as we complete our review.
The company's work with respect to Angola India and Thailand is substantially complete and despite this expansion of scope we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal FCPA-related investigation will be completed by the end of the year.
And we anticipate presenting our findings on these matters to the SEC and DOJ including with respect to the transactions under review in Egypt and China before year-end.
As we stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
With those comments I will turn the call back over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Brian.
As I outlined earlier we're developing a strategic roadmap which builds on our competitive strengths and scale that will generate substantial and sustainable shareholder value.
Over the next four to six months as our strategic work advances we're committed to communicating our plans and actions to our investors with ample dialog and transparency.
While we're managing through some challenges in the near term we're absolutely focused on operational execution.
We're making significant progress in optimizing our asset and cost base driving performance improvement in key end markets and in generating cash.
Look forward to meeting all of you in the coming months as I get out on the road to see our investors to share more about our strengths and opportunities to improve performance.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now I will turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
And your first question comes from the line of Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Can you hear me? Matt? We can hear you Matt.
Okay sorry.
So first welcome Mike.
Look forward to working with you.
My pleasure.
Yeah.
I know you're going to talk about a lot of this in the coming months but hopefully I will get a – maybe a couple of these answers.
But I was interested by your comments around the substantially higher margin potential profit potential profit margin potential of the business.
I assume you're talking mostly about gross margin and I'm just wondering if you can provide any initial insight on some high-level thinking around the margin improvement potential? Yes.
Great question Matt.
Let me start off with that.
Look as we look at our industry and in this current environment if we take an average adjusted income margin for the last couple of years the industry-leading margin you could call it around 7% plus or minus.
And we're at 4% in the same period.
So that's a gap that has implications and has to be closed.
And our aspiration and commitment is to close that over time.
If you look at what we've already committed to in terms of our restructuring program that gets us almost halfway there.
But that still leaves a sizable gap and the strategies that we'll be developing over the next months including both how we can build on our strengths and how we can enhance further our operational execution our operational excellence and work on our asset optimization and cost structure.
We have confidence that we're going to close that gap.
There's no reason we shouldn't be able to operate this company at a significantly enhanced margin.
Obviously I'll have more to say about that as we continue to do our work.
General Cable has a lot of pieces to it.
And what we're doing right now and what I'm doing is really trying to understand each of those pieces and see how we put together the right pieces for the future to really unlock the value in the company and align our cost structure and asset composition to drive that strategy in the right way.
And I think there's terrific opportunity as I said in my opening remarks to do that and I'm very excited to be here to help this company do that.
Okay.
And so – thanks for that.
So from a product perspective you guys discussed this quarter some low-margin calling.
Do you see more mix? How big of a component is mix going to be? And I guess that that would be on the low-margin calling side so lifting margins from the mix efforts and as you looked at the suite of products globally now are there any obvious gaps in any of the geographies? I think the numbers show that there are clearly some gaps.
I am not going to comment on them right now.
But I will say that we do see more opportunity and the management team is very focused on that.
In fact they've been focused on that before I got here around those low margin products.
You heard us referred to Spain and exit of certain low value markets and so forth.
Look we're not employed here to run businesses at breakeven or less.
And so we're going to root those out and figure out how to fix them or get out of them.
Okay.
Okay.
Understood.
One more maybe for you Brian.
The guidance range is fairly wide.
Can you talk about some of the variables that would take you from 2 or to 22? Yeah.
Matt when you walk forward sequentially and the biggest impacts when you peal through are really the metals impact which is as you know over time is short term in nature we work our way through that.
And then the other piece of it is the sequential walk forward in terms of the project business in Europe that primarily being the NSW business the submarine power cable business.
And if you recall we talked about that last quarter that we expected a strong first half to the year.
And because of the way the order pattern was falling we expected a tougher second half which will be partially offset by the restructuring savings.
So I think as we walk forward that is really the biggest impact that has been moved to sort of second quarter to third quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
Okay.
What I wanted to add is in the rest of the businesses we are really seeing – the word we used is stable and the businesses continue to perform.
And as Mike said I think it's – the exit of the low value add business in Spain is a good example of that we're not standing still as we work through all the various analyses.
Perfect perfect.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thank you Matt.
Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Welcome Mike.
We are all anxious to get a sense for your broader vision here.
So look forward to hearing to that in the coming months.
I look forward to talking with you about it.
I guess just kind of looking at the balance sheet financial position liquidity and as you look at this do you have some kind of defined leverage targets in mind that you like to get the company back to? Yeah.
So Brent good morning.
It's Brian.
Hey Brian.
So we are pleased with the progress we're making.
You can see that we've stepped leverage down from year-end.
You can see that we're – this focus on working capital has been very powerful for us.
So in short I would say when we think about leverage we like to notionally move towards more sort of a 2 time leverage target.
I think we started on a good path to that.
And in the working capital as you know is very meaningful and all this before the divestiture proceeds.
So we continue to focus on moving forward on the closing of the Asian sales here in the third quarter.
But again making good progress and we'd like to work our way towards sort of a 2 times kind of a leverage target.
Perfect.
Thank you for that.
And then just trying to get a feel for the environment in Europe it looks like there are some moving parts.
If you looked at volume outside of the – kind of the project submarine businesses as well as the kind of products you have exited here what do see in there? Are we bouncing along the bottom or are you still kind of seeing ongoing pressure? I can give you a little insight on that.
I think – one thing we have to recognize is in Q3 we have a typical European seasonality with the holiday period and so forth.
But the fundamentals of underlying demand in Europe we see is pretty stable right now.
I think there are some signs of some improvement.
I think it's very early to make a call on that.
But it also looks to me like it's stable and is unlikely to go in the other direction either.
So I think that's good news compared to what we've been through in Europe for the last few years and I think there's every reason to believe that we'll have a stable and maybe slightly improving environment into the future.
But I think most of our work is going to be through – and most of our performance in Europe is going to be as a result of what we do as a management team and the actions that we drive.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
First off Mike congratulations on the appointment.
Thank you.
Happy to be here.
Just a high-level question as I listened to you speak about rooting out underperforming businesses getting to kind of an industry-leading EBIT margin if you think about General Cable regionally are you thinking that every region will have to be at that 7% range? Or will you expect to see certain regions above that? And you're kind of targeting maybe the business regionally on an ROI basis.
Just kind of speak to how you view General Cable regionally versus kind of this high – 7% margin goal.
Yeah.
Well -- look that's a great question and a lot more of that's going to come out as we move forward.
But remember that we have very high concentration in one region and that's North America less so in Europe and Latin America very small.
I think the performance impact and improvement is possible in all regions and it will come in different ways right? Because we have some very substantial strengths in certain parts of the company that can be built on and ultimately we want to drive long-term growth accretive growth in those segments.
And there will be some lower margin areas where we decide hey we either have to make some changes in order to be able to substantially complete – sustainably or we are going to have make other choices there.
So I think it's going to be a mix of everything.
But we're not going to ignore any obvious issues and we're going to make sure that we drive value where the improvement is based on competitive strengths in the company.
So it's going to be more focused and it's going to be real focus on operational execution.
Okay.
Helpful.
And Brian I have a few I guess clarifications.
Metal prices what were they both on a copper and aluminum side that you had for the second quarter? It's $2.77 and $0.80.
Oh.
Thanks Brian.
And then second just on the restructuring program if I remember correctly $10 million of synergies were realized I believe on a run rate basis exiting the fourth quarter of last year.
The $8 million was that an annualized number here for the second quarter? And I guess how much on a total run rate basis would you achieve now through I guess exiting the second quarter with last year and this year combined? Yeah Shawn.
We think $8 million for 2015 as – let's called it a per quarter number.
So cumulative through mid-year 2015 call it $26 million.
So the $10 million from the second half of last year and then $16 million to the first half of 2015 and all of that growing up to $30 million to $40 million incremental in 2015.
Okay.
So another maybe $8 million would be in the back half of the year in terms of an incremental that you're going to be at? Per quarter so call it another $16 million for the second half.
Okay.
Got you.
And then last question the thing – I guess it stood out to me in the presentation was 30% to 40% free cash flow return to shareholders over the course of the cycle.
I can't remember if there was a previously articulated goal if there was what was it? And I guess – if not what led to kind of this target right now in terms of 30% or 40% return? Yeah.
So we've used the 30% to 40%- and we call it adjusted net income Shawn and we've used the words over cycle.
So as you know we put the dividend in a couple of years ago.
And the way I would think about it and – is that like everything we continue to look at the dividend analyze the dividend relative to our financial position our performance.
And what I would expect is as we continue this work on the business and where we are going to play and where we're going to really drive that performance you should expect behind a refinement of our capital allocation policy.
So it's front and center it's another part of the analysis that were undertaking with respect to really Mike's immersion into the company and the business.
Okay.
Helpful Brian.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to General Cable.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.