Good morning.
My name is Lindsey and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers' remarks.
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Mike McDonnell our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Mike will provide some opening comments including an update on our strategic review and an overview of our third quarter results and fourth quarter outlook.
Brian will then provide some additional details on our third quarter and financial position.
And finally Mike will conclude our call with a few summary comments immediately followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on slide number two as we will be making forward-looking statements and referring to adjusted results in today call.
To begin please turn to slide five.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike McDonnell.
Mike? Thanks Len.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
As you know we're in the process of conducting a deep dive into our business and developing a detailed strategic roadmap that we plan to share with you all in the early part of next year.
Today I'd like to talk a bit about how we're thinking about that roadmap based on the work we've done so far.
As I see it the company has reached an important pivot point.
Over the last year we've executed well on our strategic objectives including substantial restructuring and divestiture plans.
We generated $26 million in cost savings from the announced restructuring program year-to-date and are on track to achieve the full target of $90 million by 2016.
Our divestiture program has so far yielded proceeds of $176 million with more to come.
We've also improved the consistency of our execution in the business achieving our earnings guidance now for four consecutive quarters.
We continue to efficiently manage working capital and see further opportunity.
Clearly we're building momentum and investors are beginning to take notice.
Brian and I met extensively with investors during the third quarter including more than 55 one-on-ones.
The feedback we've heard was that in general investors like our direction in terms of simplification of the company and the businesses restructuring and consistency of operational execution.
And they are beginning to appreciate the progress we're making as we set a path forward toward the goal of industry-leading performance in the markets that we compete.
We've made good progress on our strategic roadmap.
We're currently working with a strong sense of urgency in four areas.
First how we'll continue to focus and optimize our portfolio in order to leverage our strengths into value creation in a disciplined way.
Second how we'll optimize our assets and cost structure to build a truly-competitive cost position.
Third how we'll continue to cultivate an improved culture of performance including a world-class compliance program.
And fourth how best to measure performance improvement of both the individual businesses and the overall company with greater transparency to investors? So first let me talk a little bit about focusing and optimizing our portfolio.
In our view wire and cable is a tough but good industry.
Many end markets have very solid long-term fundamentals.
For example growth in power transmission and distribution is driven by increased use of renewables grid reliability and efficiency and replacement of aging infrastructure.
Industrial production and automation in non-residential construction helped to drive our industrial construction and specialty businesses.
Increased demand for bandwidth and connectivity drive our communication businesses.
These are fundamentally good drivers.
We also see opportunity for focused innovation in the wire and cable industry leveraging the sciences of surfaces and materials to improve wire and cable products and technologies.
So based on all of these and many other factors we believe we can serve these attractive markets and earn good returns.
Many of our businesses are well aligned to these end markets and fundamental drivers.
As we look at our portfolio we're prioritizing our businesses according to a set of strategic and financial criteria.
These include market position scale cost position alignment with attractive market drivers opportunities for value creation and the ability to meet certain financial criteria including growth sustainable margin and return on invested capital.
We'll communicate more on these parameters early next year.
Now we have many businesses that are close to meeting most of these strategic criteria and that represents somewhere near 75% of our portfolio.
We have many additional businesses in the portfolio that have the potential to meet these criteria in a reasonable timeframe with modest resource requirements.
Now it's important to note that historically as the company grew over the last decade some of our acquired businesses were sub-scale and introduced significant complexity into the company.
Our current divestiture program has already identified Asia-Pacific and Africa as regions within our portfolio that did not meet our strategic criteria.
And as you know we're in the process of exiting these.
There are of course additional businesses that might fall into the sub-scale category where we may need to look at alternatives.
Our roadmap will identify a portfolio strategy to maximize value and a strategic and financial framework to allocate resources to drive targeted results.
Next let me comment on optimizing the asset base that number two.
We're also analyzing opportunities to further optimize our asset base and overall cost structure to develop a lean efficient enterprise with leading cost position.
We're focused on areas such as our manufacturing and logistics footprints.
Sometimes a small example helps to illustrate the opportunity that we have for streamlining our asset base.
Let me share one with you.
Some of our product lines can be produced at multiple sites within a region.
If for example if one of these sits were sub-scale there could be an opportunity to consolidate that production into a site with greater scale.
This could result in reduced production cost through reduced set-ups and changeover scrap improved labor efficiencies lower freight and more importantly handling costs and more efficient capacity utilization.
Now we've already demonstrated that we can generate value from this type of asset optimization through our current restructuring program.
And we're currently analyzing opportunities to do more of this.
We're really working this very hard and I'm feeling even more confident that the opportunities are real and executable.
Now turning to our culture.
As we move forward we also see the opportunity to improve our performance culture within the company.
We're looking at ways to motivate and engage our employees our associates and foster an organization where all of our associates are valued and make a difference.
We believe we have a significant opportunity to cultivate a high-performance culture centered on the highest ethical and compliance standards greater accountability and ownership mentality and aligned incentives.
We believe these efforts will further improve our execution as we move forward.
Remember our people are the foundation of all that we do.
I appreciate their commitment and hard work and I'm making it a real priority to earn their trust and loyalty.
Now about measuring our progress I've already said many times that I see opportunity for substantial value creation at General Cable.
I try to give you an early sense of the magnitude of that opportunity we have here at the company.
For example I told you that I believe we can achieve an industry-leading operating margin which over the recent past has been around 7% during the same period we performed at about 4%.
Where does my confidence come from? Well let's look at where we're today.
About a third of our portfolio was already operating at or close to the target another third is in that 3% to 5% range and the final third is under 3% with some businesses at zero.
We see substantial opportunities to improve the businesses in all three of these ranges and especially in the lower 2%.
We already have significant momentum and some line of sight toward our goal of achieving industry-leading margins through our current restructuring program which should improve our operating margin by about 125 basis points.
As we finalize our roadmap and began implementing the key elements of the portfolio and asset optimization we believe we're creating the path that will help lead us the rest of the way.
As we develop our detailed plans we're also thinking about how we can improve visibility by providing you with metrics that better indicate how our business is performing.
We've already mentioned operating margin but our roadmap will include a set of metrics and targets to help you track our performance and better understand the progress we're making.
Before handing the call over to Brian who will review our third quarter financial results I wanted to also share a few highlights from the third quarter including some of the market trends we're seeing over the second half of the year.
Adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS were well ahead of our guidance range for the third quarter.
This is due to strong results generated in our subsea power cable business in Europe our restructuring savings and continued performance of our North American businesses.
In our subsea power cable business we achieved important milestones during the third quarter as the company's Baltic 2 project nears completion which at this point entails energizing the cable and final inspection.
As you recall this is a significant multi-year project that is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
And it's an important testimonial to our performance culture and teamwork as we've made significant progress in turning around this business following the challenges experienced a couple of years ago.
Next our restructuring program is also on track as we generated $10 million of savings in the third quarter.
We remain on track with our annual savings target with an incremental $30 million to $40 million achieved in 2015.
Finally we're encouraged by the continued strong performance of our operations in North America particularly in the electric utility businesses as we continue to capture projects for grid hardening and reinforcement as well as transmission projects.
We're also encouraged by the performance of our communications business specifically networking premise cables where our customer focus on connectivity partnership continue to drive positive results.
Partially offsetting these trends in North America is the impact of lower demand for industrial and specialty cables particularly those tied to oil and gas.
Partially offsetting these trends was the impact of demand trends throughout Latin America which remained under pressure due to the tough economic conditions there and reduced government spending.
We are however continuing to set the stage for improvement through our restructuring activities where we've announced and are now implementing plans to consolidate facilities in Brazil and Colombia which together these two countries account for just under half of our end market demand in the region.
Also demand trends in Europe continue to be mixed.
Unit volume in our electric utility business has been stable particularly for medium and high voltage cables including land turnkey projects.
These trends have been more than offset by lower demand for low voltage construction products and industrial cables specifically those tied to oil and gas.
With respect to the fourth quarter operating results are expected to be impacted by seasonal demand patterns including seasonal plant shutdowns and lower project activity in our subsea power cable business.
These trends are expected to be partially offset by incremental restructuring savings in the range of $8 million to $10 million in the fourth quarter.
We remain on track with our annual savings target of $90 million in 2016.
Overall we believe we're heading in the right direction and clearly there's a lot to be done.
However I'm confident we can do it and in doing so deliver value to our shareholders.
Okay I'll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson who will review with us the third quarter results in more detail.
Brian? Thank you Mike.
On slide seven unit volume was down 8% year-over-year and 2% sequentially which is principally due to the continued pressure on end market demand throughout Latin America and the exit from certain low value-add markets in Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $47 million reflects restructuring savings of $10 million and the consistent execution of the subsea power business in Europe as well as the electric utility and communication businesses in North America.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we have generated $150 million of adjusted operating income which is up approximately 36% year-over-year.
On slide eight in North America adjusted operating income for the third quarter of $33 million declined 25% sequentially and 26% year-over-year principally due to the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment the impact of lower demand for industrial and specialty cables and weaker end market demand in Canada particularly for products tied to construction and oil and gas applications.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we've generated $116 million of adjusted operating income which is consistent with prior year and reflects the benefit of restructuring savings as well as the improved performance of the electric utility and communications businesses.
Overall demand for the first nine months of the year was up 5% in North America versus the first nine months of 2014.
We are capturing transmission and distribution projects for grid expansion and reinforcement.
Our communications business has continued to drive sales for higher value-add products including Cat 6 and Cat 6A as well as specialty and premise fiber.
On slide nine in Europe adjusted operating income for the third quarter of $16 million increased $5 million sequentially and $18 million year-over-year principally due to the achievement of important project milestones in the company's subsea power cable business.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we generated $42 million of adjusted operating income which is seven times the adjusted operating income generated in the first nine months of 2014.
This improvement reflects the strong production contract service and installation activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
Our project backlog including both subsea and land was $215 million at the end of the third quarter.
End market demand in Western Europe for electric utility cables including land and subsea projects was stable during the third quarter which helped to offset lower demand for industrial and construction related products.
Reported revenue through the first nine months of the year includes the impact of $189 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On slide 10 despite the challenging macro environment in Latin America marked by volatile currencies and low commodity prices weak construction spending and slowing growth rates we're continuing to implement our restructuring actions to drive savings and improve our operational execution.
Through the first nine months of 2015 adjusted operating income has improved 33% versus the first nine months of 2014.
As we've summarized on slide 12 we remain focused on executing our plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved returns in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're pleased with the execution and positive momentum we've achieved since announcing the divestiture program about one year ago.
During the third quarter we completed the sale of Thailand for cash consideration of approximately $88 million.
We've previously completed the sale of our interest in joint ventures in the Philippines China and Fiji which together generated $88 million of cash proceeds.
In total we have generated a $176 million of cash proceeds from divestitures which is consistent with our previously communicated expectations.
We are managing an active process and pressing forward with the divestitures of our operations in Africa and the remaining operations in Asia-Pacific including China New Zealand Australia and India.
Next on our restructuring program.
We continue to make progress on our restructuring initiatives with the implementation of previously announced actions in our North American electronics business and our operations in Brazil were we're consolidating facilities to drive improvement and lower our cost position.
Through the first nine months of the year we've generated approximately $26 million of savings from restructuring actions this year.
We continue to target $90 million of annual savings from restructuring actions including total 2015 savings in the range of $30 million to $40 million and $40 million to $50 million of incremental savings to be realized in 2016.
In the third quarter we estimate that benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $10 million.
On slide 14 we provide a summary of our debt maturity profile position as of the third quarter.
Net debt of a $1.14 billion was down more than $200 million from the end of 2014 and down $79 million from the second quarter due to the continued tight management of working capital and cash proceeds generated from divestitures.
We currently have $369 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility.
In addition we have $60 million of availability on working capital lines and cash on our Latin American businesses.
We're well-positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
Before handing the call back over to Mike I wanted to update you on a couple of important matters.
First we continue to make substantial progress in completing our work with respect to our previously-disclosed FCPA-related investigation.
We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and DoJ as we complete our review.
And we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal FCPA-related investigations will be completed by the end of the year.
As we've stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will the SEC or DoJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
The second item relates to the accounting treatment of Venezuela.
As of October 2 2015 we concluded that due to the increasingly restricted exchange control regime that has limited access to U.S.
dollars in Venezuela combined with government-imposed limitations on our ability to import raw material into Venezuela and otherwise exert operational control over the business there we no longer meet the accounting criteria for control over operations in Venezuela.
Therefore in accordance with applicable accounting standards we deconsolidated the Venezuelan subsidiary and beginning in the fourth quarter we'll account the investment using the cost method.
We made this change effective October 2 2015 and fully impaired the cost investment to fair value or zero by recording a charge of $12 million during the third quarter.
With these comments I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Brian.
As I outlined earlier we're making significant progress in our evaluation of our businesses and the development of our strategic roadmap which builds on our competitive strengths and scale.
Over the next couple of months as our strategic work advances we're committed to communicating our plans and actions to our investors with ample dialog.
Our strategic review again is focused on optimizing our portfolio in order to leverage our strengths and the value creation in a disciplined way optimizing our asset and cost structure to build our competitive cost position cultivating an improved culture of performance including a world-class compliance program and utilizing key metrics to measure our progress and performance improvement of both the individual businesses in the overall company.
Overall the past quarter presents some near-term challenges from a macro perspective; we're driving performance improvement in our key markets optimizing our asset base and cost position and generating cash.
We're on the right path to generating substantial and sustainable shareholder value and I look forward to continuing on our dialog as we move forward.
Also I want to recognize the continued focus and operational execution of our associates around the world that produce another strong quarterly performance.
I thank you for your commitment and hard work.
It will continue to serve as the backbone for our success.
As I've mentioned we intend to share more details on our plan and how we plan to accomplish all this in early 2016.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us with taking questions.
Operator? Our first question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Brent.
Nice job on the gross margins.
Can we think about this kind of 11% to 12% range you've been reporting last couple of quarters as a sort of a new baseline for the company going forward? Yeah Brent I think we're really – it's starting to establish a new baseline right.
We're starting to see the restructuring benefit come through which helps both the EBIT margin; it helps us move from that 4% to 7% target that we've talked about the industry-leading margin.
And obviously a big knock-on effect into the gross margin because so much of this is on the cost footprint.
So yes we believe we're firmly headed in the right direction.
Sure.
Okay.
And then Brian can you help me frame a little bit more around SG&amp;A.
What that should sort of look like going forward I guess without Venezuela and Thailand kind of out of the picture? Yeah.
Brent so I would say we would still see – we see SG&amp;A in 2015 on an adjusted basis taking out some of the charges and the like in the – let's call it $290 million to $305 million range.
And as we move forward into 2016 I would – look it's an area we'll continue to focus on.
But I'd put it in that same sort of order of magnitude.
Okay.
And then just want to understand the Venezuelan accounting treatment a little bit better.
So if there were changes in policy there around some of the items you guys mentioned would you have to consolidate that back into results? Yes.
If circumstances were to change I would say significantly under GAAP we would be back into consolidating.
And to be clear we – so in our balance sheet today after the $12 million charge in Q3 we have no – basically we've written the investment down to zero.
So there's no more exposure in our balance sheet right now with respect to Venezuela.
Okay.
Great.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Brent.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Shawn.
Hey Shawn.
Wanted to just dig into little bit on cash flow.
It looks like you've seasonally burned operating cash flow this quarter but you're at $50 million of cash flow from operations for the year.
Do you expect or do you have a number that you're targeting for the end of the year knowing last quarter or last year you've put up a huge inventory reduction and lot of cash flow generation exit the year.
Yeah.
Hi Shawn it's Brian.
This year – to your very point – we had a significant finish to the end of last year in bringing down and really managing the working capital very efficiently.
In the third quarter we had some of the payments with respect to our metals come through.
So that hurts a bit from a working capital perspective.
But as we move into the fourth quarter I do not expect such a significant reduction as we had last year.
I do expect some cash generation let's call it in the order of magnitude from maybe working capital perspective in the $25 million area.
We also have on some of our projects significant or I should say meaningful cash flow.
So with that background let's say we see cash generation but not in the order of magnitude that we had in Q4 last year.
Okay.
And then following up there was – I don't know -maybe the best term is a disagreement with one of the asset sales this quarter if we can get an update there and just where you are in progress in terms of selling the rest of the assets to hit the cash target.
You bet.
You bet.
So yes we sold Thailand for $88 million and as part of that deal we'd also – the buyer did not close on China and New Zealand and Australia.
So what we're doing Shawn is these are businesses that have we believe significant value.
We are retaining the value in those businesses both through internal resources and using some external resources.
And we are continuing to manage a very active process.
So we'll keep investors informed as we move forward but that's what we're doing right now is really like I said managing and retaining value.
In the asset in Africa can those be sold before the investigations are complete? Yeah.
The way I would look at it Shawn as we have interested parties.
We have meaningful discussions going on right now with respect to divesting the assets.
We've a good level of interest.
And as we said on our side our investigative work we expect to conclude this year.
So from a timing perspective it's coming together.
And I think with respect to the – as the investigation being out there it's a consideration that we're managing through both internally and with potential buyers.
Okay.
Perfect.
And just one final clarification before I hop back in queue for the third quarter what did you have as the price per pound for both copper and aluminum.
Finance Investor Relations</span></strong> Shawn it was $2.40 for copper and $0.72 on aluminum.
Okay.
Thank you Len.
Finance Investor Relations</span></strong> Yep.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to General Cable.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.