Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
David since you ended on cost I’ll start my question there.
Thank you for all the color regarding the increase -- regarding -- related to the higher dry dock days and what’s driving that? You mentioned this a little bit in your prepared remarks but I’m wondering if you could just give us some color about what is going on with your just underlying cost structure ex this dry dock cost driver? What’s going on with your current ongoing cost saving initiatives? And is there any way that those might further offset this cost guidance that you provided us with today? Felicia about two-thirds of the cost increases I said was relating to dry dock and the other third was really an investment in various areas of the business in terms of things like deployment and occupancy and other things which are driving the remainder of the increase.
And on the flipside I think as Arnold indicated lot of the leveraging our scale and the efficiencies are taking hold and we’re expecting to see that completely offset inflation.
We’re still working very hard that’s our direction at this point and as we made greater strides we’ll update all our projections and forecasts accordingly.
Felicia as we offset the inflation with some of the initiatives that we have we’re looking aggressively.
We’re not afraid to invest if we see a line of sight return from that investment.
So we aren’t afraid to reinvest to the business to drive yields and to drive revenues.
So you’ve got a mix going on there some of the cost increases in vessels.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
And Arnold there was a comment in the release that you made your recording statement that you’re gaining momentum towards your goal of achieving double-digit returns in ROIC over time.
I was just wondering if you could talk more about that comment over what time -- obviously we’re not looking for specific date.
I know you not going to give one but are you thinking about over the next two to three years or are you looking at longer than that? We’re looking at three to five years to get to double-digit returns.
So we have a large business here system hits with fuel increases and other things.
But we definitely see the path in the next three to five years to get to double-digit return on invested capital.
Okay.
Super helpful.
Thank you.
And then just David one last housekeeping your occupancy rate in the quarter actually came in lower than we are expecting.
And we were estimating kind of this strategy that you’re using and then near-term to kind of navigate through the tough promotional environment in the Caribbean.
I'm just wondering how should we think about occupancy rate in the fourth quarter? And in 2015 do you think this strategy will continue? It sounds like things are getting better in the Caribbean for you.
Thank you.
Sure.
Well I’m not sure.
Our occupancy rate came in 1.7 points below the prior year which as I think I indicated in my notes was a bit better than we had anticipated.
So we were able to do much better.
That was part of the yield improvement that we saw in the third quarter.
And as we move forward I think I talked about this on the last conference call that holding price and giving up some occupancy is purely a tactic.
We will continue to work through that.
If the tactic makes sense we’ll utilize it.
But I think as I indicated just a moment ago as part of our cost increase one of the things was higher occupancy relating to the variable cost of food and port charges etcetera.
So we’re hopeful that as we move forward part of that yield improvement is the higher occupancy for 2015.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Obviously you guys are very positive on the Chinese market and that’s certainly been developing over a number of years here.
I guess can you sort of juxtapose what you’re seeing perhaps in Macau and does that give you any pause as it relates to sort of continuing to add capacity in and around China? I think Macau is the destination for those who like gaming and we are actually in a true cruise product.
And so today those selling on our cruises actually our casino opportunities to date have not been strong on our ships because they are really going for a cruise.
They have families etcetera.
So I’m not exactly sure we’re referencing in Macau but in terms of the cruise opportunity the Chinese government has shown a lot of vision.
They’ve made developing the cruise industry a priority.
And with their support companies like ourselves have a tremendous opportunity to tap into what is a huge market possibly and we’ve enjoyed early success and plan to build on it.
And one quick follow-up if I may Arnold.
I guess if you’re to sort of peg a 1% of your yield improvement and sort of the improvement in booking activity for 2015 directly to some of the revitalization that you’ve done over the last year or so particularly on the Carnival brand I mean what percentage you think is contributing towards that improvement?  Yes it would be very difficult to say to isolate variables like that.
What I can tell you is that we have definitely gained momentum across the brands in terms of best practices.
We haven’t finished our revenue management project but already we’ve had lift on isolated itineraries across brands as they collaborate appropriately.
Also on onboard revenue some of the onboard revenue lift we’ve experienced has come from again great collaboration across the brands identifying best practices.
We see that continuing to build in even more dramatic fashion than we’ve experienced to-date because we’ve only touched the tip of the iceberg today.
Thank you.
Yeah.
A couple -- can you hear me?  Yes Steven we can hear you.
Okay.
So I guess just on Joel’s question.
On the China opportunity what has changed there do you think that you’re willing -- more willing to commit ships and human capital to the market especially putting COO and I am assuming some other management people there because in the past China has been a little bit more difficult and that hasn’t been a home run? And then separately Arnold because you just mentioned this the cross collaboration which has been a big focus of yours on that onboard spend could there be more to go as you start to integrate some of those great ideas and maybe you could share some of the specific best practices that you’ve seen? And then one final thing -- and I’m sorry I ask this fairly frequently why not set a more specific cost target for the next couple of years? You now sort of set an ROIC target of three to five years why not set something more on the expense front? Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Steven.
So your first question concerning China we began investing in China in 2006.
The Costa brand as I mentioned in the introduction here was the first brand to do so in China.
And things take time to develop and we have been successful in developing our business there and others have come in now as well.
What’s changed in addition to that first was it just takes time to develop a market.
But what’s changing in addition to that is that the government has it as a priority now.
The Chinese government has a plan for development of a cruise industry in China and that means you are getting tremendous support and opportunity to participate led by the various governments whether it’s the Central Government or the provincial or the municipal governments like in Shanghai and Tianjin.
And so all of that bodes well we are beginning to gain momentum.
Distribution system is learning how to market a product such as a cruise product.
You are beginning to see players in China look at building the domestic brand which we think will be real powerful at to developing that market.
So that’s basically what is going on in China and then getting enough scale that it does take cost obviously to build brands and to build the presence and now obviously with the number of ships we have there now and the ones we are going to add we are beginning to get scale so the opportunity for greater profitability is there.
So that’s the quick answer on China.
Yeah.
Let me just add one other point on that.
Steve we have talked about this before historically as Arnold said we started in ’06 and we were investing in China which was a nice way of saying we were losing money we broke even in ’12 we made money in ’13 and ’14 we saw double-digit yield increases in China and the performance of our ships in China has been excellent and so we are very excited about the opportunity as we move forward.
To your second question… No.
Concerning onboard revenue your second question in terms of is there additional opportunity? Absolutely we had a 5% lift in onboard revenues in this quarter to suggest that we will have a 5% lift every quarter from hereon on out we will probably not be anywhere near the right thing to say.
But clearly we see opportunity in specific areas.
We had an area in casino we had area in beverage upgrades and restaurants upgrade opportunities.
There are host of others.
But we are just at the tip of that in terms of really harvesting what is possible there.
And then you last question.
Was relating to the specific cost target heading back… Yeah.
In terms of giving you a specific number on costs as we mentioned directionally we see as offsetting inflation that’s a $75 million to $80 million number on to itself.
We haven’t finished all of the projects yet.
We are in the middle with the airlines in terms of our airline RFPs.
Obviously we are not going to give a number on that because we are on negotiation with them as we speak that will be wrapping up soon.
And I think we will have more to say in the fourth quarter.
But in terms of saying a specific target the reality is we are going to reinvest in the business too.
So I think we will give you one-off as we determine them and we will share with you what we’re reinvesting in at the appropriate time and whether or not we think we will pay it off.
Thank you Steve.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
So David going back to your cost guidance for 2015 and 2016 I guess.
Is it fair to say I mean if we simplify this that basically in ’15 and ’16 if you stripped out your dry-dock costs you are basically looking at flat over that two-year period? Roughly speaking that’s a good estimate.
But I will say one other thing that we have to decide on for 2016 is whether we have additional product enhancements or investments.
As Arnold said before he is not afraid to make some good ROE investments to improve yield to improve the operating income because that’s where we are most focused on.
So absent that yes the math is similar to what you are describing but yet there are lot of decisions yet to be made.
Okay.
Got you.
And then Arnold seems like the Carnival brand itself is started to get a little bit momentum here? Can you maybe help us think about the recovery in that brand and how you is it moving quicker than you guys would have thought is it lagging maybe also and I don’t know if you will give this but where is the booking window for just the Carnival brand and maybe pricing relative to all the triumph -- the triumph incident? Well real quickly in terms of the overall feeling about the brand.
I would say that the recovery is probably the little faster than we had a right to believe it would be but at the same time it’s not nearly fast enough for all of us and our brand people certainly deserve a tremendous amount of credit for their product innovations and both in terms of hardware product and soft product onboard and just an excellent delivery on restoring the confidence in the brand and having people appreciate the great experience that the Carnival brand is.
So we’re pleased with it but at the same time we are not satisfied and we’re going to continue to pursue aggressively building the Carnival brand and in getting back to the historical levels.
In terms of the specifics we -- as you know we are not going to give a lot of yield-by-yield or brand-by-brand detail.
So just in general I would say that the yields are showing some strength the Caribbean is we all know was very tough environment this year.
We anticipated that in our original guidance for the year.
So it was a difficult year overall in the Caribbean from a pricing environment.
But the brand has navigated that well and has offset some of that with strong onboard revenue lift and we’re feeling really good about it.
But as you know we don’t give lot of brand-by-brand detail.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Very good.
I wanted to touch on CapEx for a minute and make sure that we have an accurate estimate of your CapEx in 2015 and 2016.
Now that you’re going to be in probably increasing your dry dock days David.
Can you give us a sense of what your full CapEx is likely to look like in both ‘15 and ‘16? Yeah.
CapEx roughly speaking for 2014 is $3 billion.
That’s probably going to be similar to that level in 2015 and 2016.
We’re obviously still going through a lot of the detail for those years and we can give you better guidance as we make some more decisions down the road.
So it sounds like there’s going to be some incremental investment in these systems and based on our estimates does that -- it looks to me to be an incremental maybe $600 million to $700 million a year.
Is that in the right ballpark? I’m not sure what numbers you’re comparing but these are the numbers that I just quoted very close to the numbers that we have been talking about for the last six to nine months as far as my memory is concerned.
Yeah.
But it does reflect the higher level of investment enhancement cost as well as scrubbers for this intervening period not just the scrubbers.
Right.
That’s what I was after.
And then the last question is you mentioned that by the end of ‘15 probably the low 40s the number of ships will be complying with ICA.
Ultimately how many will have to be touched within the system.
Is it 70 ships is it 75 ships.
What is that number likely to be? Directionally the 70 numbers are our magnitude number that ultimately depends on future deployment plans and what have you but… Through 2016.
Yeah through 2016.
And current requirements.
Okay.
So roughly 25 of your ships are newer and really don’t have to be -- have to have much… No no we don’t need scrubber.
We don’t need the EGCs on every vessel.
It depends on where they are deployed.
ICA is not a universal.
So it depends where the ships are going and so some of the fleet doesn’t hit ICA-impacted destinations.
All right.
So the bottomline is ….
Haven’t cleared that from a flexibility standpoint most newbuilds will be equipped to handle the regulations just from our long-term planning standpoint.
Okay.
And when you get into future regulation… Yeah.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
No you go ahead.
Yeah.
I guess I was after is in ‘16 you’ll probably be doing another 20 to 25 ships and then you’re pretty much be done.
I think if you are trying to get a feel for it ‘15 over two-thirds that increase I think as David mentioned on the cost side that directional increase we’re sharing with you all right now was related to increased dry-dock days partly EGC related partly the fuel-saving technology related.
And when you go to ‘16 that will fall off and there will still be additional work to be done.
So we won’t recapture all of that but say two thirds of the cost of those increase that peak in dry-dock days for next year.
Two thirds of the cost related to that will probably disappear in ’16.
But we will continue the implementation aggressive implementation of both EGCs and the fuel-saving technologies because they have sharp payback periods.
Thanks guys.
Did that help you? Okay.
Good Yeah.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I just had one quick question on China.
I’m curios about what sort of headwinds you guys have on expanding the infrastructure with I guess just the people selling the cruises there and then maybe persuading some of the consumers that your products is different than some of the other products that have been out there in the past from other vendors like Star? I think fundamentally there are several issues in your question.
First off all just the consuming public out of the guests helping them understand what a cruise is is still a challenge there.
Now early on there are so few ships and such latent demand that it’s not a huge challenge because there are enough people there that have some familiarity that we can certainly fill the ships.
The challenges as we -- as a growth suggest communicate what a cruise is and that is not just a for in our case a gambling destination or gaming destination.
So there is a challenge.
Therefore we are in the work of doing that along with our distributors there that work with us and we are beginning to have the success with that.
On the other side of the coin in terms of the challenges in developing a market is a host of things and it includes port development that needs to be extensive port of people have to have a place to go and things to do when they get there.
There has to be availability of international ports where the Chinese are sort of free to go in and have the opportunity to experience and enjoy.
And then there has to be supply chain development locally there to provision and provide the infrastructure.
So there is a ton of work to be done is to add an early stage which is very very exciting and you can just see the potential and the possibility.
And like I said we are already experiencing good results and are excited.
It will take time.
It’s not going to happen overnight and that’s why we are sending Alan over there now because there have to be a number of areas sorted out and we’d like to have one of our top people full time there working it everyday to position it for what should be in the not too distant future a tremendous opportunity for the entire cruise industry and especially for Carnival Corporation.
Are you guys finding that cruisers are acquiring or purchasing the product more on their own or sell through to travel agent channel there? And if it is through the travel agent channel how sizeable is that at this point? Yeah.
It is definitely through distributors.
Technically and mostly it’s the ships that are chartered and so the distributors charter the ship and then market it to the Chinese populous.
That’s the structure today is working just fine.
It’s a good model.
That model has existed in other places and eventually of course they end up being probably direct selling the best ways off.
So right now it is through a distribution network.
The distribution network is well organized.
There are some very large entities involved in that in China domestic companies of great scale and significant market capitalization et cetera.
So these are professional organizations that do a good job.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
This is Assia.
Congratulations on the great Q3 results and I have another follow-up question to China.
Do you see any improvement in terms of the relationship between China and Japan so that you can offer a more varied destination or experience for the Chinese passenger? Obviously we’re very respectful of relationships wherever we operate and that’s outside of our scope.
We do expect over time that there will be opportunities for easy exchange between those countries.
And obviously we have ships all imported in Japan as well.
And so we are optimistic about all that but that’s beyond our scope as a company to be involved in those types of relationship matters.
And Arnold now in Q1 that will be anniversarying the Caribbean capacity increase do you think that in 2015 we can get back to kind of the historical yield increases of about 1.9% that we’ve seen in the past or is it still too early to say? I think we are not really giving obviously any yield guidance at this point for 2015.
But I think directionally I would say things should look better in the Caribbean beginning in the later second quarter.
And through the third quarter it should be very good because there will be capacity reduction in the Caribbean next year versus this year.
So I think directionally it looks a more positive.
But at this time I would have to stop there because it would be little early to go beyond that.
Okay.
Understand.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let me wrap up one other one on China if I may.
It appears that the functional currency is still the euro at this point given that everything is under Costa.
Do you see that functional currency changing in the near future as China grows significantly? And then secondly back to the cost comments clearly the scrubbers matters somewhat of a unique item and something that you just have to do.
And it sounds like -- and correct if I am wrong you termed that more as a one-off which we would agree with.
Future investments though do you see those as more the ongoing part of the business in redeploying some of those cost savings? Okay.
Thank you.
First of all on the China comment on the currency obviously we do have Costa.
We also have Princess in China as well.
And then I really can’t comment on the currency.
If you are talking about Tim the accounting functional currency for these entities at the moment because it is part of the Costa brand we look at it collectively together.
And you are right it is a euro functional currency.
But as that grows we will evaluate it.
Today it’s only two ships we’re writing third ship next year to the Costa Asia Group.
And so as that grows that might be something we will reevaluate.
But at the moment we are happy with the accounting for it.
Okay.
Got it.
And Princess? And Princes the same thing it’s just -- it was a half a ship last year.
And as that grows it’s U.S.
dollar functional currency.
And as that grows if there is a good reason we will reevaluate it.
Got it.
Okay.
And then your question on the costs could you repeat it please? Yeah.
I guess it boils down to it sounded like the scrubbers would be -- you are viewing that more as a one-off cost given the unique changes that you are seeing in the regulation.
But the rest of the investments would you view those as sort of one-off or would that just be forward in your cost savings? You said as it stands now half the rates are basically flat with inflation would be fair but then would those investments then be netted against that or would you view those more as a one-off? Got it.
So first of all the increase in dry-dock days that went planning for 2015 evolves both the EGCS as well as some fuel technologies fuel saving technologies.
Hopefully we will find additional fuel saving technologies but I think it’s particular group that we are looking at is more one-off and that’s why we will have a reduction in ’16 in the cost equivalent of the dry-dock days.
A significant reduction in the cost from the peak you will see in ’15.
So in that sense it is one-off.
In terms of other cost savings or other investments we are making investments in multiple areas whether it is a guest experience enhancement or whether it’s related to creating demand directly through advertise or promotions especially those kinds of things.
So those we will look at on a case-by-case basis and as we see an opportunity for return we will implement them and some are technology based enhance the guest experience are create leverage in generating demand so it’s a host of things.
So there will be some ongoing.
We had a peak with that right now it’s hard to say.
But what we will tell you is that we still have a focus on cost containment and so we are confidently harvesting opportunities to reduce our costs and then we decide whether those results will go to bottom line whether they will be reinvested to drive revenue because it gets to the double-digit return invested capital in the timeframe we are talking we will have to obviously drive revenue and that is our focus.
Great.
Thank you both.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks.
Two question first on China.
Have you looked at partnering maybe different kind of venture with local travel companies there or is that something you’ve thought about and decided not to do or something that you’re considering? And then my other question is just on your expense guidance and I hate to focus so much on expense line obviously the yields are -- the yield growth here is above expectations and that’s what’s going to drive so much of the return recovery it’s really yield story.
But just one smaller sub-question and just your full year guidance I know there was some timing shift between Q3 and Q4 for your full year guidance non-fuel expense up slightly instead of being flat to up slightly just up slightly.
Is that just kind of the reinvesting in the product that you talked about? Is there anything particular there or is that just for that general reinvesting you talked about? Okay.
Let’s do the China question first.
In terms of partnerships obviously anything we do will announce at the time.
Clearly it would be safe to presume that we’re exploring all types of possibilities to see what makes the more sense and that’s one of the reasons for having Alan relocate to Shanghai and be there full time.
So we’re exploring on number of possibilities.
We’ll see what make sense.
We’ll work with the Chinese authorities and the various private and partially stand-on enterprises that that were there.
And we’ll sort it all out and we’re in the process of doing that.
But if we have anything specific to announce we’ll do it at the time.
And on the expense side go ahead David.
Yeah.
On the expense side Robin really you’re right we did narrow the range.
With every forecast there are always some unexpected things something positive something negative.
I guess overall with our forecast that we gave last quarter the trend is all generally been positive and we were very pleased with that as we raise the guidance.
But there were couple of unexpected things on the cost side.
We did have a pension expense that we had to take and put into the guidance in 2014.
So there was couple of minor additional expenses and that’s what narrowed the range up slightly.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And maybe just one last question.
You talked about in Q3 the strength in closing demand.
Would you say that was more closing demand for Europe and China or was actually Caribbean closing showing some improvement too? I would say the closing demand definitely included the Caribbean.
There’s no question about that.
But also was global not so much to China on closing demand because as I mentioned that’s a charter type business.
But in terms of Europe and the Caribbean in particular there were stronger closing demand.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hello there.
Can you just talk a little more on these dry-dock cost and their reversal? Do I take from what you’ve said so far that you have sort of initial thinking on unit costs in 2016 is that they would actually than be down year-on-year i.e.
your strategic initiatives offsetting any inflation again but then some of these perhaps not quite all but some of the 2% of dry-dock costs reversing to bring unit costs down? Those dry-dock costs can you just talk a little bit about how they interact with CapEx? My understanding was that it was sort of already CapEx for this equipment within the guidance.
Just sort of outline what things are capitalized and what things go through as OpEx? And then finally on the revenue side of things looking into next year it sounds from what you’ve said on early bookings is that the environment is actually switching around to being stronger beyond North American brands rather than your EAA brands for next year.
Can you just clarify whether my read of that is accurate and provide any sort of further color as to what that’s predominantly down to Carnival brand recovery or whether it’s more granule than that? Thank you very much.
Okay.
So I’ll take some because I heard some of them and I’ve to maybe check some.
So first of all in terms of costs being down in ’16 it would be premature at this point to give full clarity for ‘16 because we don’t know we are going to learn from what we’ve done this year.
We’ll learn from what we do in ‘15.
And we’ll make determinations on expenses going into ’16 later in ’15 in terms of what we may choose to invest in from a driving revenue and driving the business on a sustainable fashion standpoint.
So I have no prediction on the absolute.
What I can tell you though is that these costs that are occurring in ’15 were related to the dry dock that two thirds of that increase at least will disappear in ’16 will not be there.
It just won’t be necessary would have made the enhancements and it just won’t be necessary than that money.
So that’s what I can tell you on that part.
And as far as the dry-dock costs themselves during the dry dock period we do both like expense type work as well as capital type work.
So if you are installing an EGC on the ships or implementing some capital relating to fuel efficiency technology that might be some capital work.
But you also have the actual cost of the dry-dock services the dry-dock itself the power the water for the ship.
You’ve got to prove that generally stays with the ship that gets expensed and capital because you’re not sending a thousand crew home for two weeks.
So there’s a number of capital as well as expense type items that occur during the dry-dock period.
And from a cost perspective the increase was relating to the P&amp;L cost I’m referring to.
And then with regards to your question about North America versus Europe in terms of is there more strength in North America and Europe or flip-flopping the strength of the markets.
I would just say that we have seen the lengthening in the booking curve and higher prices in the first half of the year so far in North America.
And while we’ve seen somewhat latent of the booking curve for the first half of next year in Europe the prices are comparable pricing so that’s probably what you are reacting to.
Having said that I wouldn’t describe that broadly as North America being stronger than Europe or vice versa.
Some of it has to do with the comparisons year-to-year and just a mix.
So we’ll see how it goes.
We are optimistic about both markets going into 2015.
And just on that point my comment in relation to brand within North America.
Presumably given that the comps you would be more optimistic once you are able to breakdown brand individually would you be more optimistic specifically about the Carnival brand than the rest of the North American brands? I think the North America brands broadly if you lob it all together clearly the comps will be somewhat easier weighted average because of the Caribbean situation and the Carnival situation coming off of the last couple of years so the comps will be [come] (ph).
But on the other hand you have the Costa situation where Costa is still continuing to rebound and has some additional upside.
So that’s -- haven’t look that quite that way that would be a tough call to make off the curve.
Sure.
Thank you very much.
Hi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions please.
Could you give us some feel for the fuel efficiency programs that will be in place for next year? And to what extent they may offset the $0.10 increase in fuel that you’re expecting of the back of the changing regulation? And secondly what fuel price you have assumed in assessing that and also on the fourth quarter guidance? Clearly the onboard spend has been very good and you did point out not assume that every quarter.
And putting together your guidance will you more prudent in terms of thinking more along how you were looking at the third quarter can you put out your view in the third quarter or with what you actually delivered this quarter? Thank you.
Thank you.
Concerning the 10% eco impact on the higher fuel cost next year and whether some of the fuel saving technologies already in place are that we would deploy next year doing early season dry-dock will offset that.
The reality is that that 10% obviously or $0.10 excuse me what will be pretty much eliminated going into ’16 and will be going by ’17 because of the EGC installations that we are doing.
So it will go away in that context.
But obviously we will continue to aggressively pursue not only through the Department of Technologies but also managing deployments and managing the ships on itineraries from a fuel consumption standpoint as well as all the practices onboard.
And so we will continue pursue fuel savings as we have in the past.
Is there some upside in that for next year we will have to see as we manage through but right now we would just try to give you guys a little color something you might not have anticipated which was this increase in dry-dock so we could aggressively deploy the technologies so we can have the benefits sooner rather than later for many years to come.
Yeah.
Just to give you some color on the math given the amount of fuel 2014 prices a 1% change in the -- in our fuel consumption or the price of fuel would be like $2.06.
So we will take a 4% consumption reduction to offset the $0.10 eco that we talked about in 2015.
Just and we have been talking about getting a 2% to 3% fuel consumption improvement as we move forward.
And as far as the fuel price is concerned we always use basically the current fuel prices.
We locked off late last week when fuel was close to $100 a barrel in terms of Brent and fuel moves around daily and the numbers do change accordingly.
As far as onboard for the fourth quarter is concerned we did raise our onboard revenue guidance for the fourth quarter in fact we raise both the ticket and the onboard as I have mentioned in notes.
So we were conservative I am not assuming a repeat of 5.5 percentage point yield increase on onboard in the fourth quarter.
I would love to see it repeat itself.
But that’s not basic forward guidance something considerably lower in the more normalized level is baked in.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Thanks.
And first question is just on your 3% unit costs guidance for next year.
Is that inclusive or exclusive of the costs savings that you refer to I know you talked about in December I am just aware that just probably last year you guided a cost about 4% and you ending up just slightly up? And then the other question is how worried are you about the industry order book? Clearly we are back to about prior peak for ’07 levels a lot of new ships coming on (indiscernible) your competitors should be brought one about that? Thank you.
Your second question was a little fuzzy if you can repeat that Jamie I’d appreciate it.
Couldn’t quite hear you Jamie on your second question we couldn’t hear you.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
How worried are you about the industry order book the amount of new ships and order particularly by competitors? I mean it seems to be back just about prior some of ’07 peak levels and most of it not from Carnival? Thank you.
Thank you.
I will take the second one first.
In terms of worried.
We are not worried.
We know the ships are coming as in the forecast we can see them.
I think in general that still there is not a huge capacity expansion in the industry.
Obviously we are helping that by being very measured in the net capacity addition that we bring on.
But we -- deployment makes the difference depends whether ships all get deployed in a cluster in a given destination market.
But generally speaking it’s a big planet and we think that for the ships that we have -- we see coming that the market will be able to absorb and it will continue to be able to deliver results made to deliver.
Go ahead David.
Sure.
Just one additional comment on the -- on Arnold was answering keep in mind that we’re expecting quite a bit of growth in the emerging markets particularly Asia and China.
So that should be able to profitably absorb a lot of that capacity and the other more established markets will see it more measured capacity increase.
As far as the costs are concern the 3% increase two-thirds of it was dry dock another third was some product initiatives and enhancements and that reinvesting in the product.
And I indicated that a line of sight at this time we see all the leveraging our scale completely offsetting inflation.
So that’s our best guess at this point in time but as I indicated in my notes we are not going to rest.
We’ll keep working if we’re able to accomplish more that would be great.
We’ll let you know but this is our best guess at this point.
And then one last comment measured capacity growth overall would clearly be very a good thing.
We are not counting on what other people do we can only control ourselves but obviously that would be a good thing.
And I guess… Okay.
…we are running over I guess operator will take one more question at this point.
Thank you.
Two questions for you number one were you much -- to get much more to fill when you gave guidance back in June than normal because the bake on yields seems very surprising in terms of its magnitude given how far into Q3 when you gave that guidance.
And secondly if you could give us an idea of how much inventory you’ve sold already for 2015 both for the U.S.
and Europe? Thank you.
Sure.
Well as far as the third quarter is concerned you really have to break it apart into a number of different pieces because about half of the increase was relating to onboard which we don’t have a lot of visibility into in advance.
And we’re very grateful.
Everything worked well.
All the things we’re doing seem to pan out in the third quarter and we hope that that continues and we see a positive trend.
On the ticket side of things half of the increase in ticket was relating to occupancy -- higher occupancy than we had expected and the other half was higher prices than we expected.
So it was very nice to see forecast that everything go in one particular direction but it was a lot of pieces that came together to create that overall increase and total was $0.11 per share.
In terms of the visibility….
And in terms of the visibility for 2015 is I think we’ve said many times for the next quarter out we are roughly in generally 85% to 95% booked.
When you get into the first quarter of 2015 the second quarter out we are roughly half booked and then as you go out to the second quarter the quarter booked.
So that’s how our historical number is in that where we’re roughly speaking today.
Okay.
And that’s great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
We really appreciate your interest and I’m sure we’ll be talking to some of you in the weeks to come.
But thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!