[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Harry Curtis with Nomura.
Please proceed.
I'm hoping to drill down into the somewhat more conservative than expected outlook for both yields and cost in the fourth quarter.
In your guidance it would imply that there's been a sequential decline in your pricing power in the fourth quarter and so my first question is if you could address whether or not there has been a sequential decline? So there are a couple of factors involved.
We have first of all more difficult comparisons in the fourth quarter than the earlier quarters.
For example in the fourth quarter of 2014 we were up 2.8% whereas in the quarters prior we were up 1.8% actually now 2.2% in the third quarter.
And so it's a tougher comparison.
That's one aspect.
And in addition we are still facing some continued headwinds in Europe that can affect yield.
But overall we are very pleased with the yield result for this year and we have increased our overall guidance for the year in terms of results and are looking to finish the year strong and with the lengthening in the booking curve going to next year well-positioned for continued yield improvement.
How much space do you still have to fill for the fourth quarter is there still some opportunity there to see some stronger pricing in these quarter-end bookings? Typically we say for the current quarter we're at 85% plus booked.
I mean so we are very strongly booked.
We gave our best guess.
And given the strong close in bookings that we saw in the third quarter is part of the reason why we took up the yield guidance for the fourth quarter.
And by the way we took it up both on the ticket and the onboard side.
And so that was the $0.04 improvement that I was talking about in revenue yield for the fourth quarter.
So there might be some more upside but basically we gave you our best shot at the overall yield for the fourth quarter.
And on the cost side could you comment on the fourth quarter cost? Sure.
Harry on the fourth quarter costs remember as I commented on the third quarter what we had indicated was that there was a seasonalization of cost between the third and fourth quarters so there's about $0.04 of cost that we do still expect to spend for the full year but we flow it into the fourth quarter which drove that number up.
A lot of that was advertising and it just has to do with the timing between the quarters.
And the decision to invest to drive revenue and yields next year.
Go ahead Harry.
Okay.
And just the last piece of it on the timing of the delay and did I read this correctly that that should also impact the fourth quarter by $0.04? Yes.
And remember Harry we've said this many times in the call before it's very hard to get the timing of expenses between the quarters correct and you really have to kind of judge us on the full year and we didn't make any change in the overall cost for the full year it's just a flip-flop between the quarters.
The reason I'm drilling down into it and I appreciate that is that we've gotten a number of questions on why the yields are so sequentially or apparently weaker and then the cost apparently higher so I'm just trying to drill into that a bit more but thanks for the color.
Just to follow up just quickly on what Harry just said about this is once again a beat and raise quarter and then the guide seems to be once again a little bit lighter than people expected.
Besides the stock implications I just wanted to know from an operating environment how do you focus your organization on goals if you seem to be not getting to them quarter to quarter? And then separately the yield management system which is interesting that you're going to integrate all of them at least integrate six brands together are you using an outside consultant and are there potential for integration or any other issues which sometimes seen that with other companies and I just wanted to see how that process is going to work? First of all I'll take the second part first on the yield management revenue management system it’s just a system so it's a platform and it involves the [indiscernible] modeling and inquiry systems and what have you we'll just go to a common platform that six brands will initially adopt and over time the other brands may migrate to it as well.
Each of the brands have their own revenue management system today very different platforms some are more sophisticated than others.
So this will be an overall enhancement so two.
And obviously we are using outside resources to help us develop to and implementation has already begun.
So it's part of work that we have undertaken over the last couple of years.
In terms of setting goals and whatnot first of all we think about it over the long-term as well as annually and we manage the business to double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
To do that we have to have solid yield growth we have to contain costs and we have to be disciplined in capital management.
Our teams have performed very well.
This year we just had record earnings we feel very good about it we just increased guidance for the year and we are marching forward.
In fact we are ahead of pace based on this year and that's why I put in the caution that we don't expect always to be ahead of pace but this year we are ahead of pace.
We are going to grow earnings 35% and that's despite drag of a few pennies net of fuel and currency compared to prior year.
I'd just like to add on the fourth quarter that the comparison for transactional currency is greater in the fourth quarter so on a constant currency basis the fourth quarter yields are up 3% relative to the third quarter which was up 5%.
And again the sequential from last year had much more difficult comps in the fourth quarter of last year.
Okay so thank you for that color both of you.
Just Arnold on the yield management system because I think it is very interesting and I think it shows the integration that you have started to put through within the different brands is it really just so that they can see some of the trends that one brand is seeing so it's really more informational or are you going to start to link some of the pricing and mechanisms together or is that sort of step two at some point? The reality is again is the behavior of communicating coordinating and collaborating.
So the yield the revenue management instrument itself is a combined ideation of best practices across the brands and then new ideas from the outside and inside.
So it's an elevation of capabilities that we are going to introduce and six of the brands can adopt it at once.
The other brands already have more sophisticated revenue management tools and will migrate over time as we make the enhancements and refinements to the basic system once it's in place.
So the reality here is our brands are very different from each other they compete in different typographic markets but they can learn from each other and common itineraries and common regions of the world and intelligence in terms of what's happening with booking curves and reactions especially since they all tend to extend chasing newer cruise than chasing different newer cruise individuals because of the typographic profile but they are all chasing newer cruise.
So we've had benefit to date which is why we have had some of the outstanding operating results we've had and this too will allow us to capture even more benefit regardless of the environment.
David in the release and then also in your prepared remarks you gave us some color on the booking curve and on pricing next year.
I'm wondering when you all talk about the pricing being at lower constant dollar prices for next year relative to better bookings can you give us that color in constant currency? Is it also down year-over-year in constant currency? We don't have all the details in constant currency in bookings which is why I gave it to you in constant dollar but we can clearly see a portion of it as I indicated in my remarks for the North American brands was attributed to the transactional currency impact.
So that's part of it.
Yes and I recall you saying that so that's why I was wondering it was kind of begging the question if it were just for the transactional currency or the pricing is the pricing up? The pricing would still be down but less.
But overall when you look at this Felicia when you look at the whole position you got to keep in mind that it's not about where we are today it's about where our goals and what do we want to be at the end of the day when we closeout the first second third and fourth quarter of 2016 and we are driving the booking curve ahead we're well positioned we said we have less to sell.
And so what we are looking to do is to mitigate the discounting that's closer into the sale and to drive yields up for 2016 and we feel very good with all the things that Arnold talked about relative to yield management practices and other things and we feel very confident we'll be able to do that in 2016.
That's great to hear because we're just getting a lot of questions from investors about the pricing power of your brands because it seems like you are in a very good position and Arnold you said earlier that Carnival was booked at better pricing than you have seen since 2008 so just questions on why the pricing why you wouldn't have more pricing power now? Keep in mind though when you start putting all this together keep in mind that we don't necessarily have to raise prices from where we are to finish-up up.
If we discount less as we go forward which is something we have been talking about for quite a while now that we will finish the year 2016 with increased yields as I indicated in my prepared remarks.
I think the simplest statement we can make is for those who are considering cruising next year is better to book now because this is the best time for them to book.
That's very helpful thank you.
And Arnold you've been consistent with your outlook for getting to double-digit ROIC consistently staying up three to four years.
Just wondering if you could help us understand what the starting point or the potential ending point is in terms of year? In the next three or four years.
So are we starting from today or starting from…? No that's three or four years from today yes.
So if fuel stays low and currency improves for us meaning the dollar weakens [indiscernible] gets stronger then we get there sooner.
If not we'll get there in that timeframe or at the tail end of it dependent on what happens with all those dynamics but fundamentally we started out four to five years last year we are down to three to four next year we'll be down to two to three.
Just as a point of reference at the midpoint of our September guidance we'll be about 7% ROIC for 2015.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
Going back to David in 2016 I understand when you talk about pricing being down it makes sense especially in North America given your pricing strategy but when you look at the EAA markets I guess that's the one that's a little bit more surprising.
So what I'm trying to get at is as you look at the EAA markets are there any markets that would particularly stand out to you that are a little bit more challenging at this point? Overall Continental Europe is probably more challenging.
When you think about all of the economic difficulties and the geopolitical issues and the growing refugee concerns that's the area that has had the most challenges in terms of pricing for 2016 but we've had these challenges all year in 2015 to some extent and we are forecasting that we are going to get yield improvement for our EAA brands for 2015.
So hopefully despite all these challenges we'll be able to do that in 2016 as well.
And one of the things to keep in mind as well is we are also seeing a transfer we have announced the Costa Fortuna will be going to Asia in 2016.
So Costa will have reduced capacity which also helps play in less supply in this type of environment which should help yields for 2016.
The other comment too is to just keep in mind and I know why you guys focused on yield and we do too but there is another aspect to this we can be return accretive and drive return on invested capital in certain markets across certain brands even with some challenging yield and that results from just capacity additions and overall improvement in total mix and onboard revenues et cetera.
So while yield is definitely a key metric and we totally focus on it as well slower than you might expect yield growth does not necessarily equals slower than you might expect return accretion.
And just to follow up on that the Asian component of that EAA you guys are still pretty encouraged about what you are seeing so far for 2016? Absolutely.
Asia again that will be a good case in point China yields may come down a bit but they're going to be return accretive because of the significant increase in capacity.
Now at the same time with that capacity increase they are still going to represent 5% of our total capacity and by having the capacity there it actually reduces our capacity growth in the rest of the world.
And so we won't be happy even though we have 3.7% capacity growth for next year.
Only 2% of it is outside of the Asian market.
And so 2% capacity growth in the rest of the world is reasonably conservative growth for us in the current environment which is also good.
David can I ask you one more question in terms of the NCC I know you talked about next year that that being slightly up or that's what you guys are seeing right now I guess maybe what is driving what potentially would drive that up next year and is there anything are there any levers that you guys can pull especially on the marketing side given where the Carnival brand is in terms of their pricing now relative to where it was back in 2008? Just real quickly before David comments and we will give you guys full guidance in December we are about to go through our planning meetings that David mentioned we are evaluating all the reviews from the brands in terms of investment spending they may want to make in digital media broadcast media events and PR promotions and other things to drive demand.
So we'll take a hard look at all that.
Our plan is to deliver the double-digit return on invested capital and we're not going to save our way there but we also have a focus on cost containment.
And as I've mentioned to you in previous calls we are focused on cost containment for two reasons one is the drag on earnings but the other one is it creates the dollars to invest to drive revenue.
And so we are achieving the cost savings that we set out to do and then the question is whether that will flow through the bottom line are we going to invest them to drive yield.
The investments we have made to date appear to have paid off because of the significant improvements and the business and we'll be taking a hard look at that going forward.
And I went through some of the areas I mean Arnold just talked about the investments that we could potentially make and we'll evaluate but the other things that I had mentioned in my notes are the fact that while headline inflation is zero because of commodity prices there is inflation in certain areas of our business and we built that into our 2016 numbers as well.
But offsetting all of that we are looking at leveraging our scale.
We had talked about the fact that we saved $70 million to $80 million in 2015 and we're working hard to do something similar for 2016 and we also have some benefit from the reduced drydock days as well.
So it's a combination of all those things which let me to give you guidance that cost could be up slightly next year.
So I do have a question that I was in line for already but first I just wanted to clarify Arnold you just said something about Asia yield I'm just wondering was that a theoretical comment you said something about Asia yields may come down next year but it would still be return accretive was that kind of theoretical or is that describing what you're seeing with yields? It's too early to delve on that but it's plausible and it's possible but it's too early to conclude that at this point in time.
But what would not be too early to conclude is that if the yields come down it will still be return accretive.
Robin I'm surprised you're this deep into the call.
If I heard a question from you so normally… I tried to get in line earlier.
So I just wanted to clarify so that was you weren't giving that as a guidance you were just sort of saying as theoretical… No that was for example.
Okay great.
And then so my original question was this I think the comments about expenses shifting between quarters and your yields going up for this year I think that's pretty straightforward that it's a better outlook than the year started.
My question was really on 2016 and I know that David you mentioned that certain things about the base of comparison getting better means that your prices wouldn't necessarily have to change but I guess I just wanted to clarify in your June release you talked about 2016 prices being lower due to FX and then in this release you said prices are lower in constant currency and so I understand that lower prices but higher volume means that you can raise prices as you get closer but can you just kind of clarify if we were talking about apples to apples what you are seeing now versus what you were seeing in June just because the commentary and the release is kind of on a different basis so just sort of what happened with pricing for 2016 just since June? It's really an apples and oranges comparison because in June the comments that we were making related to the back half of 2015 the last two quarters and the first quarter of 2016 whereas the comments I made here related to the first half of 2016.
So because the prior year comparisons are different it's hard to read in and these are apples and oranges comparison because they are different time periods.
So if you were talking about just the 2016 what would you have seen just incrementally since June on just the 2016? As we had indicated in the third quarter I mean we had seen a 20% increase in volume.
I mean we were very pleased with the volume but we did say it was at lower prices so we are driving the booking curve ahead and overall we believe we'll get yield improvement for 2016.
I will just add to David's comment to December it's too early to give yield guidance for 2016 but if you're saying what's the feeling compared to June I would just say that we remain very confident in our ability to drive directionally towards the double-digit return on invested capital in next three or four years.
To do that we have to have solid yield improvement and we feel very confident probably even more confident than we did in June that we can deliver on solid yield improvement next year and that's despite some of the headwinds that today exist in Europe and by the time we get to December maybe those things won't be the same but today with some of the headwinds in Europe geopolitical macroeconomic malaise the intense tension over there around the refugee situation that has affected all travel not just cruise but all travel.
So those things may still be present or they may wane between now and when we get to December but we will give you full guidance then.
A couple of quick follow-ups here.
So sort of going back to handicapping the yield guide for the fourth quarter remind us what the mix of business is between the Caribbean and Europe 3Q versus 4Q? I don't know if you have those numbers in front of you but it seems to me that your mix of European business goes down your mix of Caribbean business goes way up European business is trending not quite as well as or not nearly as well as your Caribbean business it sounds like.
So it seems like there is a pretty nice sequential yield benefit just from mix.
Help us dimentionalize that am I thinking about that the right way? I think I'll just start with a general comment.
From a deployment standpoint I think that's a fair statement and David will certainly comment on those numbers but I think the comment we are making from a source market perspective we are still sourcing a substantial amount of consumers in the third and fourth quarter and that doesn't change from quarter to quarter.
On the deployment in terms of whether ships are sailing David? In the third quarter it's about a quarter of our capacity is in the Caribbean and 45% in Europe and that goes up to 30% in the Caribbean in the fourth quarter and Europe goes down to 30%.
So you are right there are more ships in the Caribbean and less in Europe in total in the fourth quarter than the third but I think you have to remember that on a year-over-year basis it was a similar trend in 2014.
And so when you are comparing year-over-year you are comparing then apples and apples and as Arnold indicated we saw some pretty good yield improvement in the fourth quarter of 2014 and so as a result of that yield improvement we are guiding to 3% constant currency yield increase in the fourth quarter which may be down slightly from the third but remember the fourth quarter last year was higher than the third quarter last year in improvement.
So it is a more difficult comparison.
Got it that makes sense.
And then maybe this is slicing the information a little bit too finely but obviously at the end of your quarter at the end of August stock market was in freefall.
Could you see any discernible change in demand over that period of time and if so has that then recovered so far during the month of September? We did not see any falloff in demand related to stock market or general economic fluctuations none whatsoever.
Okay.
And then just last question for me sort of going back to this lengthening of the booking curve basically it seems like David what you are saying here is that we should very much expect bookings to be up and prices maybe to be flat to down just based on how you are doing your pricing strategy.
I guess the question is A is that right is that what we should expect going forward and B does that have any impact on your guidance in that a lot of the pricing strength that you are going to get is ultimately going to be close in? I guess the other way to put it is are you assuming that close-in pricing is better in your guidance or are you sticking to a wait-and-see approach with respect to the close-in numbers in light of the new pricing strategy? By moving the booking driving the booking curve further out we are actually hoping to have a lot less to sell closer in overall and we are looking at it as a situation where as we have said before what we want to do is have people book early it is the best time to book because the pricing will only go up and there won't be last-minute deep discounting to fill those cabins.
That's the strategy we've been talking about for about two years now.
And so as a result of that I think we're on the right path towards good yield improvement for 2016.
There are other factors in addition to transactional currency and stuff that influence the appearance of early pricing and yields.
We have targeted affinity groups that some of the brands target.
They book earlier that kind of make the yield look lower but in fact it's just coming sooner then it's spread over time with those affinity groups.
Those affinity groups have big onboard spend patterns and overall we yield in total very nicely on those.
Of course we don't have the onboard revenue yield factored in to this at this point in time.
So there are a lot of dynamics that can influence what it looks like early.
Some of it is just pricing philosophy of a brand and some is just booking patterns and charters and all that can come into play as well as affinity groups to fill out cabin to drive onboard revenue.
Most of my questions have been answered but I'm curious if you guys have changed your hedging strategy at all now that energy prices are pretty low and they look like they're going to be sustained at low levels for some time going ahead? Our policy has been to use the cash flow as collars.
We have already I believe 48% of 2016 already collared and the future pricing which is what you have to establish the collars on is not the same of course as the spot pricing.
At this point in time we have seen no advantage to unwinding those collars or anything to that effect.
When we looked at it once earlier this year we would take them and then if we had done it we would have lost on both ends unwinding and then setting new collars.
And so at this point wouldn't have any particular plans to change but we review it constantly.
And we also as you can see in our filings we have got the cash flow collars for 2017 and 2018 as well and so we are well positioned and well hedged at this point in time but we continually re-evaluate it as Arnold indicated.
Arnold and Mickey and I and Josh Weinstein our Treasurer frequently get together and talk about it and take a look at it and review input from other sources as well.
Okay.
And then for Europe you guys had discussed a couple of areas that were struggling.
Was there any geography that came in really well ahead of expectations overseas? First comment I'd like to make is that our European brands have performed well.
So I don't want to leave an impression like they are stumbling and bumbling or anything they performed well and as David mentioned EAA [indiscernible] despite all the stuff we've been talking about and that has occurred this year we have seen yield improvement and have seen return improvement.
So that's the first comment.
The second comment is that Continental Europe has been hit hardest.
We have seen we have the 175th anniversary year for Cunard that was a very successful year for the Cunard brand.
We had the spectacular launch of the Britannia which helped elevate the entire P&amp;O brand.
So the U.K.
did well very well this year.
And again AIDA continues to perform in Germany despite capacity introduction from competitors as well as just also the impact of sailings related to geopolitical tensions and so on and so forth.
But the brands continue to do well and are doing better collectively than they have in the past and we expect that to continue into next year despite the challenges.
Just a couple of things here on the booking curve you mentioned several times that you'll continue to push to lengthen that or being successful in doing so.
Historically if we go back pre lot of incidents and the financial crisis from that the industry was running about a six-month window on bookings.
Could you tell us specifically where you're at right now and sort of where do you consider the sweet nirvana spot to balance that don't give away too much upside on remaining bookings versus give enough all into persuade the consumer that they will understand and get the best price the earlier they book? The sweet spot will vary over time as you would expect as people change environments change and those types of things.
So I don't think there is a nirvana.
That's something that we continue to look at over time and will evaluate that.
But where we stand today as I talked about in my notes the North American brands were well ahead.
So the North American brands are at a higher end of the historical booking curve whereas the EAA brands which I said were in line with the prior year while they are still within the historical booking curves they are at the lower half of the historical booking curve.
So it's a mix of two worlds.
As we have talked before the strength of the economy in North America clearly has helped shape the booking curves in the two segments of our business.
And David is there a specific number where you are on a global blended basis or a specific those ranges of historical booking curve ranges that you are referring to? We've given you the ranges before and as I said North America is in the higher half and EAA is in the lower half and for competitive reasons that's all the detail I want to share.
Okay fair.
Regarding the 2016 cost that you said would be up slightly at this point on that cruise cost should we think about that you are winding down the accelerated dry docks in the first half of 2016 and therefore from a cadence standpoint all else being equal and assuming that you are increased marketing or other investments would be spread evenly would we expect the first half of the year to have a little more skew of that higher cost versus the back half? It's very early to tell so it's very hard.
We have not gone through we have a difficult time and uptime analyzing it quarter by quarter within 2015 as you saw the timing of expenses between the third and fourth quarters that I referred to.
So it's very difficult to tell this early in the year where we are.
The one thing that I did mention relating to the first quarter or the first half is that there is a significant transactional currency impact particularly in the first quarter.
And so as you think about next year keep that in mind.
This is Assia.
I will just ask one question.
Given that last year Europe was surprisingly a strong performer was [indiscernible] this year the Caribbean seems to be the star performer.
So it seems that especially for Q4 and Q1 when we have a lot more of the ships being deployed in the Caribbean and the Bahamas there probably is a lot of upside especially given your good booked position at this point.
Would you Arnold and David and Beth agree with this? I would say again we're not going to give any more guidance for 2016 it's too early for us.
But the reality is that Carnival outperformed late last year as well and they continue to outperform throughout this year the Carnival brand which is primarily in the Caribbean.
They have had an outstanding year with strong demand and strong yield as reflected in everything we said to this point and reflected on the fact we've raised guidance for the full year.
So we have a lot of momentum there and we feel very good about it but at this point it's too early to give firm yield guidance on anything for 2016.
And Arnold it seems that the Carnival brand was very helpful in terms of the excellent Q3 results? Absolutely yes.
All the brands [indiscernible].
We had growth in both sides of the Atlantic as David pointed out but the Carnival brand definitely outperformed again yes.
Okay.
Thank you Arnold for taking my questions.
Again congratulations on a great Q3.
We'll take one more call operator.
So two quick questions I guess capacity growth did that change for the fourth quarter given the AIDA delay and what are you expecting for capacity now? Yes it did change a little bit.
For the year our capacity growth came down to 1.7% and for the fourth quarter it's 2.3%.
Okay perfect.
And then I think you changed some commission structure elements at the Carnival brand.
Can you talk about that and kind of what the travel agent response has been and whether that's something you are assessing within the other brands? Fundamentally for the Carnival brand to get everyone up to speed we basically allow people to achieve a certain payout at a lower tier level in the commission structure.
That was a combination of one acknowledgment to travel professional partners for the great work and contributions they have made to our success this year and also just the recognition for the brand and their Carnival conversations discussing the travel professionals changes that the travel professionals thought would really make a difference and would balance things from their perspective.
So it's in response to input from the travel professional partners and the acknowledgment of their contributions and what we thought it would take to help them help us sustain the momentum.
Each brand does their own evaluation.
The brands have some overlap in travel professional partners.
There is also [indiscernible] because the guests are different and each brand makes its own evaluation and Carnival brand was starting from a different point just some of the other brands were so that all of the brands will make independently their decision.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Everyone thank you very much again.
We appreciate your interest.
We feel great about the quarter.
We have increased guidance for the year.
We feel strongly looking ahead that we are on a good path to deliver the double-digit return on invested capital in the next three to four years.
We see solid yield improvements for next year.
We'll give you actual yield guidance and stuff in December as well as tighter cost guidance for the future but we feel very good about the business and the momentum and we thank you for your interest.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!