Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter 2013 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that I will turn it over to Jim for his comments.
Jim? Think you Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2013 conference call.
Despite continuing to operate in challenging times AK Steel continues to make progress and service to our customers and on behalf of our shareholders and other constituents.
In facing and overcoming adversity our values and our approach have not changed.
Our focus has been and will continue to be on taking good care of our people and our customers on lowering costs and creating value for our shareholders.
Speaking of overcoming adversity let me comment on the status of our Middletown Works blast furnace.
Following an unplanned outage that began back on June 22 we performed the necessary repairs and got the blast furnace back online approximately 3 weeks later.
The furnace has run reasonably well since then but not as well as we initially thought and it did not return to its full capacity during the third quarter.
Accordingly in early October we took a 3-day outage to address the productivity shortfall.
As we've stated in our third quarter earnings guidance and in our third quarter earnings release that was sent out earlier today the lower level of slab production during the third quarter had 3 consequences: first it increased our cost per ton; second it lowered our shipments; and third we were unable to enjoy a portion of our recently announced spot market price increases for carbon steel.
Based on our recent performance however we believe that we are now back to full production capacity at the Middletown furnace.
And accordingly we expect to enjoy the associated higher production higher shipments lower unit costs and higher selling prices going forward.
I might add that major maintenance outages in the fourth quarter of 2013 will be much less in scope and in cost than those that took place in the third quarter.
At AK Steel our people and our customers are invaluable to our company.
With both of these groups in mind let me provide a brief update on how we're performing when it comes to keeping our people safe and providing great products for our customers.
The safety of our employees remains our company's highest priority.
With only 3 OSHA recordable injuries throughout the company for the third quarter of 2013 we tied our best ever performance for a third quarter.
Shifting gears from employees to customers at AK Steel we strive to serve our customers better than any other steelmaker with a combination of superior product quality on-time delivery and outstanding customer service.
Based on these metrics we continue to shine in the eyes of our customers.
Compared to our carbon steel integrated competitors AK Steel was ranked #1 in quality customer service and on-time delivery for the third quarter.
Collectively these performances translated into a #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our carbon steel market.
Our third quarter performance with our specialty steel customers also earned us the #1 rating in overall customer satisfaction in our specialty steel markets.
Great performances and great ratings don't simply happen.
Our employees make them happen.
I'm proud of their efforts and I congratulate our employees on a job very well done for our customers.
Speaking of our customers I'll only take a couple of moments to comment on what we're seeing in our served markets.
Overall it's a bit of a mixed bag in a rather mixed economic environment.
On the positive front the automotive market continues to be very strong.
In fact our third quarter automotive shipments were the second highest quarterly total since the first quarter of 2008.
Only the second quarter of this year 2013 the automotive shipments were higher than the just completed quarter.
Except for seasonal maintenance shutdowns and model year changeovers our third quarter 2013 automotive shipments frankly would have been our strongest in 5.5 years.
We've been very fortunate to grow our automotive shipments faster than the overall market's growth and we're also fortunate to be serving automotive customers whose market share is growing.
I really don't think that's a coincidence.
In fact I think that we're helping ourselves with the superior quality on-time delivery and best-in-class customer service that I referenced earlier.
Indeed the trends for automotive production and consumption have been very good ones for AK Steel.
NAFTA light vehicle production forecasted at 16.2 million units for this year is on pace for its highest level in a decade and domestic light vehicle sales are on pace for 15.5 million units.
That would be the highest on record since the year 2007.
The outlook for 2014 is also quite good and even beyond that as automakers begin to look at making more automobiles in America for consumption here and for export around the world.
Making things in America has an awfully nice ring to it doesn't it? Breaking steel the strength in the automotive sector has been beneficial across nearly all of our product lines.
We've certainly seen the benefits in carbon steel for exposed and unexposed body parts as well as in specialty stainless for example at our Coshocton Works where we make bright trim and in the automotive chrome business and for automotive exhaust applications.
Nearly all of our automotive sales represent contract sales.
As a company we want to continue to grow our contract business especially automotive and selectively reduce our participation in the typically volatile spot market.
Give you a sense of perspective a couple of years ago our mix of contract to spot sales was roughly 50-50.
For the third quarter of this year that ratio was closer to 75-25.
And going forward that's really where we want to be or perhaps even 80-20.
In addition to the strength in automotive the service center business has also gotten a bit better.
Our spot market order intake rates have improved.
And in order to match customer needs with our production capabilities and to cover our costs we raised our spot market hot-rolled selling prices to $680 per ton on October 1.
This pricing level is about $100 per ton higher than the low point in 2013.
Service center inventories for carbon steel products are down 25% from the peak of the cycle in August of 2008.
And at the end of September they stood at just over 2.4 months of supply on hand which is below the historical average for September of about 2.7 months.
Stainless steel inventory levels of service centers are also fairly tight with only 2.9 months of supply on hand well below the historical average of 3.8 months.
The construction market also appears to be gaining some ground.
In fact total construction spending in 2013 is on pace to exceed $900 billion for the first time since the onset of the Great Recession.
Leading the way has been private construction which has rebounded by more than 40% since its low point in early 2009.
In addition to the well-publicized housing market recovery the non-residential side is once again seeing signs of strength.
Non-res construction which is much more steel intensive I might add rose by more than 7%.
And each of 2011 and '12 and for 2013 the full year growth rate is projected at about 3% with the fourth quarter of 2013 expected to rise by more than 5%.
So in summary automotive is up.
So is housing and industrial production.
Construction is trending positively.
And -- but for a down month in September consumer confidence has also been rising as has the Purchasing Managers Index.
And while all of that is good news and should bode well for the future let me take a moment to provide an update on the ongoing challenges we're facing in the electrical steel market and what we're doing about them.
As I mentioned the housing market a major driver of demand for electrical steel for use in transformers has been improving in 2013.
Housing starts are up nearly 20% from this time 1 year ago.
However much of the housing growth has been in multi-family units that use less steel per household and do not utilize the highest-efficiency electrical steel products typically used in single-family homes.
In addition we've seen America become the world's dumping ground for electrical steel.
At AK Steel we can compete with any steelmaker anywhere anytime.
However we cannot and we should not have to compete with unfairly traded imports which are dumped here at below-cost prices and are subsidized by foreign governments which is exactly what we are competing against today.
In order to maintain our competitiveness trade cases are important tools that are available to assist in remedying this type of situation.
Accordingly with clear unfair trade practices occurring we recently brought 2 trade cases in order to defend ourselves.
One of the cases involves grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES products and the other case involves non-oriented electrical steel products sometimes referred to as NOES products N-O-E-S that is.
We are most interested in competing on a level playing field with our international electrical steel competitors.
We strongly urge the U.S.
Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission to bring a halt to these unfair trade practices that have caused material injury to the company.
With that update on NAFTA electrical steels let me provide some commentary on the international electrical steel market environment.
With growth rates having slowed in Asia coupled with the ongoing uncertainty associated with the Eurozone financial crisis and with a significant increase in global production of GOES products the international market for GOES has significantly deteriorated.
As one might imagine this has resulted in excess capacity and downward pricing pressure.
And as a consequence our international shipments of GOES products have declined and are expected to remain at historically low levels in the near to intermediate term.
At AK Steel we continue to see solid longer-term potential for global high-efficiency electrical steels as the demand for energy in the world continues to grow.
As developing countries evolve energy is really at the core of that growth and for developed countries the implementation of new efficiency standards is a key.
AK Steel will continue to serve our international customers through global sales offices technical support and product innovation all of which have established our company as a premier global supplier of electrical steels.
As we await the continued recovery of the U.S.
and global economies I suppose you could say that we're in the self-help business.
That's because we're not waiting for others to help us.
We're helping ourselves by controlling those items that we can control lowering our costs wherever possible and bringing our strategic raw material investments to fruition.
Speaking of our raw material investments I'm excited to provide an update on the progress that we're making on vertically integrating to the 50% level in terms of both the iron ore and coal.
Magnetation a JV in which AK Steel owns 49.9% continues to accelerate its construction activities.
On budget and somewhat ahead of schedule the new pellet plant in Indiana is well on its way to producing its first-- excuse me high-quality low-cost pellets to feed AK's blast furnaces within the next year.
Barring any unexpected construction delays we expect the start-up of the pellet plant's operations in the fourth quarter of 2014 or perhaps even sooner.
The ramp-up to full production is expected in 2015.
Suffice it to say that the Magnetation project is all that we thought it would be and then some.
We're also making excellent progress with AK Coal's first mine the North Fork mine which is located in Somerset County PA.
We're increasing the volume of low-vol coal that's being mined at AK Coal and I'm pleased to report that the quality of the product is as expected very good.
However in light of current and anticipated near-term coal pricing we've elected to defer the opening of the second and third mines.
We'll continue with the permitting activities associated with those mines but the timing of the opening of mines 2 and 3 will depend on future coal market conditions.
The fact is that the low-vol coal reserves aren't going to go anywhere.
And when it makes good economic since in the future to mine more of our own coal we'll do that.
Each of these investments Magnetation and AK Coal are very important to our future as we enhance our long-term supply on a very cost-competitive basis.
Upon completion and full ramp-up these facilities will be among the lowest-cost producers of low-vol met coal and iron ore pellets in North America.
And when the ramp-ups are complete we will have achieved our goal of being approximately 50% self-sufficient in our key steelmaking inputs of coal and iron ore.
In closing my prepared remarks let me say that while we're not providing specific guidance at this time for the fourth quarter of 2013 we've clearly set the stage for our fourth quarter financial results to exceed those of the third quarter.
Among other reasons we expect improved sequential quarterly performance due to lower maintenance outage costs higher production volumes and lower unit costs as a result and increased shipments.
Let me add that we also expect working capital to be a significant source of cash in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2013.
We'll have more to say about our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2013 in December.
But rest assured our focus will continue to be on taking good care of our people serving customers better than others lowering costs and widening margins in order to enhance our earnings and cash flow.
And although it's been another challenging year in 2013 we intend to finish on a high note with our best quarter of the year and to leverage off of that success as we turn the calendar to 2014.
At AK Steel we continue to make progress in service to our customers.
And on behalf of our shareholders and other constituents I remain highly confident that our best days are indeed ahead of us.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
And now to review our financial performance in more detail here's our CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $31.7 million or $0.23 per share for the third quarter of 2013 which was in line with our guidance.
Our results reflect an improvement of roughly $9 million or $0.07 per share compared to the second quarter.
Our third quarter results were impacted by the unplanned outage at our Middletown Works blast furnace.
As we have previously indicated during the third quarter we incurred costs of approximately $12 million or $0.09 per share pretax related to the unplanned outage.
This was the net impact after taking into an account a partial recovery from our insurers during the third quarter.
Our results for the quarter also included $4 million in planned major maintenance outage costs which was about $18 million lower than the $22 million we incurred in the second quarter.
Thus while these outages dampened our performance for the quarter we still improved our financial results.
Our shipments for the third quarter of 2013 decreased by 81 000 tons or approximately 6% to 1 242 400 tons compared to the second quarter of 2013 but were consistent with our guidance.
The unplanned Middletown blast furnace outage which reduced our melt production as well as the seasonal reduction in shipments to the auto market resulted in the overall reduction in shipments during the third quarter.
Further while we continue to honor our commitments to customers for lower-priced orders placed prior to the unplanned outage at Middletown we were not able to take full advantage of the price increases in the carbon spot market which occurred during the quarter.
This resulted in an average selling price for the third quarter of $1 071 per ton an increase of $10 per ton or roughly 1% compared to the second quarter and slightly better than our guidance.
The average selling price in the third quarter reflects a more favorable mix of value-added shipments which was largely offset by lower raw material surcharges as well as the impact of delayed shipments caused by the blast furnace outage.
Revenues for the third quarter totaled $1 331 000 000 roughly 5% lower than the prior quarter.
In the third quarter we benefited from a LIFO credit of $15.8 million.
This compares to a LIFO credit of $12.4 million in the second quarter.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the noncontrolling interests which are included in our operating results.
Our noncontrolling interests consist primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the noncontrolling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2013 was $53.5 million or $43 per ton.
This is an improvement of $6 million or $7 per ton compared to the second quarter.
Our third quarter performance reflects a nearly 13% improvement over the second quarter.
Moving to our results for the 9 months of 2013.
Shipments for the first 9 months of 2013 were 3 855 900 tons a 4% decrease compared to the first 9 months of 2012.
We are pleased to have achieved higher automotive market shipments during this time frame as compared to the same time period in 2012.
However the higher automotive shipments were more than offset by lower spot market carbon and electrical steel shipments.
Our average selling price for the first 9 months of 2013 was $1 065 per ton a decrease of $55 per ton or 5% compared to the first 9 months of last year.
Revenues for the first 3 quarters were $4.1 billion compared to approximately $4.5 billion in the first 3 quarters of 2012.
In regards to our operations we incurred $27 million in planned major maintenance outage costs during the first 9 months of 2013 compared to roughly $30 million during the first 9 months of 2012.
However as previously mentioned we also incurred $18 million of unplanned outage costs during the first 3 quarters of 2013.
At the bottom line for the first 9 months of 2013 we reported a net loss of $82 million compared to a net loss of $797 million for the first 9 months of 2012.
Our results for the first 9 months of 2012 included a noncash income tax charge of approximately $769 million as a result of a change in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance recorded in the second quarter of 2012.
Turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement for the third quarter of 2013 our capital investments totaled $14 million slightly less than in the second quarter.
As expected working capital consumed approximately $29 million of cash during the third quarter partly reflecting a normal seasonal fluctuation in inventories as well as the impact from the unplanned blast furnace outage that occurred at the end of the second quarter.
It is important to note that despite the impact of the unplanned blast furnace outage our continued focus on working capital management resulted in a significant improvement compared to what we have typically experienced in the first 9 months of the year.
In the first 9 months of 2013 working capital consumed $92 million.
In comparison in the first 9 months of both 2011 and 2012 working capital consumed more than $200 million in each of those periods.
The primary drivers of this improved performance over prior years is related to our continued efforts to lower our raw material inventories.
Importantly we still expect working capital to be a source of cash in the fourth quarter as well as a source of cash for the full year of 2013.
Taking all of these factors into account we ended the third quarter of 2013 with solid liquidity of more than $800 million.
With this solid liquidity level we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and their operations as well as execute our strategic initiatives.
Let me take a moment to comment on our pension and VEBA funding.
In the third quarter we completed a $69 million pension contribution.
Earlier this month we also completed a $41 million pension contribution which has now fulfilled our pension funding requirement of $181 million for the year 2013.
Also during the third quarter we completed the final contribution of $28 million to the Butler VEBA as well as the first of 3 annual installment payments of $3 million each to the -- to fund the Zanesville VEBA.
Effective January 1 2015 all future OPEB obligations related to the Butler retirees will become the responsibility of the Butler VEBA trust.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the fourth quarter of 2013 in December.
In advance of that guidance I would note that we do expect our fourth quarter financial results to be impacted by the unplanned Middletown blast furnace outage but to a much lesser extent than the third quarter.
While we continue to refine our estimate for the total impact of the loss we currently expect that the total uninsured portion of the blast furnace unplanned outage will be between $20 million and $23 million $18 million of which we have already incurred in the second and third quarter of 2013.
This leaves an impact of approximately $2 million to $5 million that we would expect in the fourth quarter.
We continue to work with our property and business interruption underwriters on the claim and we anticipate filing most if not all of our insurance claim in the fourth quarter.
However this timing is subject to us reaching a final agreement with our insurers on the insured portion of the loss.
Despite the remaining impact from the unplanned outage we expect improved fourth quarter results compared to the third quarter.
Let me conclude by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley please go ahead with your question.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to think about how to model pricing and calendar year contract resets for 2014.
And just given where spot prices have gone it feels like the carbon contracts could be up the electrical steel contracts probably down a little bit.
Should we be thinking of that as somewhat of a wash? Or how do you see that playing out as we go into next year? I guess I'd start here with respect to contract business.
Again a lot of our business these days as I mentioned last quarter probably in that 75% range is of a contract nature.
Just perhaps for the benefit of a number of people on the call we have contracts with automotive and other customers that first off they're all unique.
They expire at varying times throughout the year.
Said another way we're currently in contract discussions with several auto customers and others will come up throughout 2014.
We are indeed seeking and will continue to seek higher prices and we'll also seek continued participation as we want to grow the contract part of our business.
In addition to automotive contracts of course we have other contracts in some cases with appliance manufacturers or HVAC manufacturers and certainly with electrical steel producers transformers and so forth.
So again those all vary.
What we did not really come prepared to do today and I think it's a bit premature is to sort of give guidance with respect to the various components of our contract sales and overall.
We'll have more to say about that in January.
But again I just emphasize that those are not all reset in January.
Fact of the matter is a lot have been -- a lot of things have been written recently about pricing.
We're going to price our products at a level that allows us to meet our needs right and to generate the kind of cash flow and profitable business that we need.
The one thing I always tell our sales force here is to never apologize for price increases to the extent that they cover our costs which we have done sufficiently here for a while.
I think we've taken reasonably good care of our people and our customers.
We have to do a better job frankly as a company taking care of the other very important constituent namely our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And at the risk of asking one more premature question how about 2014 coal contracts? I know those negotiations are under way right now.
It seems like they could slip a little bit.
Any color there? I'll start and Roger can kind of fill in the blanks.
Our view generally with respect to commodities is that they should go our way a bit.
We expect prices for both iron ore and coal to fall in 2014.
We're negotiating certain items.
I think our friends at Cliffs came out with an announcement earlier in the third quarter about a deal that we've done together and we're very placed with that deal as it relates to iron ore.
I don't know that we are the best prognosticators Evan with respect to those prices and where things are heading.
My sense is that it might be a single-digit percentage decline year-over-year when you bake everything together.
But clearly we're seeing lower prices.
On the other hand there are those who pontificate that we're simply taking a pause a dip if you will in the longer term super cycle for commodities.
And I think the short answer is nobody knows with a high degree of certainty which direction the long term will be for raw materials.
What I do know is this and I feel very good about it that we're not betting that prices will go up or go down.
In fact what we bet is that we'll hedge our bet that we very much like our position going forward with Magnetation AK Coal which says that we'll buy half of our needs in the open market and we'll provide half of our needs with those investments.
So if raw material prices fall we'll get a -- hits [ph] in the open market.
And if they rise we'll get a benefit from our strategic investments.
That's the best I can do for you.
Our next question comes from David Katz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the stepping back on the development of mines 2 and 3 at AK Coal it was my memory that at current sort of spot/contract prices that you'd be substituting the AK Coal for the AK Coal tonnage where those still have been profitable.
Why are you moving back a little bit on that? Well Dave when you look at the AK Coal as you're aware we did start up the first mine.
We started mining back in June and that has been going as expected.
We're working on getting the permits for the other mines.
And as we move forward AK Coal will be providing as part of our coal needs next year.
We also have taken advantage of purchasing some coal and running it through our Coal Innovations facility our coal washing plant at AK Coal.
So we are utilizing the assets there to supply our coal -- part of our coal needs.
As Jim correctly noted we -- ultimately our goal is to get 1 million tons of our self-sufficiency and our target was to do that in 2015.
So we're still in a transition period.
But given what's going on in the coal industry and what we're seeing in the marketplace we're moving forward at a cautious pace.
We have -- as Jim mentioned we have the coal reserves there.
They're not going anywhere.
And so the market price moves on coal that will help drive what we decide to do in our ramp-up for the other mines.
David I'd just say sometimes when you can't change the direction of the wind you have to adjust your sails.
We're adjusting our sails.
Given those fundamentals that Roger referred to in today's coal market we'll decelerate a bit and ramp-up AK Coal when it makes good sense.
So and that's the situation at present.
But to be clear we very much like our strategy long term.
We still like mining 50% of our coal down the road.
We'll continue to push forward with all permitting activities there's been no halt or delay with respect to those items.
And frankly if coal prices move higher faster we'll accelerate our coal mining activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the past I believe you guys have indicated that you expected to invest $60 million in AK Coal from between 2013 and 2015.
If the adjustment of the sales to which you alluded extends throughout the entirety of 2014 how would that lower the CapEx from that year? I would say it would not be a huge item.
If you looked at for AK Coal in total we said that the total investment was $96 million.
To date we have invested $57 million.
So we still have a little more we're investing there.
We've been selectively making capital investments to make sure we can meet the needs that we need for our coal and how we're mining and the equipments to support the mine that we're currently operating.
And so the timing of the remaining of that will move along as one we got to get the permits that's #1 which we're still moving forward to get the permits.
And then once we get that the timing of the rest of the remaining roughly $40 million will be spread out over time.
Our next question comes from Sohail Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Pardon me if some of these things you have mentioned I was a little late in the call.
I wanted to understand the tax rate for fourth quarter.
How should we think about it? Roger? Well I would just comment as you know in the second quarter that we switched to the discrete method for taxes.
So going forward I would continue to take that same approach we had in the second quarter and third quarter.
As you know year-to-date we're at $14 million of tax expense.
And our tax fluctuation is really based on what happens with our LIFO reserve.
So Sohail I would just add our taxes have been very challenging to understand ever since we've recorded the reserves for the deferred tax assets.
For example in a quarter where we have a loss of the taxes exacerbates that loss because of the benefit associated with that.
That is a LIFO strategy.
Similarly if one were hypothetically to be in a profitable situation the taxes could benefit that.
So it's going to continue to be challenging.
We'll do our very best to point that out the -- in our guidance and in our release.
But one of these days hopefully it will return to more normal-type taxes.
But I would comment our year-to-date we have had $34 million of LIFO credit and you're taking the tax effect of that as basically as our tax expense.
It's pretty much the main driver.
So whatever you would project for LIFO credit in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then next quickly any comment on the pension tailwind in 2014 from the discount rate and better asset returns this year? Let me start and again Roger can fill in the details.
I think things are moving directionally very favorably for us.
As we've said in the past every 25% move in the discount rate's worth about $75 million.
I think that number in recent discussions with our actuaries is it's closer to $90 million.
So 1% move might shrink the delta between our assets and our liabilities by something like $350 million.
Of course we haven't closed the books yet.
We'll see what happens to interest rates between now and the end of the year but clearly that's moving in a very positive fashion.
I think the other thing Sohail that I'd just take the opportunity to mention and to highlight is we've peaked or nearly peaked in terms of the pension contributions.
Long time ago we locked and froze the pension plans.
We've had excellent pension performance the discount rate's moving in our direction.
And we've now made all of our pension contributions for this year.
Next year be in that $200 million kind of range.
But as we look out to say 2015 and again without a lot of fine-tuning here we should see the movement of our contribution decline by $80 million to $100 million kind of range.
So it is a meaningful delta in terms of the cash needs to fund the pension as we get out to 2015.
And I might just tag team with that it's also a meaningful delta with respect to the cash required to fund our strategic capital investments.
Next year's a big year.
We still have about $100 million to put into Magnetation then we're done.
So if you take the Magnetation out of the equation the pension side of the equation we really do look as though we have and in fact we expect to have a lot less needs from a cash standpoint beginning in 2015.
And I'd just add to that also as I've mentioned we completed the final fundings for our [indiscernible] which was $28 million.
So we're done with that and that liability will transfer over to the retirees effective January 1 2015.
Research Division</strong> This is great color.
Jim one more thing I want to talk to you about.
If I ask you about your iron ore I mean if I look at the iron ore price today and I believe you have always mentioned that for modeling purposes we should use the whatever the market pricing channels CFR prices because your prices are based on that.
And I if I look at the comment from steel Ramex [ph] on their joint venture with Magnetation and they actually put in writing that their cash costs or costs on that Magnetation concentrate is under $50 per metric ton versus [indiscernible] CFR $135 [ph] and I do this delta for 1.5 million-ton benefit you will get after that is complete and the profit you're going to make on the rest of the portion where you are you still have a JV in the rest of the business.
Plus looks like your -- if I interpret the contract you have signed with Cliffs starting from 2015 it looks like that's also very beneficial compared to what you're paying now.
That could be a pretty significant amount.
I mean savings in iron ore compared to where the market is right now.
Am I looking at it right? You are indeed Sohail.
Again we think that Magnetation's going to make not only a great quality product but a very low cost product.
We'll enjoy a discounted price to the market.
We'll also get 50% of the profitability of that venture.
So that's a good deal.
And then I think look leverage works in both ways and I think when you're in the market buying half as many pellets as you used to which is our position after we get Magnetation up and running you kind of find out who really wants to play with you and we've partnered up with Cliffs we think that's a great long term relationship.
I believe it's a 10-year deal and that should serve both parties very well.
But I think you've characterized it very well.
It should be very beneficial to us going forward.
Our next question comes from Dave Martin of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back quickly to AK Coal.
Just one follow-up if you would.
Has the cost structure of the asset or the extraction costs of that operation changed what you had originally thought? No.
We feel very good about the progress that we've made.
We got an excellent team down there.
We continue to improve our cost performance our yield performance.
I would say we're really right about where we thought we were going to be.
We had a slight delay for a while in permitting and other issues come up as you might guess.
But it's pretty much as we thought.
The thing that's changed is where we thought that the market price for low-vol coal and coal generally would be.
That's a very significant change from a year or 2 ago.
And I think that we have to look at this as being opportunistic and our costs in the early days here are obviously going to be higher than when we get the mine fully up and running and the additional mines and the -- where we think costs will be then.
But we're going to be opportunistic.
It makes sense for us I said we have to sort of adjust our sales in the storm and we're doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I just wanted to come back to cash flow and leverage.
You noted that working capital was a usage in the third quarter and your debts increased and if I'm reading your comments correctly you're implying that working capital is going to be a source of cash in excess of $90 million in the fourth quarter.
So I'm just trying to understand how and where the working capital benefit comes from potentially when volumes and average prices are increasing? I'd give a couple of comments there.
One is in regards to our unplanned outage when that occurred at the end of the second quarter we already had the raw materials here.
So you can't make those raw materials disappear overnight.
So with the reduced operating levels in the third quarter we were running with higher inventory levels than we would have liked to and that we would have planned to.
We did make up part of our production shortfall with our Butler EAF so we were producing and meeting our customer needs.
But we were falling short in building the inventories.
So our goal is here in the fourth quarter that we will correct our raw material inventory situation and get that drastically reduced.
And that will be the key driver to our working capital improvements.
Our next question comes from Bruce Klein of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering CapEx for next year what might be a good number I know Magnetation's at least I think you said $100 million and possibly some for coal but what might be a reasonable number? We really haven't provided guidance yet for next year.
I would comment that Magnetation we would anticipate making our final $100 million investment.
That would probably occur prior to the start up with the pellet plant but it'll be spread out next year.
AK Coal as I mentioned the total investment there will be $96 million.
We've invested $57 million thus far.
I don't see it being a substantial number there and that as we push off a little bit at the startup of the mine that will move more into 2015.
But -- and then our normal CapEx maintenance CapEx.
We haven't landed on it at this point.
We've certainly got a long list of items that we'd like to do.
We're mindful however of the world in which we operate.
And I think to Roger's point we have sort of a base capital load that I think historically has sort of bounced between the $50 million and $75 million sort of range.
And without having had a formal -- a capital presentation that's been approved by our board I would say that's sort of a range I'm comfortable talking in.
Our next question comes from Brian Yu of Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question is if you look at this -- the other income and expense line it's swung to a loss this quarter and I believe that's where that Magnetation joint venture flows through.
Can you help -- if there's anything else that's flowing through that line that's turning into a loss? Yes a comment -- 2 things.
One when if you compare it to the second quarter we did have a gain when we did issue or bought back some debt and we had about -- close to a $3 million gain on that.
So we have -- we were kind of favorable in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we had a -- and the key driver was Magnetation you're exactly right that's where it is reported.
There's 2 things that were occurring there.
One is that Magnetation as you know went out and raised $325 million of senior notes earlier this year.
The project is moving along very well.
However until you spend the money on that you cannot capitalize the interest.
So they're carrying a little bit higher interest costs that's flowing through their P&amp;L.
But it was the best decision we felt and Magnetation felt for their company to have the liquidity there and make sure we had plenty of financial support to support the building of the pellet plant.
So with that came the negative of carrying a little bit higher interest carry cost as we're ramping up to get the pellet plant ramped up.
And that as Jim mentioned is moving along very well as we anticipate that starting up well in a year over a year in advance of what we originally said when we announced this back in the fall of 2011.
So that was one key success factor that Magnetation had to get positioned for the setup of the pellet plant.
The other thing is as part of it Magnetation had hedged part of their iron ore as they were doing their capital markets transactions.
If you remember earlier this year the IODEX had dropped quite a bit.
So to ensure there was a cash flow stream to support their debt structure they had hedged that and those -- the hedging that they do on some of their iron ore is mark-to-market.
So they did have a mark-to-market impact here in the third quarter.
It would not be ongoing -- that we would not anticipate unless the IODEX continues to rise.
But that was part of the impact also.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay it make sense.
And on the metallurgical coal I think Jimmy said that that we maybe we see third-party purchase cost in met coal declined single-digit in 2014.
If we roll in what you're achieving with your own operations and what can we expect the overall met coal cost to decline? Not sure that we're there just yet.
And again I think one asset taking into context of really all of the raw materials and so we'll continue to pull our plan together for next year.
I think the best guidance that I could give you is that we'd look for prices to be down.
But we wouldn't necessarily sort of pull out pieces and parts and give you our percentages for each just yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one if I might is on the pension cash contribution.
And I believe there's a difference between the ERISA versus just GAAP reporting.
And I thought you guys got some of the benefit of the discount rate changes last year for ERISA purposes which impacts the cash flow.
Am I thinking about that correctly? Or are some of the numbers you gave earlier actually refer to cash and is on top of the benefits you got last year? No you're correct.
We did get the benefits of using the 25 year smoothing for calculating what our pension funding requirements are.
As Jim mentioned in total we've funded $181 million this year which $41 million we completed here in October.
So we completed our pension funding.
Next year we estimate that number's around $210 million and as we previously disclosed the following year being about $125 million.
So although those would reflect to 25-year smoothing but when you look at purely our balance sheet the discount rates as Jim noted had dropped substantially or had gone up -- risen this year which is substantially reducing our pension and OPEB liability especially on the pension front.
And why those haven't been yet reflected in our financial statements because that remeasurement will not occur until December 31.
So whatever the interest rates are here or at the end of this year if they continue to go at the pace they're at we'll see a reduction in our liabilities on our balance sheet which will be different than what we do from a funding perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should see an income statement benefit but cash flows might be -- it'll be what you guys have already disclosed? I'd say balance sheet benefit.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One other question on AK Coal.
Just if -- to ask it another way.
So the first mine that's now producing is that mine in the money at current coal prices and you're keeping it open because you've got an economic benefit at current prices? Or is it open and you're deferring 2 and 3 just because you've just started developing that mine and so you want to continue to go ahead with production there even though you may not be getting the cost advantage that you had hoped or that you thought it was going to give you? I'd answer at this point Justine the first mine is doing exactly what we thought it would be doing at this point in time.
Of course there are start-up costs and costs are little bit higher.
But as we pull the volume and as we get a little bit deeper into the mining process and get a better quality kind of substrate if you will coming through that should continue to benefit us.
There has just been this dramatic drop really in terms of the overall market that we feel is wise to take advantage of while it's in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is on the mix of contract and spot because I know a few years ago AK Steel had more exposure to their contract business -- the contract automotive business then you moved away and now you're moving back.
What is the customer response to this? I mean are the auto companies very happy to enter into more long-term contracts with you guys now and are they appreciative of the fact that your view on the market has changed or have they said "No " first thing that you "No we won't actually do more spot business with you because of where -- what their outlook is for steel prices?" Well let me try and answer that the best I can.
Look every relationship with every customer including our relations with our auto customers are a sort of unique and special and different.
A lot of elements go into that.
A lot of them are decades old if not more than a century old.
The fact that we moved away from some of them or at least declined in terms of exposure what -- was a conscious decision on our part.
It was a very different marketplace as you know a few years ago than it was -- than it is today.
It remains the largest consuming steel segment out there.
It's always been attractive to us.
It's just varied.
And I think you really have to step back and look at how we've invested in our company how we've invested in our plants in our property and equipment.
How we've spent our capital.
It's been deployed really with a focus to serve the highest toughest applications the toughest customers to satisfy and that's a perfect fit really for the automotive space.
They have embraced what we do.
We've repeatedly been growing with them.
In fact as I mentioned in my prepared remarks just seeing the growth rates that we've experienced have been higher than the overall market.
So I think that positions us very very well.
Oftentimes we get a look at some of the products that are coming to market maybe a first look or an early look.
And it's really a function of a whole number of things.
It's those facilities it's our people it's our focus it's the R&amp;D it's innovation it's continuing to be on the cutting edge including things like advanced high-strength steel.
So we built a company to serve them and I think today we've got something like 50% of our sales that would be related to the auto sector.
That doesn't concern us.
It's a very good place to be.
And not everybody can do it well and we'll continue to grow that profitably.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Roger I just had a question about the impact for the Middletown outage.
You talked about it being $11.8 million.
What's exactly embedded into that number? Well there's 2 components to it.
We did have an insurance recovery as we had provided in our guidance of about $14.4 million.
So that impact that we've disclosed is the net effect to our cost.
And basically the impacts are where we were not running for a period of time so the fixed cost that we absorbed and what we had to do to make sure we kept our customers in steel and everything we incurred on an operational front.
Research Division</strong> And how should we take your outlook commentary regarding that piece kind of that piece of the puzzle going into the fourth quarter? How should we think of that bridge in that component? Yes if you look at it in the second -- the third quarter we had about a $12 million impact.
And what we're saying year-to-date is it's been about $18 million.
In total we estimate $20 million to $23 million.
So that would leave $2 million to $5 million range that we would incur in the fourth quarter.
So that would be substantially below the $12 million we incurred here in the third quarter to kind of give you a bridge from 3Q to 4Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay that would be inclusive of any insurance proceeds that you would get? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up if I may I appreciate it.
The iron ore cost that you're moving through the P&amp;L at this point I know that you said you had hedged some in moving into 2013.
And the IODEX has been moving up since the middle of the year but just curious as to how you see your cost basis for iron ore moving into the fourth quarter and potentially even early in 2014? Okay.
If you look at it from the iron ore if you look at for the fourth quarter of 2013 using the period of June through August the IODEX comes in at $126 per metric ton.
If you look out into the future for the next quarter for first quarter '14 if that will use a period of September through November and so however the IODEX falls out for there is what we'll see going into the fourth quarter or into the first quarter.
Giving you a comparative number the third quarter number was $134 a ton.
So we've seen about an $8 drop from 3Q to 4Q.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Inc.</strong> Obviously you guys are pretty big users of steel scrap.
With the big DRI plant in Louisiana now delayed until year-end are you seeing any impact from that on the markets for scrap and maybe from some of your sources? Our short answer is no at least not yet.
We continue to monitor that closely.
I think as you indicated we're pretty big users of scrap ourselves and we'd be mindful of any movements there of any significance and to date the answer is no.
Inc.</strong> Do you use any imported pig iron or some flex material? No.
From time-to-time including recently we'll purchase some enhancers if you will to our burden HBI or HBS.
And from time-to-time we've done that sort of thing.
But look we continue to step back and evaluate is there a place for DRI as a scrap substitute for us? We haven't landed on that.
I think we -- with our overall metals position are comfortable but we'll keep an open mind.
I would add that our friends at Magnetation have entertained a number of interesting discussions about people who would sort of tout the fact that maybe they should add a DRI plant in Reynolds Indiana.
That's something that I'm sure they'll continue to consider and look at in terms of whether or not it makes good economic sense.
But we have nothing further to offer in terms of how it might impact AK Steel at this point we like our blend.
Inc.</strong> And did you buy any slabs during the blast furnace outage? Or was there not enough time? We -- it's a really good question Chuck.
We attempted to supplement our shortfall in Middletown first of course at Ashland.
Secondly with the capacity that we built for ourselves with the #5 EAF at Butler.
And a very small segment of slabs were purchased but it was an insignificant number really to -- a few thousand really to the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
What percent of your Electrical Steel business is based on annual contracts? And in tandem with that question do you think electrical steel pricing can improve with a preliminary decision on antidumping or do we need the trade case to come to fruition? Probably the majority of our Electrical Steel business is under contract.
It has declined a bit but I would say that it's run in a range of probably 2/3 to 80% in that kind of variety.
In terms of the impact of the trade cases again it's an important tool.
We've utilized the tool.
I think different customers have reacted differently.
But clearly we've seen an interest in talking to us about supply for 2014 and we're looking to fulfill that interest.
LLC Research Division</strong> But do you think there is an impact in the sense that you said that electrical steel price is currently weak do you think there is a chance that it can be up next year with this trade case in the backdrop or is it more of a '15 phenomenon in your best guess? And I have one last follow-up.
I think it's already had a bit of an impact whether or not that means that it will be up next year perhaps it will sort of stop the hemorrhaging.
We'll step back and see what the relationship is as it evolves.
They've just been filed as you know.
We're hopeful that the actions of the Commerce Department and ITC brings some rather swift activities here in the fourth quarter and in the first and second quarters of next year.
And I think that will really tell the tale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question is if Magnetation were unhedged could you disclose what the profitably would be for the JV? And also what's the -- what's the production concentrate for Q3? What -- comment one on given the profitability I mean if you look at how much money they lost they did lose here in the third quarter naturally the mark-to-market which was most of their loss.
The interest expense is what's carrying them to a loss currently.
And so we don't specifically disclose exactly how much concentrate they're making they're working on.
We've got the facilities up and running both Plant 1 and Plant 2.
They do sell part of that concentrate and they actually are building some inventory also in preparation for our upcoming startup of our pellet plant.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Guys given that your outlook between steel prices and pension costs and everything else like this the outlook is really clear to you -- it's actually quite a bit better.
The way we model it Magnetation gets kind of tight on liquidity around the end of 2014.
Is there a possibility just because obviously there's about $100 million a year of benefits kind of takes the middle of the range it accrues to you once Magnetation starts to be a full partner of yours.
Is there a chance that you guys actually put in more money just to kind of get them across the finish line? I'm basically asking the how much do you want to support Magnetation question given that liquidity is better question? Very fair point Brett.
I would just say that the $100 million that we're still going to contribute next year should get them over the finish line and really put them in good shape.
They've done a magnificent job not only of constructing facilities and bringing them up to fruition.
This is a really seasoned management team.
They understand that business very well.
They've got a very good handle on cash flow production cost any number of things transportation which we've been working on them with of late.
So we don't anticipate the need nor their request for us to provide additional funding there of any sort.
Our final question comes from Chris Olin of Cleveland Research.
I know it's not a big business for you but I just wanted to talk a little bit about the commodity stainless sheet operations.
Seems to us like orders could be getting at least less worse from here and I've seen that you put through some price increase initiatives that probably will stick.
I'm just wondering what you're thinking in terms of how high this could go? Or is there opportunity to get more base price increase on a go-forward basis? Chris I think you follow that segment of the steel space as well as anybody.
It's been a very sort of full space as you know and gotten for with the addition of Outokumpu and so forth.
We saw they're trying to roll up Europe and who knows maybe one day something similar will happen in the States here.
The fact of the matter is the major driver of that pure commodity space is the underlying material in this case nickel after falling substantially for an extended period of time we've seen it begin to move up.
I think that's a good sign.
I think our orders are pretty solid there.
I don't know that it's really anything to write home about.
For us really stainless consists of the commodity space as you're talking about really the 400 series of business and then those special products that we tend to produce out of the Coshocton facility.
And I will tell you at least year-to-date the Auto Chrome business has been fantastic.
The specials have been excellent and really the laggard has been the Commodities Stainless business.
For us that's not a key facet as you noted in your question.
But it's an important part of the business in terms of the swing factor.
We have been seeking higher prices and volumes I think are picking up a bit and I think a lot of that's driven by the price of nickel.
Hearing where the supply is going and the focus from your competitors on lowering the cost does it ever make sense to stop producing the Commodity Sheet? Well we vary ours quite a bit.
It really can be a bit of a swing factor for us.
We're a much bigger player in those other aspects of stainless as well as electrical as you know to fill up sort of the specialty books.
So we'll continue to be opportunistic.
It has not made sense so far to exit but we're always looking at what's in the shareholders' best interest.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Wainscott for closing comments.
Just very briefly Sam thank you.
I want to take this opportunity to thank all of you who are on the call for joining us today and for your ongoing interest in AK Steel.
Again we certainly see better days ahead after a challenging period.
Also I'd take this opportunity in which all of you not only a great quarter but as the unbelievably the holiday season approaches we wish you a very healthy and prosperous one.
Have a great day and a better tomorrow.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.