Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our first quarter financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim.
Thank you Doug.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us today on our call.
I would just say that if there is one good thing that can be said about the first quarter of 2014 is simply this.
Thank goodness it’s behind us.
To say that the first quarter was challenging is an understatement it was very very tough.
Having said that the men and women of AK Steel once again rose the occasion and met our challenges head on and for that I am now and always will be thankful and grateful.
Keys amount of our challenges in the first quarter were weather related and maintenance related outage issues and their related costs.
The extremely cold winter weather which turns out to have been the coldest in decades rail and maritime transportation during Q1.
In addition to the higher energy and transportation costs our operating costs were also much higher than we had expected.
Our first quarter financial results were bought down by a combination of planned and unplanned maintenance outages at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
After experiencing an unplanned event in late February we chose to accelerate a planned blast furnace outage at Ashland Works that had been scheduled for the second quarter of 2014.
We believe this was a prudent thing to do as it positions us well in terms of steel making at Ashland for the balance of 2014.
I’m pleased to report that the majority of these issues including our blast furnace outages are behind us.
Following my remarks Roger will provide you with the costs associated with the first quarter items of which are just spoke but I would just say this that they total about $80 million.
I want to emphasize again that we view these items and their costs as unique to our first quarter and that we do not expect and do recur this year.
Say it another way having worked through these significant first quarter challenges we believe that AK Steel is very well positioned for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
Before leaving the first quarter however I would be remiss if I didn’t take a few minutes to highlight several noteworthy positive items.
Then looking ahead to the second quarter I would like to provide you with an idea of what we’re seeing in terms of the markets that we serve.
As many of you know at AK Steel we value employee safety product quality and unit productivity these things serve really as the foundation of who we are as a company and how we operate.
From a safety standpoint our first quarter 2014 safety performance was stellar in fact we tied our all-time best first quarter performance with only one OSHA recordable case for all seven of our steel making and steel finishing plants that is simply outstanding of special note I want to congratulate our Zanesville Works employees for being recognized for outstanding safety performance by the Ohio Bureau of Worker’s Compensation during the quarter.
Zanesville has now worked more than 4 000 days without incurring the single lost work day or restricted work injury.
And on these same safety metrics Coshocton is nearing the 1 000 day mark and again these are simply fantastic accomplishments by our people.
Staying with safety in the first quarter our Middletown Works coke plant received the Maxi Edward safety award from the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute.
The award was given for operating for the entire year of 2013 without a single accident.
I congratulate our employees of the Middletown coke plant on this outstanding honor.
Also during the quarter AK Tube received OSHAS 18001 certification joining Coshocton and Rockport which were previously certified.
Moving from safety to quality we made solid progress in terms of our internal quality measures including both retreated and rejected products.
In fact in the first quarter we set a new record for the lowest amount of retreated product ever in the history of the company demonstrating our continued focus on making it right the first time every time.
Exceptional quality performances were delivered in particular at our Butler and Coshocton locations.
Productivity-wise our Middletown Works blast furnace ran well as did our electric arc furnaces at Butler Works and Mansfield Works.
Safety quality and productivity the gains in these areas are only possible with the commitment of our workforce.
And I happen to believe that we have the finest team of employees in the steel business and some of the most flexible labor agreements as well.
Speaking of labor agreements during the first quarter we reached a new three-year labor accord at our Mansfield Works with Local 169 of the United Steelworkers.
In an increasingly competitive global steel industry this new agreement serves the interest of the Company our employees and our customers.
I might add that we have one remaining expiring labor agreement this year.
That agreement is that our Middletown Works with Local 1943 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
The current Middletown contract is set to expire on September 15 of 2014 although we are hopeful of reaching an early agreement with the IM well in advance of the scheduled expiration date.
Once again safety quality and productivity will continue to remain the hallmarks of excellence at AK Steel and they are only made possible through the great dedication of our people.
Speaking of our people and another group that's really very important to us and that's our customers.
Let me take this opportunity to thank all of our customers for the business that they afford AK Steel.
At our company we strive to serve customers better than any other steelmaker.
This is our mission.
We’ve spent decades building a world-class reputation for producing top-quality flat-rolled carbon and specialty steel products for delivering them to our customers on time and for providing unparalleled customer service.
These characteristics have differentiated AK Steel in the marketplace and they will continue to do so going forward but some of our recent challenges especially on the steelmaking front hampered our ability to provide the high level of customer service that we're known for.
So to those customers whom we may have disappointed let me simply say this.
You can count on AK Steel to regain our leading position and service queue in the months ahead.
I can assure you that we are all over it.
Now let me take a moment to provide you with an update on our raw material vertical integration initiatives Magnetation and AK Coal.
It might first be worthwhile to take a moment to remind you of our strategic rational for making these important investments in the first place.
Several years ago our company concluded that we needed to lower our production costs and enhance our raw materials self-sufficiency.
In seeking to gain greater control over our cost structure we started by successfully securing long-term agreements coke next we saw to acquire iron ore and metallurgical coal interests and we were once again successful in doing so.
As a result today we have long-term competitive supply contracts in place covering about 75% of our coke requirements and we produce the remaining 25% with our own facilities.
I might add that we also benefit from the electricity produced by our coke supplier as their environmentally friendly co-generation technology produces about 15% of the electricity we need to operate our plants but if we are going to manufacture steel using a blast furnace process you also need a steady supply of high quality reasonably priced iron ore the most basic ingredient in making iron.
That’s where our investment and Magnetation comes in; Magnetation is our answer to lower our costs and enhancing our self-sufficiency when it comes to iron ore.
After a very long cold winter spring has arrived in the Midwest and with it Magnetation’s power plant is literally springing to life.
Essentially on budget and well ahead of schedule construction of the pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana is expected to be completed in the late third to early fourth quarter of 2014 with initial pellet production expected to follow.
Beginning next year that is in 2015 we expect Magnetation to be at full production run rate of about 3 million tons annually this represents about one half of AK Steel’s annual iron ore requirements.
In addition we’ll continue to buy an additional 3 million tons of pellets from third-party suppliers.
In other words upon completion and full operation of the pellet plant we will have achieved our goal of 50% self-sufficiency on this key steel making input and we will have created a natural hedge that will help stabilize our total iron ore costs whether iron ore prices rise or fall.
The start up of the pellet plant is a real game changer for AK Steel and we are excited that it’s just around the corner.
Speaking of pellets let share with you that we are facing a very tight supply chain in terms of iron ore pellets being transported by vessels on the largely still frozen great lakes.
Our raw materials purchasing and our transportation personnel have done a good job of trying to ensure that we get the iron ore that we need to make steel.
And until the Great Lakes fully thaw and shippers catch up we’ll continue to constantly monitor and manage our iron ore supply situation that is.
As a precautionary move however until the situation improves we have temporarily reduced the operating rates of our two blast furnaces and we’ve increased the production at our Butler Works electric arc furnace and supplemented our own carbon steel production with purchased slabs.
Now let me turn from iron ore pellets to met coal and in particular to AK Coal.
We are mining more coal than ever at AK Coal’s first mine the North Fork mine which is located in Somerset County in Southwestern PA.
However since we began mining at that location merchant coal prices have fallen substantially and accordingly in light of current anticipated near-term coal pricing conditions we have elected to differ the opening of additional mines at this time.
We’ll continue to proceed with permitting activities but the timing of the opening of additional mines will depend entirely on future market conditions.
It goes without saying but I’ll say it anyhow that the low-vol coal reserves are not going anywhere right.
And when it comes to – rather it makes the economic sense to mine more of our own coal in the future we look forward to doing just that.
Let me now provide you with some insights into what we are seeing in the markets for our products.
Overall I would tell you that the markets that we reserve are either in pretty good shape or they are improving.
That’s because the underlying fundamentals for growth including domestic GDP industrial production and the purchasing managers index are all showing positive signs and while first quarter’s GDP will undoubtedly suffer due to the severe winter weather the outlook is encouraging.
We are slightly more than 50% of our sales to the automotive market we believe that were very well-positioned for growth as this sector continues to exhibit upward momentum.
Despite the bad weather that I spoke of repeatedly we shipped more tons to automotive customers in the first quarter of 2014 than we did in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the year ago first quarter.
As matte of fact our first quarter 2014 automotive shipments were at their highest level since the first quarter of 2007 the highest in seven years.
For the month of March light vehicle sales were 1.53 million units that translates into a seasonally-adjusted annualized sales rate of 16.3 million units and that would represent a 1 million unit improvement in 2014 light vehicle sales compared to 2013 unit sales.
From a light vehicle production standpoint the current projection for the year 2014 after production is estimated at 16.8 million units nearly a 4% increase compared to the 16.2 million units produced in 2013.
As a result as you might imagine we’ve seen solid demand for our coated and cold-rolled carbon steel products and our 400 series or stainless steel products as well.
We expect this trend of solid demand from our automotive customers for carbon and stainless steels to continue for the balance of 2014.
Increased automotive production within NAFTA for consumption around the world has a wonderful ring to it and that’s exactly what AK Steel at America need.
Next let me provide you with our perspective on these service center marketplace and then lastly I’ll provide some color on what we’re seeing in the electrical steel market.
Service center inventory levels remained fairly tight I would say that at the end of March on a seasonally adjusted basis.
Service center inventories for carbon flat-rolled steel products stood at just 2.2 months of supply on hand I guess that’s fairly consistent with inventory levels experienced during the first half of last year but it’s a low number historically.
Steady improvement in the market coupled with recent production disruptions in the sector has resulted in an uptick in our order intake rates our order book is very tight with cold-rolled and coated products booked to near capacity levels.
Because of these factors and the upward pressure that we’re experiencing from our steel making input costs in particular scrap in energy we raised spot market selling prices on two occasions in recent weeks for hot-rolled carbon steel products and we’ll continue to evaluate the need for further spot market price increases to balance our production capabilities with demand.
Let me conclude my market commentary with just a few thoughts then on the electrical steel market.
Although our first quarter 2014 electrical steel shipments were lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 as well as the year-ago quarter.
They were quite a bit higher then we had anticipated for Q1 and we look for this positive trend to continue into the second quarter.
What’s happening is we’re experiencing a combination of factors influencing higher demand including of course the weather effects the U.S.
housing market recovery.
And Europe’s continuing economic recovery as well.
In particular the NAFTA grain-oriented electrical steel market is showing signs of sustained growth in both the distribution and power transformer markets.
While all of this is a positive for us I hasten to add that there remains significant excess global capacity when it comes to electrical steel.
Before turning the call over to Roger to cover our financial results and outlook let me reiterate our belief that AK Steel is well-positioned for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
And for that matter we look to emerge as a stronger company this year.
That acronym emerge provides our direction as we look to execute our plans maintain our focus on our key values of safety quality and productivity importantly enhance our earnings and cash flow bring our raw material strategic initiatives to life including the near-term start up of Magnetation's pellet plant; grow profitable sales; and enhance margins and all of that gets us very energized about our future.
For AK Steel the future is now we are indeed energized and ready to capitalize on opportunities in 2014 and beyond.
There’s a lot to do but we know what to do and we have the right team in place to do it.
I remain confident that AK Steel's best days are ahead of us.
Thanks so much for your attention.
Now here is our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Roger Newport.
Roger.
Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $86.1 million or $0.63 per share for the first quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted net after-tax loss excluding the non-cash income tax charge was $54.4 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
And this result was slightly better than our guidance of a loss of $0.44 to $0.49 per share.
Our reported results differ substantially from our guidance and that difference is due to the methodology we used for income taxes.
When we provided our guidance for the first quarter we expected that we would be utilizing the effective tax rate method in 2014 but subsequently we determine that it would be more appropriate to utilize the discrete tax rate method.
This discrete tax rate method is the same tax method we have been using for the last several quarters.
The key point here is that for the foreseeable future our tax expense or benefit will continue to be based primarily upon changes in our LIFO reserve.
Thus if we have a LIFO credit we will incur a tax charge of roughly 38% of that amount of that LIFO credit.
By the way of example if we were to have a $10 million LIFO credit in 2014 our tax expense for the year would be approximately $4 million.
Alternatively if we had a $10 million LIFO charge for the year we would have an estimated $4 million tax credit.
We realize this can be a confusing subject but we want to take a moment upfront to provide an explanation to this tax change.
As Jim mentioned our first quarter financial results were negatively impacted by four significant events.
One an unplanned outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace which impacted us by about $18 million.
Second an increase in planned maintenance outage cost of $28 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily associated with the acceleration of the planned Ashland Works blast furnace outage that was previously planned to take place in the second quarter of 2014.
Third we incurred $27 million in higher energy cost compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 due to the extreme winter weather conditions and lastly we had a $6 million charge associated with the litigation settlement which was included in our selling and administrative expense.
In summary our first quarter 2014 results were impacted by nearly $80 million cost as a result of these four events.
Our shipments of 1 262 100 tons for the first quarter of 2014 represented a decrease of approximately 158 000 tons were about 11% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
However our actual shipments for the quarter were inline with our guidance.
Due to the unplanned outage at the Ashland Works blast furnace we shipped fewer tons into the carbon steel spot market; this resulted in a richer product mix.
The richer product mix along with the higher spot market prices resulted in a higher average selling price for the first quarter of $1 096 per tone an increase of $65 per ton or roughly 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 and our average price was consistent with our guidance.
Sales for the first quarter totaled $1 384 billion about 6% lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 sales.
In the first quarter our LIFO credit was $1.5 million slightly lower than the LIFO credit of $4.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2013.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are included in our operating results.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2014 was a loss of $2.8 million or a negative $2 per ton.
This compares to adjusted EBITDA of $87.2 million or $61 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our previously detailed $80 million of a $90 million difference quarter-over-quarter.
So I will not repeat those items here except to say they were costly outage and weather related items.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the first quarter of 2014 our capital investments totaled $14 million roughly to same amount as we invested in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Working capital was a slight consumer of cash at $14 million for the first quarter of 2014 this was comparable to the same period last year as we increased our inventory to support anticipated customer requirements in the second quarter particularly with respect to the automotive market.
On the liquidity front in March 2014 we entered into a new $1.1 billion asset-backed revolving credit facility.
The new credit facility expires in March of 2019.
The new credit facility provides the company with enhanced liquidity and greater financial and strategic flexibility.
We ended the first of 2014 with solid liquidity of $787 million.
Accordingly we continue to believe that we are well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations as well as execute our strategic initiative.
In regards to pension funding our 2014 pension funding requirements which we had previously indicated would be approximately $205 million are now estimated to be approximately $196 million.
In the first quarter we completed a $41 million pension contribution earlier this month we contributed an additional $71 million to the pension fund and we will be making the remaining roughly $84 million contribution in the third quarter of 2014.
As we look beyond 2014 we are pleased that our estimate of future annual pension funding requirement has decreased further based on our current assumptions.
Our estimated 2015 contribution have decreased by about $5 million to $100 million for 2015.
Our estimated 2016 pension contributions have decreased from $65 million to $50 million a reduction of approximately $15 million.
In summary our pension contributions for 2014 through 2016 are now expected to be about $30 million lower than our prior estimates.
Now turning to our outlook.
As is our practice we plan to provide detailed guidance for the second quarter of 2014 in June.
While we are not providing financial guidance at this time as Jim mentioned we expect our results in the second quarter of 2014 to be substantially better than the first quarter as we expect to benefit from lower energy costs the lack of major planned and unplanned outages and no significant litigation settlements.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
(Operator Instructions) Sal Tharani of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Sal.
Hey Sal.
Hi just wanted to get some numbers clear over here if I look at quarter-over-quarter the EBITDA decline was about $89 million you had four items of $80 million the rest is probably even more than what I would say the volume decline significant is that the main reason for the other $9 million decline?  Yes that is part of it also we did have a little bit lower LIFO credit primarily driven by the volume.
Got you.
And also if we look at the second quarter so we should expect none of those things are going to be headwinds and perhaps some benefit from the pricing.
How about the benefits of – are you going to see any benefit from your new iron ore contract in second quarter or is it later in the year and also well the Magnetation I know is coming out later this year but any benefit on the iron ore side in the second quarter from the new [indiscernible] contract?  I would comment Sal on two things one back to your first question on fourth quarter first quarter the other items we had was higher raw material costs of iron ore we had mentioned that previously and so that has got that going out for quarter-over-quarter that was a cost increase but if you look into the second quarter for the iron ore as you know that’s based on the IODEX and the four month lag.
So we’d see that actually starting to decline from here in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
So we seen an improvement there.
We will see the benefit of getting lower coal and coke cost starting to kicking in the second quarter we didn’t use quite as much coke and coal in first quarter because of our planned and unplanned outages so the timing of that when it hits is a little bit slower but we’ll start seeing some of the benefit of that in the second quarter.
And then as we work through the pellets as Jim mentioned we’re working through out pellet situation and so we’ll be getting the benefits of the time really what happens with the IODEX at this point.
And I think Sal you are on to something there with all these pieces and parts that you are adding together in terms of the outlook for Q2 and again while we’re not giving guidance today Q2 will be much better and we think that the opportunity is there for an even better second half as we roll through all the additional benefits related to raw materials and really cranking on all cylinders.
Would buying slabs from outside and the Butler slab production will that be as little bit of actually offsetting for factor?  I think it will help us in the second quarter and we’ll continue to evaluate that as we go forward.
A lot of it has to do with what is available and at what price and does it really match our order book but where there is opportunity to do so we are not shy about doing it.
In fact it's something we are going after and have a number of dialogs going on as we speak.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Hey Jim and Roger thanks for the color on sort of what happened in this past quarter.
Can you guys talk a little bit about your contract volume with the spot prices rallying here? Is there any kind of reset that gives you some of the upside that we’ve seen in the spot market for your contract business? Well as you know Brett we have agreements that expire throughout the course of the year as they do expire we are doing our very best and we are achieving higher prices each agreement is a little bit different in terms of how it is put together but this business of sort of managing risk is a very important matter to us and I think our customers over the years have shared some of that risk with us.
In a number of cases though there is a zone within which we are unable to really share some of these cost just had so we ate most of those in the first quarter but I think look we honor our agreements and we’ll continue to honor our agreements.
There is no reset provision on those deals that we all ready have in place but I would remind you we have a number of them that are coming up.
And some of them are as short as even six-months in duration.
So that affords us the opportunity to have good dialogue on those matters.
The other thing I would just add is that we are increasingly being approached about opportunities to assist number of the auto companies who are sort on supply and are facing potential outages.
We’re happy to help but we’re not really in the firefighting business we have some albeit few tons to help but our interest is really more longer term and strategic in nature.
We want to be the supplier of choice to a takeover those parts in the future.
And then the second question is sort of big picture question.
Some of your competitors on the aluminum side are talking about platforms that they know about but cant talk about something resembling off of a very low basic CAGR over the next three or four years 30% market share growth and exposed automotive? Can you guys talk sort of the other side of the coin talk about sort of what you are seeing as you are talking to your customers about somebody’s platforms that go out three and four years? Thanks for asking.
Let me just take a couple of minutes to kind of set a records straight as far as we are concerned at AK Steel on the aluminum story.
At least our perspective of it no doubt they have been getting a fair amount of press they are making certain inroads your kind of numbers are not anything we’ve heard about 30% but just a few of our thoughts first as a company at AK Steel and as a steel industry lest be clear we are interested and life waiting as well right.
We are interested in serving our customers well and those customers have to meet the CAFE Standards of 54.5 mpg by 2025.
Steel is not the problem steel is a huge part of this solution the material of choice for the auto business for years if not decades a century if you will has been steel all right we’ve been a material of choice and we intend to keep it that way for years and decades and centuries to come and automakers have big decisions to make with most of them still evaluating really the tradeoffs between steel aluminum including safety.
We remind our customers and we would remind you Brett and all of you on the call that steel has a lot of unique characteristics strength durability paintability corrosive resistance as well as highly competitive cost and has a much better environmental footprint compared to aluminum as well.
We remind as I say all who listen to those arguments we continue to work closely though with our automotive customers on the steels that they currently need and importantly on the steels that they will be using on those future platforms that you referenced.
I would just offer a couple of more comments here.
Today AK Steel produces the high strength steels that are needed to meet the current requirements of our customers and we are also – we have the material available on the designs that are going into place right now on future vehicles.
So we are really not behind the curve in that regard and in fact we are working to develop in conjunction with our customers the next generation the third generation if you will of advanced high strength steels.
Obviously we’ve seen – its been well written about what one customers has done and we are talking to others about their future needs and many of them are undecided at this point although they are sort of in an experimentation phase.
We are prepared if necessary we are evaluating and we have no announcement today but we are evaluating the need to make additional capital investment to serve automotive customers needs in the future and we’ll have more to say about that as the year goes on.
Finally I would just offer that as consumers makes choices its important as they begin to do so soon its important that they choose wisely look carefully at things like the sticker price but not just the cost the initial cost of vehicle cost of insurance.
Think about how you will get your aluminum vehicle repaired and to the extent that the environment is important to many consumers as it is look at the total emissions package manufacturing use and recycling.
When you look closely at all those things steel wins on all fronts.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now opened.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi Evan.
Just a follow-up on the last question maybe I know you have kind of talked about potentially doing some partnering to do a continuous line at some points so can you get more involved in some of these generation three advanced high-strength steels.
And we’ve been reading about a new entrant who is coming into the market perhaps down South with the intent of doing advanced high-strength steels and coincidently some electric steels and I wonder if you have giving any thought to perhaps joining forces there? Yes again I just – let me first emphasize that today on our own we are producing all of the high-strengths steel grades to meet the current needs of our customers.
And that as far as we know AK Steel remains the only North American flat-rolled steel supplier addressing the automotive industries need for light weighting and improved fuel economy across multiple body sheet structural and powertrain application.
So it’s a big deal for us we are looking at it and of course we do not have a Cal line we have not yet invested in a Cal line we are evaluating really supply and demand whether we can make the economics that makes sense and really weather we would do it alone or with a partner.
So these are kinds of things that we’re evaluating we’re on it we’re looking at it in a very direct and concerted fashion and I think Evan we’ll have more to say about it as time goes on but lest anyone think that we are again behind the curve we are not we are on it if not ahead of it and the issue really becomes what makes good economic sense for us in the future given our participation with automotive customers.
Got you thanks and maybe just shifting gears a little bit.
Could you talk a little bit about the pellet supply issue? Its surprising to me that it’s impacting just the market for so long now and what is your kind of view on when these issues will subside when you see shipments picking up and when can you really get caught up and ramp your blast furnaces to their full use? We hope it’s very soon but let me just sort of step back and say that kind of what’s behind all this is that we’ve got the second most ice cover in recorded history on the Great Lakes.
So it all really starts with that the early freeze ended of the shipping season few weeks maybe as much as month early last year and then of course the harsh winter has delayed the opening this year.
I think shipping is actually down about 50% high 40s from a year ago this time.
So really anyone who receives raw materials from the Great Lakes is experiencing issues and that includes us and I would guess most everybody else.
We are on it to the extent we can be we cant control the weather but we’re in daily contact with our iron ore pellet suppliers the vessel careers and the coast guard regarding change in conditions weather is improving a bit and then we hear that they get a foot of snow so there is give and take there but we’re doing everything we can to manage our situations and secure the pellets that we need as I said we’ve utilized some ore steel make out of Butler and buying slabs were necessary.
To your point on how long does it last? I would be forecasting the weather if I was to you a precise answer but our sense is that it is going to last well into probably the third quarter of the year.
Could take most of the year frankly for the deliveries to catch-up I mean there is only so many vessels and there is only so much time and I think about the time that things get caught up there will be the thought about lets all avoid [ph] this for next year.
So I think it’s going to be a very busy shipping season and that we will continue to see throughout the summer months that its going to take a while.
I would also offer though that our operations are running as well as they can given that what we have and we expect what’s our delivery is and with the startup of Magnetation in the second half of the year for this to become much less of an issue.
Imagine if we had had the 3 million tons or 50% of our needs that geographical diversification if you will for Magnetation this year would be a wonderful thing.
So one more good reason for that to be coming on so soon.
And just one last quick one.
So I mean I kind of thought about I don’t the answer here and maybe you can help out.
In electric vehicles I assume we are using electrical steels and make some of those motors and I was just wondering if that’s significant amount of tonnage and whether that’s non-grain oriented or grain oriented steels that go into those motors?  Yes it has not been to really a sweet spot for our company but we continue to talk to all of our automotive friends and customers about opportunities that might be there in the marketplace for us.
Again when it comes to automotive we think we are one of the premier auto body exposed as well as the autochrome business.
The motor land business so in fact something that as electric vehicles and particularly the light weighting which isn’t just going to happen with respect to steel its going to be the power train as well as that takes on increase significance.
So we’ll stay close to that opportunity.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong>  Yes hello good morning.
Good morning Tim.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back to Brett’s question.
Fully appreciating that you have some flexibility in your contacts.
Trying to understand into the second quarter how much you might have expose to the spot market given you are probably playing some catch-up with orders in Q1 and with Ashland having been down.
I think so the first quarter Timna maybe just to reflect back we were probably knocking on the door of 80% of a contract 20% spot that probably improves to something like 75% 25%.
So there is bit more there but I would say candidly virtually all of our coated and cold-rolled product is spoken for.
We have a bit flat-rolled product that’s really the product that we’ve been raising prices on for that reason.
And we’re still in a little bit of catch-up mode just because of some operational issues.
So there isn’t dramatic opportunity there is some and its really more than it was in the first quarter but not as much as we would like I think we will see more as we get into the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay fantastic.
The other two questions I had actually were regarding insurance recoveries since you didn’t mention it is that an issue? And then if you could talk a little bit more about the stainless market.
Appreciating you are not in the nickel purchasing sides of things necessarily as much but that markets seems to strengthened I’m wondering how it helped you out and if you could give some detail there? Thanks.
Roger will comment on insurance and then I’ll end.
Yes.
On our planned outage related to 2014 there's nothing related to insurance recoveries.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
We’re actually thankful about that when you have are recovery that says it was the really bad thing but it was certainly bad enough as we said.
Stainless is improving Timna as you have noted.
Our focus tends to be mostly on the 400 series marketplace as well as what we’ll call sort of this specialty products.
For example specialty products that we make out our Coshocton mill which are benefiting from improved automotive demand appliance demand industrial and construction markets.
We are very tight there and essentially full We are setting records when it comes to shipping the Ferritic grades but to your point I think we have seen a better market the best that we’ve seen in a while with respect to the commodity chrome nickel market demand is up and certainly we see nickel prices rise now going past $18 000 per metric ton we started the year at around $14 000.
So they are up over 30% it’s a better place than its been in a while we’ve raised prices a couple times to reflect that its not a huge market but we’re opportunistic there and we’re being opportunistic than we’ve been in a while.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Charles.
Inc.</strong> Hi I’m hearing that met coal now in the U.S.
was down at the same level as thermal coal.
Putting it close to maybe $80 is that inline with what you are hearing? That maybe a little bit lower than what we’ve heard but I would tell you that its probably $10 or so higher than that in terms of what we’ve been hearing but it’s a darn close.
Inc.</strong> On the automotive side I mean the aluminum guys were talking about major inroads 20 years 30 years ago with forecast of 600 pounds per car things that were fiscally not conceivable but even today with their expansions in heat treating they are not going to have tremendous amount of aluminum available relative to the size of the auto market.
The big question is if you capture or retain that market you will be actually shipping maybe 20% less steel because your steel is going to be that much lighter how are you going to make up for that loss tonnage? Well Chuck of course these are great question and are sort of all based on the hypotheses that it will all move in that direction.
As I said before we are really part of the solution part of that is the continued growth of the marketplace.
We continue to see very great opportunities for growth you have just seen for example BMW and Spartanburg increased their capacity or announced it by 50%.
You see others coming to America to build the America is really the place to make vehicles and as at that growth continues we’ll be there.
So I think that would be sort of one response.
The other thing is we are again completely sold on all of the aluminum buzz I want to just sort of point out one keys in point.
Ron Krupitzer who works with the AISI and is actually is a part of SMDI the Steel Market Development Institute which I happened to chair this year.
And it just come out with an interesting piece and here is just a point that I would like to reference.
Last year the auto steel partnership which includes major producers like Chrysler Ford and GM studied a best-in-class forged aluminum front lower control arm discovered that the same light weight performance could be achieved with advanced high strength steels at 34% lower cost than clamshell design.
At least one OEM has already converted several platforms back to steel for this part and not added any weight to the vehicle but certainly benefited from the cost production.
That’s the kind of thing that we’re seeing we expect to see more of it but I think that our position when you are a leader in quality and historically a leader in delivering customer service will continue to position us extraordinarily well for the anticipated growth and a continued mix shifts within automotive Chuck.
Inc.</strong> And finally get back to the point assuming that you do prevail that you still will have to have a lighter weight vehicle which means less steel per vehicle.
Yes some of it is weighted vehicle some of it is the continued growth as you see the SUV market the truck market which tends to be more steel intensive they are growing leaps and bounces over passenger cars.
I think it will be a mixed shift within the utilization as well.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Katz with JP Morgan.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong> Good morning.
You guys had originally stated that you expected that AK Coal to provide annual savings of $30 million when low-vol met coal prices were about a $120 per ton.
And we understand as you said at the beginning of the call and as you said in previous calls that you have made the decision not to fully ramp up the AK Coal mines given current prices but could you clarify how much you are producing – how much you produced AK Coal in the first quarter on a tonnage basis and then how much that would equate to on an annual savings at that $120 per ton low-vol price.
Aren’t you entering sure.
Yes.
What I would comment on there is as we indicated previously we are continuing to ramp up we are just running out of the North Fork mine as we – as you are correctly noting we did delay any other mines opening up because of the market price of coal that we just earlier discussed but in total we expect – we don’t really go quarter-to-quarter because it really looking at a total for the year but we expect right now our mining operations to provide – our AK Coal operations to provide to AK Steel roughly 0.5 million tons or so clean coal this year.
So that gives you an idea pretty much straight evenly throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And $120 per ton low-vol price what would that equate to on an annualized range.
For the… Research Division</strong> For the $0.5 million tons.
Well the way we gave guidance on coal and coke is we said its late earlier this year that coal and coke will be down about $70 million year-over-year that’s a combination of what we’re buying and how we’re using the coal from AK Coal and also the benefits we do buy some of our coke in the market not lot of it but a little bit of it but all the coke we buy has a coal pass [ph].
So at $70 million slightly a few million dollars lower just because we are not consuming quite as much coal and coke this year because of our unplanned outage we had at Ashland earlier this year but that’s still in the order magnitude of what we would expect year-on-year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning Luke.
First question just to touch back on some of the issues on iron ore and the outages.
Trying to get a sense of how we should model your shipments going forward.
Can you give some sense of what the utilization rates are at the blast furnaces I know you are running them on a reduced level.
I guess I want to just understand what the total impact is going to be over next few quarters of these items in aggregated?  I would just say that we probably took a hit in the range of 100 000 tons to 150 000 tons in the first quarter with the outages.
Obviously we don't have that all other things being equal.
You would be adding that back on but again much will depend on iron ore deliveries.
We are not providing guidance today the blast furnaces with the maintenance jobs that we’ve done are fully capable at this moment of running full out and we want to challenge them to do that.
The market is there for them to do that.
So the opportunity is there.
In our heyday we would ship a 1600 000 million tons quarter.
If we can get the iron ore and get to kind of production that we believe we can get that’s a possibility but again a lot of it also depends on the continued growth in the automotive sector because we can't ship every ton we have to be mindful of the fact that we have to keep tons in the pipeline to serve our contract customers.
They look at that we look at that we want to make sure it’s sort of just right not too little or not too much.
So all of those factors go into our look at this but in terms of how we are running on how we can run I have no issues or concerns with respect to that it's just balancing all the needs of all of our customers.
Research Division</strong> But based on the iron ore availability that you see today where are you running the furnaces at the moment?  We’re running probably something like 80% to 85% of capacity in that sort of range.
Research Division</strong>  Okay.
And when we mentioned earlier about how long we think of recovering and getting the iron ore.
What Jim was talking about that would go late into the year that’s getting all the inventory levels back its just getting all the ore moved on the lakes where as everyone is trying to get ore.
So that there is a shortage of a ore that's not what we are insinuating it was more… Research Division</strong> Yes.
Good will and take drive long to get the inventories back up because there is a limited supply of vessels on the lake and it's going to take some time to work through that pipeline.
We are going to run and run w ell make more better faster but it will be a little bit more hand to mouth than it's been in recent years.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong>  Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Hey Phil.
Research Division</strong> Jim I had a question on the grain oriented business and just what you are seeing maybe relative to the fourth quarter and then also on the pricing front both domestically and internationally? Again just a couple of thoughts here or let me give you a couple.
The NAFTA market in particular Phil is showing signs of growth and that’s a good thing.
We did ship quite a bit more than we anticipated we’re trying to figure it out how much of that was really related to the weather but we think it's also sort of bouncing off of bottom has housing and other markets recover.
So we are encouraged by that.
As you know we do have electrical steel trade cases that are still pending and we are pleased with the progress on these cases.
There is a lot more still to come out with respect to GOES and not only electrical steel.
The international market continues to be a sluggish but again I think there we’re pass the bottom as well there is a slow rebound underway we are really are not yet at a level that makes great sense economically for us to participate in a meaningful way.
Just a couple of good news items on the horizon some bright spots the European efficiency standards will kick in this summer.
We think that will serve as well.
And the U.S.
department of energy standards kick-in in 2016.
I think that should play to our strengths and whether its carbon still stainless steel or electrical steel Phil really our focus is on continued innovation.
Trying to leapfrog a number of our competitors to provide products that really bring enormous value to the marketplace and in particular in electrical steel marketplace where efficiency is something that our customers value and will pay for.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Hi just on the gas and power costs in Q1? You referred to $30 million year-over-year.
I’m just wondering what you were seeing for Q2 if gas prices stay where they are at.
I mean right now they are up 7% year-over-year.
Is there a fairly direct read through on the gas portion of your costs or where is your hedging? And when were those hedges put in?  Yes.
You are exactly right.
If you look out what's been happening out on the marketplace and see what's happened on NYMEX where natural gas has been going that’s what we would be seeing also.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
That’s easy thanks.
Yes Matt.
Just to maybe to expand for a moment it was this volatility this spiking that really kicked our rear ends in the first quarter.
We would see gas go from $4.50 or $5 bucks head up to $6.50 we would see electricity $50 and megawatt go to $300 a megawatt obviously we’re through that we don’t expect anything of that sort but I would say that things are a bit higher than what we thought and we’ll do what we can to manage our way through that but the volatility the level of change should not be anywhere near what it was from Q4 to Q1.
Cross our fingers.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now opened.
Yes hi Jim.
How are you? Aldo great to hear you.
Yes same here.
By the way congratulation by the way on moving ahead with those unplanned or accelerated spending that you did in the quarter I know that took a lot of courage considering all the other troubles you were having.
I suspect you are the only one that congratulates on that but we thank you for it.
we think it was a prudent thing to do as your point yes.
There have to be something to congratulate you for.
Yes thanks.
But I wanted to ask a question about product mix the way you look at the second quarter I would normally expect to get back to a little more normal as you come out of the outages and stuff but given the fact that there is some supply now should we be expecting the mix of value added to remain quite high in the second quarter like it was in the first? It should.
Again as I indicated on a prior question we’ll have a bit more in the spot and historically that tends to be a bit more comparable and so fort so you could see that shift somewhat but value added as you know although the over the years has really been our sweet spot its what we do well.
When you get into a lot of the non value adds trades on one basis only and that’s a price – I think Warren Buffett has said and I said this before on price what you pay value is what you get.
We sell value at AK Steel in really all of our product lines we’ll continue to target the high-end.
I think you may see a small movement there but it wont be a big difference from Q1.
Great and then just to shift gears a second.
On the Magnetation startup coming up can you explain a little bit how those – any startup costs might hit you on your income statement are they potentially capitalized items and where we see a lot of change in the run rate of the cost is that Magnetation as we go forward? Want to comment on startup Roger on that strategy.
No I mean I don’t see a major impact I mean when we look out to see what the costs are going to do they will be handling it appropriately at Magnetation on their books of what needs to be capitalized not capitalized through their startup.
So as with any startup you see a little bit higher cost when you start up because you are not running at full levels and then you are trying to position into a fully operating – full operating way which brings your cost down so.
Just again to remind everybody at an IODEX price of $120 a metric ton I think it’s a little bit below that this morning we would expect an annual benefit of about $90 million on a run rate basis.
So we’re very excited about this we’re actually talking internally about holding an investor day at their location we need to have some more dialogue and of course the facility needs to come up and get running which we expect it will.
We are hopeful even though we say late third early fourth that with a bit of luck and a few things to go our way that that might be a sooner rather than later but we are very excited and really delighted about the investment feel better about it than ever.
Thank you and our final question comes from Sam Dubinsky of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Just a few quick ones.
So obviously there has been a heavy past 12 months of blast furnace maintenance expense with all the outage and whatnot and maybe some of those expenses wont repeat going forward but can you potentially give us a normalized expense figure and how should we think about annual blast furnace expenses or maintenance expenses and then I have a follow-up.
Sam I would just offer a couple of things.
Again at our blast furnace cost Roger put the numbers together at $45 million or so almost $50 million bucks in the first quarter.
That’s extraordinary for us highly unusual but they are behind us and we should fair very well going forward again knock wood.
In a typical year in our campaigns we are in our – first of all I just if anyone who thinks that we are not maintaining or focused on our blast furnace the fact is we are into our blast furnaces more often then anyone in the world we have more thermocouples and sensors than anyone.
We are monitoring things we spend an enormous amount of money on maintenance which is really key to the way that we operate.
And we think it’s the right way and its severed us well again for decades.
Its roughly a $1 million a day or so and then of course there is other things that you might do.
So in any given outage you could run anywhere from $10 million to $15 million perhaps a little bit higher million dollars and those should happen essentially on a annual basis one place one another it could be every 18 months or so depending on the condition of the furnaces which again we monitor closely.
So that’s sort of the ongoing run rate if one were to try a model what we’re talking about.
I would just back to the present we have no significant outages of any sort planned for the second quarter or for the second half of this year we are really through all of that and again we’ll continue to monitor things and do what we need to do as we see the issues or concerns but we don’t have any intentions or plans of talking any major outages or spending any major money.
Other than the ongoing money that we spend which is hundreds of million of dollars a year at all of our plants for maintenance.
Okay and then on the electrical steel trade case could you just gives an update on where the next milestones and where the key issues that are being addressed at this point and then I have one last follow-up.
Yes again on that whole front just as a recall we can compete with anybody on any given day given the level of playing field but we cannot effectively compete nor should we have to with unfairly low priced imports and competing against foreign governments and that’s exactly what we’re doing today.
And when it comes to China in particular we had to resort to filing trade case as relative to electrical steel products we simply couldn’t standby and watch America our great country become the dumping ground for these product.
As I mentioned before we’re pleased with the progress duties to address subsidies have been implemented the next milestone is the determination of the duties themselves and that should occur later here in the second quarter.
And those preliminary duties are expected to remain in effect until the final determinations are issued which will likely be in the fall of this year.
So that’s where things stand really at this point Sam.
Okay so when we do announce that takes effect immediately for the importer of record.
Correct.
Okay and then my last question is just on import competition.
Obviously spreads are high versus international and we’re actually seeing imports hit the market in pretty significant amounts.
I mean how do you think this plays out? Do think this cycle can be different or do you think U.S.
pricing has to normalize and international either U.S.
goes down or international goes up.
What are your quick thoughts on that?  Imports and we’re keeping an eye on them a close to eye on them as a matter of fact.
I would tell you though that as you and others know imports have historically been a part of our market and I suspect that they will continue to be until everything we need to consume here is made here but the key is that they are fairly traded and as you’ve seen when we need to we’re not opposed to filing trade cases we have no announcement today but we’re monitoring that closely.
The spreads so it may have written about as much as $150 a ton we think that this is not the fact.
We think it’s may be $100 or less.
And that if you really think about whether or not that's appropriate for one to take that risk once you factor in the time lag and the freight cost we are not sure the spread is really especially meaningful.
And the spread could certainly decrease in a number of ways including international price is increasing as their markets for recover.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Once again thank you thanks to all of you for joining us on today’s conference call and for your continuing interest in AK Steel just say that success is not always measured by how high you climb.
We certainly know that from our first quarter but rather its measured by how far you bounce back and with that in mind at AK Steel we look for a much improved second quarter of 2014.
We intend to bounce back in a big way.
So behalf of all of us at the company we wish you a great day a better tomorrow and an outstanding second quarter.
Bye for now.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.