Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Kate and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim’s remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to the future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences and results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company’s website at aksteel.com.
With that here’s Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thanks very much Doug.
Greetings to everyone and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
Excluding the effects of the unplanned blast furnace outage at our Ashland Works our third quarter 2014 financial results represent our best quarterly performance in five years.
In addition AK Steel's third quarter results continue to trend posting adjusted net income thanks to another tremendous effort on the part of AK Steel employees.
Speaking of our employees since this is the first conference call following our acquisition of Dearborn let me extend a warm welcome to our new employees from Dearborn and Mountain State Carbon; welcome aboard.
In summarizing the highlights of the quarter of course I will start with the successful and really the transformational acquisition of Dearborn as well as improving business fundamentals including increased shipments as we capitalize on improved market conditions and lower raw material and energy cost a benefit of which was partially offset by the unplanned outage at our Ashland blast furnace that I just mentioned.
All that resulted in a financial performance that exceeded our own expectations and those of the street with EBITDA in excess of $100 million and two consecutive quarters of adjusted net income and with the start-up of Magnetation's pellet plant underway suffice it to say that this is really an historic quarter for AK Steel.
It's certainly a quarter to remember and it provides us with a solid foundation on which to build and to grow our future earnings and cash flow.
All these items have positioned the company for future success and of course all those efforts are for the benefit of our shareholders our customers and our employees.
When it comes down to it our business like every business is really a people business.
In the marketplace we're differentiated based upon our products and our people.
It's really our people that make a great difference.
We're fortunate to have one of the finest workforces in the steel business and for that matter and all of American manufacturing and our employees love to make things in America manufacturing carbon stainless electrical steel products to help our customers meet the needs of their customers which is great because at AK Steel serving customers better than any other steel maker is our mission.
That involves consistently producing the highest quality carbon stainless electrical steel products delivering them on time and providing superior customer service before and after the sale.
Each and every quarter we find out how well we're doing based on the results from an independent survey conducted by Jacobson &amp; Associates we receive a report card of sorts from our customers.
For the third quarter of 2014 those survey results indicated that AK Steel ranked first in quality and both the carbon and specialty steel markets and we rank first in overall customer satisfaction by specialty steel customers the type rates and we'll continue to do everything we can for our customers.
In a marketplace that frequently do steel as a commodity with product services and people being considered homogenous frankly we beg to differ.
At AK Steel we built our company's reputation on producing and selling the highest quality products and providing superior customer service.
As we've said before on many occasions price is what you pay but value is what you get and at AK Steel we sell value.
We'll continue again to do everything we can to stand out from the crowd in a good way that is in all that we do and to align ourselves with customers who prefer what we offer namely great products and great service.
Now let me offer a few thoughts on what we're seeing in our markets with a particular emphasis on automotive and electrical.
As many of you know the automotive market represents approximately one half of our business and 16.7 million units the third quarter seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for light vehicles was its highest since the first quarter of 2006.
Compared to the same quarter a year ago automotive light vehicle sales were up between 6% and 7% while AK Steel shipments to automotive customers excluding Dearborn are up by about 12% in another words for gaining market share.
NAFTA light vehicle production for 2014 is currently estimated at 17 million units compared to 16.2 million units for 2013.
Our carbon and stainless and to a lesser extent our electrical steel all serve the automotive market and all those products have experienced gains resulting from the growth in automotive.
We're providing more carbon exposed and unexposed automotive products more stainless bright trim products and more automotive exhaust products to meet this increased demand.
Consistent with the overall market increase AK Steel's automotive shipments for the third quarter of 2014 were also the highest they’ve been in eight and a half years since the first quarter of 2006.
We expect continued strong demand for our products service the automotive customer so we look out to the fourth quarter of 2014 and beyond.
Now let me shift gears to the electrical steel market.
AK Steel is a leading global producer while grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES products and really has been since their invention and commercialization all the way back to the 1930s.
Today AK Steel's GOES products are part of the steel structure of America's electricity generation and distribution system or what is more commonly referred to as The Grid.
AK Steel's electrical steel products are critical in transporting energy.
As such our electrical steels can be found in power transmission and distribution equipment for energy projects around the globe.
Those products provide a highly efficient electromagnetic material for converting voltages within the Grid for both conventional and renewable power sources such as hydroelectric wind and solar.
In terms of what we're observing in the GOES marketplace we're encouraged by the signs we're seeing of improving demand especially for the business within the NAFTA region.
Our order book for GOES is improving as order books for our customers strengthen.
Once again we believe the gains are real and continue to be linked to improvements on the housing front and not connected to weather related events.
The international electrical steel market is improving slightly with improved market pricing and stronger demand for the highest efficiency electrical steel products.
Longer term we look forward to the implementation of higher efficiency standards for GOES as both of the U.S.
and European markets which we expect will spur additional GOES sales for our company.
In addition we're hard at work to develop and roll out new and more efficient grades of electrical steel given a level playing field that is AK Steel can compete with any steel producer in the world.
We'll have to make sure that the field is indeed a level one and that America does not become the dumping ground for electrical steel products.
For that reason and to ensure that we do not have to compete with unfairly low priced imports of electrical steel we field trade cases for both GOES products and for non-oriented electrical steel or NOES products.
In our GOES case we were very disappointed that the International Trade Commission ruled that the U.S.
industry was not materially injured by imports and we've chosen to appeal that decision.
In the case of NOES or non-oriented product preliminary duties to address those subsidies in dumping have been implemented.
As a result the importers are now required to post deposits with U.S.
customs.
We're anticipating a final injury determination by the ITC later this month.
And lastly on the subject of our markets we comment briefly on what we're seeing in terms of the carbon steel spot market.
Our demand is steady and increase have been on the rise for our carbon steel products sold in the spot market.
The result last week we announced a $20 per ton price increase effective in immediately.
This announcement underscores our continued efforts to emphasize the value of AK Steel's carbon steel products in the marketplace.
Speaking of our markets and our customers let me highlight our acquisition of Dearborn which closed on September 16 about seven weeks ago today.
The Dearborn acquisition makes AK Steel a larger stronger and more flexible steel company and it provides us with a growth platform to better serve our carbon steel customers.
In the first month and half since we acquired Dearborn we've been hard at work integrating the Dearborn operations and implementing AK Steel's approaches to safety environmental and quality as well as our operating and maintenance practices and procedures.
As a result we're already seeing solid progress gains and safety quality and productivity are clearly evident and we're increasingly confident in obtaining if not exceeding our cost based synergy targets.
I've asked Kirk Reich AK Steel's Senior VP of Manufacturing to participate in the Q&amp;A session of today's call in order to help respond the questions that you may have regarding our Dearborn operations but suffice it to say that we're very excited about the equipment that we purchased at Dearborn and we're hard at work to optimize all aspects of the Dearborn assets together with our existing assets at other AK Steel locations.
Speaking of optimizing assets in my remaining comments; let me provide brief updates on three subjects.
First the plan to Ashland Works blast furnace outage that's taking place here in the fourth quarter.
Second the recent start-up of Magnetation's pellet plant and its initial progress and third how AK Steel is innovating in terms of our product offerings including advanced high-strength steels.
For the first time in nearly three decades we are inside the hearth of the blast furnace at Ashland as we perform a very important hearth reline job.
Completion of this outage which was prudently advanced from 2015 to this year should position us well to service our customers needs for several years to come.
The outage began as scheduled on October 23 is expected to be 28-day job and so far everything is proceeding as planned.
To supplement the last production we did or are doing a number of things.
For example we built inventories ahead of the outage we challenged our other steel making facilities to make more and we purchased merchant carbon slabs to supplement our own production.
We look forward to completing this job in the next couple of weeks and having the Ashland blast furnace back online and operating well.
As a reminder both the Dearborn blast furnace which was rebuild in 2007 as well as the Middletown blast furnace which was realigned in 2009 are in great shape and running well.
Of the few older appetites blast furnaces need a steady diet of iron ore pellets.
With that in mind let me turn to our raw materials integration strategy and particular to Magnetation.
On September 28 Magnetation began producing iron ore pellet at its Reynolds Indiana location well ahead of its original schedule.
The pellet plant is in a start-up mode and will be in that mode for the balance of 2014 and the first part of 2015.
Initial production and quality levels have been as expected and transportation of the pellets to our blast furnaces by unit trains has gone smoothly.
We expect to receive more than 0.5 million tons of pellets from Magnetation during the fourth quarter of 2014.
As you may recall the pellet plant is part of AK Steel's vertical integration strategy to become more self sufficient in terms of raw materials and lower our cost over the long term.
Upon completion of its start-up phase Magnetation is expected to be a very low cost high quality pellet producer and will serve as a long-term hedge for our company.
With a total company requirement of about 9 million tons of pellets annually now with Dearborn the 3 million tons from Magnetation provides us with about one third of our total requirement.
We like this mix and once again we see it as a hedge for the future.
In the mean time since we're less vertically integrated than others in our industry on the raw materials front we've enjoyed and will continue to enjoy lower prices for steel making inputs such as coal coke and iron ore pellets.
Lastly let me comment on what we're viewing in terms of product innovation especially when it comes to producing advanced high strength steel but first let me comment on our newest product innovation CHROMESHIELD 22 it's a new nickel free stainless steel product that provides enhanced benefits and more predictable pricing for our customers.
This breakthrough product was developed by AK Steel researchers and provides corrosion resistance that meets or exceeds the performance of conventional nickel bearing stainless steels albeit at a lower cost.
Needless to say it's attracting a lot of interest.
On the subject of advanced high strength steels as a reminder we currently produce all of the coded grades of advanced high strength steels that our customers currently require and we want to make sure that we're well positioned to serve customer's needs for future light weighting applications.
With that in mind we're actively involved in both internal and collaborative research and development efforts of true third generation products to meet future needs.
Our internal research efforts are in the final stages of evaluating alternative technologies and determining whether one or more approaches are the right way for us to go in the future.
Let me emphasize that some of the approaches we're considering involve minimal if any capital investment while others involve modest investment.
We're also evaluating whether to proceed alone or with a partner on this subject.
That brings us solely to say that future light weighting initiatives and the production of advanced high strength steels are important subjects for and for our customers and are subjects that will have more to say about in the near future.
So let us jump -- I hope that you're getting a sense that there is a lot of momentum building at our company.
Indeed we're forging a brighter future at AK Steel.
One of the reasons our future looks brighter is the dramatic shift that's occurring in terms of our cash flow position.
We have substantially lower cash needs in the future.
To be clear we expect more than a $300 million decrease in our cash commitments from the year 2014 to 2015.
For the past several years we've been consumers of cash as we invest it.
We invest it in Magnetation and AK Coal as we contributed heavily to the pension trust which helped our refunded status and as we settled certain retiree healthcare obligations through VEBA deals.
And all the while we met the needs of the business including funding our working capital needs and our operating losses to get from there to here.
Now we're focused on becoming generators of significant cash flow.
Truly a high class problem for us and one that our company and our Board of Directors have faced for quite a while but we look forward to doing so as we turn the corner to 2015 with our cash requirements to fund coal and iron ore investments being essentially complete and with minimal pension contributions about 35 million expected for the entire Euro 15 compared to nearly 200 million this year and in recent years and we expect higher EBITDA generation as we reap the benefits of our strategic initiatives lower raw material cost and the lack of another severe winter and its impact on energy cost and iron ore parts availability improved Ashland operations upon completion of the hearth job and certainly enhancing and optimizing Dearborn's operations while meeting or exceeding our targeted cost base synergies.
Indeed for all the good work that's been done for the investments that we've made and acquisition that we've done the future is certainly a brighter one for AK Steel and for our shareholders than it has been in quite some time.
All the efforts of the company are focused on enhancing shareholder value whether it's drawing profitable sales lowering operating and input cost introducing innovative carbon and specialty steel products to the marketplace our daily continuous improvement of products in every facet of our business or occasionally making transformational acquisitions.
We do all those things to reward our shareholders.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Now to recap our second quarter excuse me our third quarter financial results here's our Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today we were pleased to report adjusted net income of $16.4 million for a $0.12 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted third quarter results exclude cost of $23.6 million or $0.17 per share related to the acquisition of the former Severstal Dearborn facility which is now referred to as Dearborn Works.
Our adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2014 represented a solid improvement over the second quarter results and a continued improvement throughout 2014.
In fact our adjusted net income was $32 million or $0.24 per diluted share better than our adjusted results for the second quarter of 2014.
Our third quarter results included a LIFO credit of $10.9 million compared to a LIFO credit of 3.3 million for the second quarter of 2014.
However we note this LIFO credit includes $7.3 million related to the Dearborn acquisition and this LIFO credit for $7.3 million completely offset the recognition of higher cost for the acquired inventory.
Thus excluding the Dearborn adjustment for LIFO our LIFO credit for the third quarter was $3.6 million basically flat which is the second quarter.
In regards to outage cost we have planned outage expenses in the third quarter of $1.1 million compared to $2.5 million in the second quarter.
During the third quarter of 2014 we incurred unplanned outage expenses of $23.2 million related to an incident at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
The unplanned outage cost impacted our third quarter bottom line by about $0.16 per diluted share.
For the third quarter we shipped 1 462 900 tons which represented an increase of 65 000 tons or about 5% more than our second quarter shipments.
The third quarter shipments increase was mostly due to the inclusion of shipments resulting from the acquisition of Dearborn which closed on September 16.
Sales for the third quarter totaled nearly $1.6 billion about $63 million or 4% higher than the second quarter.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $1 089 per ton which was in line with our guidance and slightly below our second quarter price.
The third quarter average selling price reflects the addition of Dearborn Works carbon field sales for roughly a two-week period.
I would also like to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are included in our operating results.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Excluding the non-controlling interest our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 was $100.5 million or $69 per ton.
This represents a substantial improvement of $35 million or $22 per ton compared to the second quarter of 2014.
I believe it is also important to note that our third quarter adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by the Ashland blast furnace unplanned outage cost of $23.2 million or $16 per ton.
Now moving to our results for first nine months of 2014.
Shipments for the first nine months of 2014 were 4 122 500 tons an increase of 267 000 tons or 7% higher compared to the first nine months of 2013.
As Jim mentioned this was primarily driven by our strong automotive market shipments.
Revenues for the first nine months were $4.5 billion an increase of more than $400 million or roughly 10% compared to the first nine months of 2013.
Our average selling price for the first nine months of 2014 was $1 093 per ton an increase of $28 per ton or roughly 3% compared to the same period last year.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred planned outage cost of $32 million during the first nine months of 2014 compared to $27 million for the same period in 2013.
We also incurred approximately $41 million in unplanned major maintenance outage cost during the first nine months of 2014 compared to $18 million during the first nine months of 2013.
The extreme winter weather conditions we experienced early in 2014 resulted in $45 million of higher cost in the first nine of 2014.
The cost increases were primarily the result of higher electricity natural gas transportation and operating cost.
As a result of the challenges we faced in 2014 at the bottom line for the first nine months of 2014 we reported a net loss of $110.4 million and an adjusted net loss of $85.8 million excluding the Dearborn acquisition cost.
This compares to a net loss of $82 million for the first nine months of 2013.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow the biggest and most exciting news this quarter was the successful acquisition of Dearborn Works.
We paid $707 million for Dearborn and acquired $29 million of cash thus resulting in a neat cash outflow of approximately $677 million as shown on our cash flow statement.
We estimate we will have to make a working capital to our payment of approximately $14 million in the fourth quarter.
The working capital acquired was approximately $300 million excluding the acquired cash.
For the third quarter 2014 our capital investment totaled $10.9 million compared to capital investments of $13.5 million in the second quarter of 2014.
On the strategic front in the third quarter we invested $45 million in our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation.
Through the third quarter we completed $90 million of our $100 investment commitment for 2014.
We have already made the remaining $10 million investment in the Magnetation joint venture in October and this payment completes out total investment commitment of nearly $300 million.
Moving on to working capital as expected working capital was a source of $27.5 million of cash during the quarter.
Our working capital usage in the first nine months of 2014 was $135 million and this was slightly lower than our historical average for the same time period over the prior four years.
We continue to be focused on managing on the working capital needs of our business.
We expect to achieve a significant reduction in working capital in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Despite this positive we expect our working capital will be a net user of cash for the full year of 2014.
In the third quarter we also made an $84 million contribution to our pension fund.
This completed our full year contribution to the $197 million to the pension trust for 2014.
Since 2005 we have now contributed nearly $1.9 billion to the pension trust.
Looking ahead dramatic changes are on the way in terms of our better future pension contributions.
With Highway and Transportation Funding Act signed into law we expect our pension contributions to decrease to approximately $35 million in 2015 and to decline even further in 2016 to approximately $15 million.
Further we expect our OPEB benefit payments to decrease from approximately $65 million this year to approximately $50 million next year.
Here’s the key point I want to make in total our cash needs attributable Magnetation required pension contributions and OPEB benefit payments are currently expected to be more than $300 million were in 2015 compared to 2014.
In connection with our acquisition of Dearborn we are pleased to complete several successful financings during the third quarter.
Our $430 million senior notes offering and our instrument of approximately $40 million shares of common stock were both very well received.
With this financing structure in place we expect the Dearborn acquisition to be accretive for our share holders as well as credit enhancing.
We also expanded our asset based revolving credit facility from $1.1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Our expanded credit facility provides a company with enhanced liquidity and greater financial and strategic flexibility.
I would also point out that we have no significant debt maturities until 2018.
Taking all these factors into account we ended the third quarter 2014 with strong liquidity of $912 million an increase of $373 million from the end of the second quarter.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations.
Now turning to our outlook as is our practice we planned to provide detail guidance in December for the fourth quarter of 2014.
In advance of that guidance I would note that we expect the fourth quarter 2014 results to be on impacted by the planned Ashland blast furnace outage and be lower than normal operating rates and Ashland Works going into the planned outage.
We expect that these items will impact on operating cost by approximately $30 million in the fourth quarter 2014.
Previously we had expected $13 million of higher costs leading up to this planned outage and $29 million up outage cost this total part of estimate $42 million in now $30 million down $12 million from our prior guidance.
And as I mentioned there’s $20 million capital investment at our Ashland Works blast furnace will position us well for the future.
Let me conclude my prepared remarks by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
(Operator Instructions) One moment please for our first question.
Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley please go ahead with your question.
Hey.
Good morning guys Good morning Evan.
Just a first question on guidance I know there’s a lot of moving pieces in working outage and just price move and so forth.
If you go back to the guidance from last quarter you mentioned that you thought the fourth quarter financial performance would improve relatively in the third quarter and I didn’t see it in this press release this morning do you still think that will be the case? Evan good question.
We’re certainly hopeful for a better fourth quarter.
It is our really our role as a management team to improve things every day every quarter in every way possible that remains our focus.
But I think you now in light of the many moving pieces and parts to the quarter and not the least of which are Ashland blast furnace job that we spoke extensively about here Magnetation startup integrating Dearborn and you know the spot market with all that it brings at this time of year.
I think we are better suited to hold off for another four to six weeks before we provide our official guidance but we look to continue to run a great business increase utilization rates increase the synergy generation and to do all the things that we know how to do that will hopefully lead to that to end result.
Got you thanks next question is on iron ore there was some discussion last week that perhaps some of the under the seaborne link contracts you might have with Cliffs have some floors on them? I just wonder if you can maybe expand on that and kind of let us know how much of the benefit of this iron ore price value you will actually see flow through next year? Let me just comment generally on Cliffs now we have a good relationship with Cliffs Lourenco and I know each other well we met.
You know we have deals with them both from sort of more the AK and now from Dearborn.
You know we’re talking about a lot of things.
Perhaps there are opportunities to improve each of our company’s performance over time.
So that’s obviously an important discussion that’s going on.
You know I think that currently with the decline roughly 40% decline this year in terms of the IODEX were going to benefit I just hasten to add that there are multiple components in each of those fields that I just referred to so it’s not entirely IODEX based.
The other thing is there’s bit of a trailing effect in terms of when those costs flow through are cost of goods sold.
So we will benefit in the fourth quarter without a benefit in the first.
And depending on whether it’s your firm or others prognostications with respect to ‘15 and beyond we certainly expect work to remain you know several 100 for some period of time and given that were 2/3rds dependant on purchases and only a 3<sup>rd</sup> dependant on our own or relationship with Magnetation that’s really going to position us very nicely as we go into next year.
Okay thanks.
I’ll turn it over.
Thanks Evan.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy with UBS.
Hi am just wondering if you had any updates on thoughts now that you’ve had Dearborn for a short time? What the kind of productivity upside you think there could be to your initial $50 million share you estimate? I am going to just kick that off and then I’ll ask Kirk to chime in.
He spent a lot of time as has keys and mobile at more reed up with that facility.
We’re really thrilled frankly with the quality of the assets with the people and we are all about the business of AK-ising Dearborn if you will.
You know our approach again is one that focuses on keeping our people safe serving our customers better than anyone and we are above all that in all of those areas.
I think one of the very key synergies that we're attacking is the quality and productivity and you know we’ve seen some things maybe Kirk you want to just give a couple of examples or some thoughts as to what we're seeing there.
Sure we’ve already seen some pretty significant increase in productivity level although the of the our blast furnace and Dearborn we’ve been able to do kind of what we’re used to do in our other facilities and increased the throughput of that facility which obviously then flows through the rest of the entire place and is a big piece of our synergies that we count on and that we’ve so far been able to deliver upon.
We've got several improvements we've made with regard to hot mill ratio with regard to the quality of the product with regard to the stability of the quality of the product with regard to the stability of the hot strip mill and so on and so forth.
We've really brought about a whole new culture to the facility.
I think what we found in general was what we expected which was very good people.
We found very good equipment.
We found good attitudes and impingements but in some cases not so good on the practices procedures and controls.
And naturally what we brought to the facility is that cultural change and we are about to improve in all those things.
And as we improve those and enforce and then hold people accountable we expect that we will be continuing to see what we've already started which are significantly improved safety results significantly improved compliance to environmental standards improved quality and improved throughput and efficiency of the operations.
And it's well it's not very sexy it's all fully efficient and all fully effective and we've already seen some very good results from.
Okay thanks.
And I guess just as sort of a baseline $2 million in operating profit in the two weeks you owned it whether any funnies in there or is that number as a baseline extrapolatable anything around how we can use that number would be great? Probably the $2.1 million operating profit includes $2.6 million of severance cost.
So if you'd add it back that's a one-time item.
Okay okay thanks.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Levy with Jefferies.
Hey guys I know you had said that you're going to reduce uses of working capital going into the fourth quarter.
I'm just asking the weathered question you know do you guys want to get as much coal for met coal and as much iron ore you know kind of to your facility that is possible in case we have another polar vortex? And then I had a follow-up question on Magnetation.
You know you try and learn from life and lessons and I will tell you that we will be very well prepared we felt we were well prepared.
We will be very well prepared going into this winter on all fronts whether it's raw material front whether it is hedging our electricity and natural gas positions will be good to go although we do not expect another polar vortex to use your term.
We probably have a little bit higher levels of raw materials right now that we anticipated anyhow.
Just because we've had some operational difficulties and advance of the outage so you know I think whether by hook or by crook whatever sometimes we're good and sometimes we're lucky we have plenty at least we think we do.
Everything gets changed.
Well I think you know this but I just emphasized it is and the fact that we're going to get a third of our ore now from Magnetation would geographically change this things for us from our diversification standpoint and we continue to have dialogue with those producers in South America who can help us as well.
So I think we're in good shape.
And then on the Magnetation front you know FDI is actually down near 80.
Would you guys consider some sort of creative financing to help them kind of through the loss of the iron ore pricing dynamics? Yeah look I think from our standpoint overall this still works and I think for them it works and they can speak for themselves.
Longer term they would probably like a little higher and longer term we're we probably see it a little bit higher we're working closer but unless there's an important relationship that we have overall to very very good relationship we're obviously paying close attention to the startup and but we're also mindful of the IODEX levels.
We don’t have anything to announce today with respect to that.
We do have more of our presentation we're in pretty much constant dialogue at this point in time with those folks to help them through again as I said their quality is good transportation is good.
We're going to have big appetite here coming up soon when we get the Ashland blast furnace back up and running in a few weeks.
So yeah we'll see where things go obviously anytime to start a facility up it's challenging and this is no different but we'll be there for them and they'll be there for us.
Thanks very much guys.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Justine.
Good morning.
I would follow-up to Brett's question.
For those of us who aren’t familiar with Magnetation's financials I mean was there any financially stressed under these under the current annual price scenario and then on line of breadth if AK was considering another investment my question is is AK obligated to contribute anymore capital to Magnetation if their liquidity goes below its own level and how is there a number or is there a rage that you can kind of give us that might need to be required for Magnetation given that we're modeling in the lower pension and type cash payments and maybe this would offset that decline.
I'll just start on this and again encourage my colleagues here to chime in.
Again I think the project cost and Magnetation has its own public debt they'll be speaking for themselves.
This may be a bit higher plus you have to remember there are also in the midst of constructing plant for taking fines out of the ground and so there's a lot of costs that they're incurring right now and obviously what their best levels I don’t think any of us anticipated certainly we didn’t.
It adds a degree of stress.
We are not obligated to contribute additional monies.
We may choose to contribute additional monies.
So we feel that's in our company so it’s same twist but there is no required obligation on the part of AK Steel to contribute further.
Now it may not be in the answerable question but will it be kind of be a $50 million range or kind of 100 to 150 may be just a significant requirement there would it be in the double digits between 0 and 100 million? Someone is ready to comment but I'll just say again let me emphasize we're not required to contribute anything.
So to say it's 0 to 50 is kind of disregarding what I just said.
If we would elect to do something it is not big money but it could be money that could be helpful in the long run to our investment in this entity and to help them kind of get from here to there.
So I just… You know that they started up the power plants.
The construction there is basically complete.
As Jim mentioned they are working on finishing off their they are nearing the completion of plant 4 again as a now missing pellets they are reducing their image to they are improving the working capital position.
So there's a lot of things going on with the entity.
We look at this is a long term investment is there for the long term.
We know what happens with the IODEX it goes up to goes down and we have to be prepared for that.
This one is billed as to be a natural hedge for us.
And we know sometimes it may be lower and we benefit as AK Steel with holding the two thirds of our and we're going down.
And if it starts moving up we're buying.
So we're there you know it's a joint venture.
We have a long-term commitment to and as Jim said there is no required obligations but we're there to support it.
But again the amount that they need moving forward and they've got their construction completed at the pellet plant.
They are in the ramp up mode now and nearing completion of plant four.
Okay thank you very much.
And then my follow up question is on the Dearborn plant and I don’t know if you guys spoke about this when you're on the road but how much of that tonnage is going to or did go to the steel F150? And will need to be diverted into other markets.
And if you guys talked about what markets you are targeting for that steel? I think what we said Justine was that roughly half of the shipments coming out of Dearborn similar to AK Steel shipment or half of them went to the automotive space and clearly the F150 has an effect on us it will have an effect on Dearborn.
Our growth as I referenced in my prepared remarks which has been 12% ratio continues to be about double of what the market is.
It's really sufficient to offset losses that could occur there.
And I guess you know the key is over the long run where will it all shake out we're encouraging hear things like we did yesterday on the CEO of the truck division of Chrysler.
But they saying steel that's very good news to us and we would like to hear about and we think again when it comes to things like cost and safety environment reparability printability insurability I think the win is on every front.
But your question is a good one I guess it remains to be seen.
We've not given specifics and we think that losses will be offset by gains that we're making elsewhere.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Yu with Citi.
Your line is open.
Oh great thanks and good morning.
And my first question is Jim can you give us a sense of currently what you're sales mix how much of that has margins protected? Are you under the long-term contracts versus what portion of that would be more tied to fluctuations in the market prices does that change with the integration include Dearborn? So Brian I would tell you that when we look at the third quarter in terms of that shipment mix roughly 80% 75% to 80% knocking on the door of 80 would have been business of a contract nature.
Of course that runs the full gamut.
It is automotive contracts it is electrical steel contracts it is other deals that we have in place for products that are typically of one year in duration.
You know I think there is a slightly lower percent two thirds would be contract one third roughly something in that sort of range in terms of the Dearborn tonnage.
And so I think when you put all that together it will likely bring our overall percentage back down.
Of course we're working hard to continue to grow contract business that really is our sweet spot.
As I said before steel is viewed as somewhat of a commodity a homogenous study we tend to take issue with that really want to serve more difficult applications the contract business the coated the exposed business and so it's incumbent on us to readily take the assets that we got and move them to a higher plane.
And we're in the midst of doing that which will give us a lot more flexibility in terms of selling to others of a contract nature.
But that gives you some sense of where we are and the direction we are heading in.
Okay that's helpful and then just a clarification on the contract did you say that those are under annual negotiations from a pricing standpoint or are there portions of that that would also move with what we're seeing in the spot market? Some of those would have adjustors if you will associated to one metric or another perhaps quarterly.
The vast majority would not they would be sort of agreed upon.
They might have embedded other issues in them or cost adjustors in them with respect to some sort of input cost.
Increasingly I would tell you that we're moving away from that approach as we have more of our own materials under our own control and there are vehicles available to customers to hedge their positions.
So yeah there are certain adjustors in there but to try and give you a sense of how much with a correlation it's really across the Board.
All right and the question on GOES you mentioned that demand is picking up.
I am wondering why are you guys from utilization rates standpoint and do you see national pick up where you might still see some pricing power as you head into negotiations for next year? We're certainly seeking higher prices.
I will just say that and I will tell you prices are up off the bottom as are volumes.
So there is a lot of upside potential here in terms of our capacity.
I don’t know that we've given a number recently so I'll be a little hesitant on that except to say that you know not quite a double but there's a lot more out there and we're anxious to serve it more ways away from that.
Housing has come back fairly nicely.
We think it will be over a million housing starts for this year.
But I would tell you that that's still way shy like 50% shy of the peak and so there's a long way to go and then the demographics within as you know multi-units single unit or changing as well.
But you've got other things at play here you've got an improving nonresidential construction marketplace that's helpful and I think you've got this entire push towards the more efficient electrical steels.
This whole business of the efficiency standards kicking in and a year or so from now here and in Europe is very valuable to us as we continue to move up that more efficient mix.
I think we have said in the past that we've got capacity 275 000 to 300 000 tons we're well below that.
We're well below that and so tremendous upside from here.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
So listen thanks again everyone for being part of our call today.
We greatly appreciate your interest in AK Steel.
We wish you all the best for a great day a better tomorrow and a terrific fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.