Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release which was issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company's Web-site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you very much Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call and a special thanks to those of you on the call who are enduring blizzard conditions in the Northeast.
I'm delighted to share some of the highlights of AK Steel's best quarter of the year 2014 and our best quarter in the past 3.5 years and for the year 2014 represented our best annual performance since 2008.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we achieved record Company shipments of over 2 million tons and record revenues of nearly $2 billion.
Our EBITDA topped $117 million and at the bottom line we delivered adjusted net income of $26.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
And it's important to note that we achieved these results despite a major planned maintenance outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
The outage was taken in order to reline the parts of the furnace for the first time in about three decades.
The expensed portion of the outage totaled some $31 million.
I might add that the job went very well and was completed safely on budget and ahead of schedule.
The Ashland blast furnace is operating well and with the work that was just completed we expect to be well positioned there for the next five years with a full reline of the furnace not expected until 2019.
So exactly how is it that we're improving our financial performance? Let me take a moment or two to highlight the key contributing factors.
First I want to give credit where credit is due to our people.
Let me express my gratitude to the men and women of AK Steel and offer my congratulations on a solid fourth quarter and a strong finish to the year 2014.
Their hard work and dedication continue to produce industry-leading safety quality and productivity performances.
Second during the fourth quarter we benefited from lower raw material and energy costs compared to the third quarter.
Prices for steelmaking inputs and especially for iron ore and carbon scrap continued to slide which bolstered our results.
Third this was the first full quarter of owning and operating Dearborn Works.
Our performance at Dearborn exceeded our own high expectations and was accretive to our earnings.
Factoring the fourth quarter Dearborn Works established all-time records for safety allowing the lowest number of OSHA recordable injuries in any quarter ever; in quality dramatically reducing rejected and retreated products as well as secondary sales; in productivity achieving substantial gains in steelmaking and setting production records at the coating line.
From a cost-based synergy standpoint I'm pleased to report that we are exceeding our previously announced targets.
For example for the first full year of ownership of Dearborn we had previously said that we expected $25 million in synergies.
We now believe the potential exist to double this amount.
Since we have acquired the assets gotten into the plant and assessed the situation we continue to see more opportunities ahead.
So we are raising the bar and setting higher expectations in all areas doing more and doing better faster with better quality and safer than in the past.
That's who we are at AK Steel and that's what we're bringing to Dearborn Works.
I want to express my thanks to the [indiscernible] employees of Dearborn Works and to the Dearborn integration team for getting us this far this fast.
It's been exciting and to some extent it's been daunting but we're confident that the best is yet to come.
Overall 2014 was a year of progress for AK Steel.
After battling unprecedented extreme winter weather conditions energy price spikes a shortage of pellets and operational challenges we overcame adversity and generated adjusted net income for each of the final three quarters of the year.
We continue to profitably grow the business.
We increased our automotive shipments by 12% compared to overall auto market sales that grew by about 6%.
We set a record for auto-chrome shipments and the electrical steel business began to rebound.
We completed our investments in our strategic raw material ventures which are part of our long-term strategy to hedge our positions improve our self-sufficiency and reduce our costs.
During 2014 we successfully negotiated four new labor contracts including packs at AK Tube Ashland Middletown and Mansfield and as we head into 2015 we're in good shape with only one labor contract expiring at Zanesville in May of this year and we hope to attain a new labor deal at Mountain State at some point.
All of the progress we made in 2014 positions us well for a much better year in 2015 as we expect to benefit from continued gains in our chosen markets significant reductions in cost for raw materials and energy and a full year of growth opportunities from our Dearborn operations and further realization of increasing cost-based synergies.
And I might add for the first time in many years we expect to go from being a consumer of cash to a cash generator.
Being cash flow positive obviously creates many opportunities for AK Steel and for our shareholders.
So the future is bright for AK Steel in many ways [indiscernible].
That said each year brings with it certain challenges and for 2015 the first challenge that we're facing is depressed pricing in the carbon steel spot market.
Simply put there's too much supply for the current demand level.
Why? Because of imports.
Between 2013 and 2014 flat-rolled finished carbon and steel imports rose by some 60%.
For the year we saw more than 11 million net tons of flat-rolled carbon steel imports compared to less than 7 million tons in the prior year.
To put that into perspective it's the equivalent of having a new 4 million ton steel mill appear roughly overnight in the domestic carbon steel market.
The increased supply has had a negative impact on pricing in the domestic market especially in the spot market.
The fact has put undue pressure on carbon prices and we experienced a bigger price decline than we expected in the fourth quarter of '14.
As a result it's off this low base that we embarked for 2015.
In terms of our sales mix for this year we expect approximately 75% of our Company sales to take place in the contract market with the remaining 25% in the spot market for 2015.
However that 25% sold in the spot market represents a real wildcard for us for the first quarter and in all likelihood for all of 2015.
Given the troubled economies outside the United States and the huge increase in their steel exports to the U.S.
our attorneys are taking a hard look at whether or not a trade case should be filed.
But one thing is crystal clear we've been injured.
Both AK Steel and the U.S.
steel industry have been significantly harmed as America has become the dumping ground for foreign-produced steel.
How fast we can prove injury and how quickly we can accelerate the process is key.
I might add that our contract pricing is not immune and in fact has already been hurt as well from the pricing pressures brought about by the sharp increase in lower-priced imports.
When all the numbers are tallied we expect that finished steel import figures for 2014 will show it to be the highest import market share in history at about 28%.
Clearly we're focused on this issue and you'll be hearing more about it.
So stay tuned.
At AK Steel we're in the business to provide our customers with the finest quality carbon stainless and electrical steel products available on the planet.
Our mantra if you will is to serve customers better than any other steel maker.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 Jacobson and Associates' independent survey of carbon steel customers showed that AK Steel was number one in quality delivery of service and overall customer satisfaction compared to our integrated steel competitors.
In addition the Jacobson survey showed that AK Steel's specialty customers also gave us their number one ranking in the areas of quality and service key areas that are vital in the specialty steel space.
We'll continue to take the best possible care of our customers as together we learn to grow profitably.
Now let me offer a few comments on what things look like as we enter the year 2015 and what we expect to see as this year unfolds.
Although we'll wait to provide specific guidance on the first quarter until March of this year let me give you a general sense of what we're currently seeing and what we expect going forward.
The automotive market which represents approximately 50% of our sales remains very strong.
The build schedules for 2015 are projected to be 2% to 3% higher than 2014 and that would represent the sixth consecutive year of automotive build increases.
AK Steel shipments to the automotive industry have increased at a greater percentage than the build schedules in each of the past three years and we expect that trend to continue in 2015 where we see growth with each of our automotive customer.
Based on a continuing positive outlook for the automotive sector that shows auto builds exceeding 17 million units for 2015 we anticipate higher shipments of carbon and stainless steel products to automotive customers this year.
Despite all the media hype over aluminum at AK Steel we expect to ship more steel to automotive customers in 2015 than we did in 2014.
As to automotive contract pricing our automotive customers realize that import or spot market pricing really doesn't apply or certainly is not as important of a factor in their value-added purchasing decisions.
Of course they look at cost and steel market conditions but they tend to put much greater emphasis on other items such as 100% on-time delivery exceptional product quality value added product availability and outstanding customer service before and after the sale.
Each of these represents areas where AK Steel excels.
Moving from the auto to the housing sector for a moment housing has also picked up considerably up more than 7% in 2014.
New housing starts reached the 1 million unit mark for the past year.
This was the first time they did so since 2007.
For 2015 new housing starts are expected to grow by about 20% to roughly 1.2 million units.
Obviously this is a great positive for appliance and HVAC demand for power generation and transmission demand and for overall steel demand.
The infrastructure and manufacturing or I&amp;M market is also strengthening.
This market is where we will benefit from improving construction activity both residential and non-residential as well as gains in general manufacturing.
We are especially excited to see that the non-res construction market is expected to be much more favorable in 2015 than 2014.
Service center inventories have been an important topic recently as many service centers ended 2014 with higher inventory levels due to their import purchases.
Carbon flat-rolled inventories finished 2014 at nearly 6.2 million net tons.
That's up almost 12% from November levels and about 24% ahead of year ago levels.
At December 31 2014 the number of months' supply on hand stood at 2.6 on a seasonally adjusted basis compared to 2.3 months at November 30 and 2.1 months at the end of 2013.
Historically speaking 2.5 months' of supply on hand is considered normal for flat-rolled products.
Importantly demand from those who buy from the service centers remains strong.
Demand appears to be very solid frankly so service centers will need to buy steel from domestic producers to fill that need.
They are simply being cautious about when how much and at what price given their inventory levels and import price quotes.
Now let me offer a few thoughts on the stainless steel market.
AK Steel's focus of the stainless arena is really around producing 400 series or auto-chrome products to serve automakers and auto exhaust producers with some of the finest [indiscernible] product in the world.
In 2014 we set a Company record for 400 series stainless shipments and we look for an even better year in 2015.
Similarly we're looking for increased shipments of our specialty sheet and strip products that are produced mostly at our Coshocton Works.
From a volume standpoint we're not a big player in the commodity chrome nickel market which remains a very crowded place to be.
We tend to be opportunistic here and instead focus more on bringing innovative products to the stainless market such as our recently introduced CHROMESHIELD 22 product.
As we were seeing in the electrical steel market the massive Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel or GOES market continues to show signs of real sustained growth.
In other words that's growth unrelated to weather issues.
This is particularly the case in the electrical distribution market.
That said due to the negative ruling by the ITC in the GOES trade case which we've appealed we're unsure whether the increased demand will be supplied by AK Steel or by dumped imports.
On the international GOES front demand and prices are also improving.
In fact GOES suppliers continue to increase prices worldwide especially in the high-efficiency PCH grades where we excel.
We expect demand from high-efficiency GOES grades will continue to strengthen due to the increased efficiency standards in Europe that take effect this year in 2015 and similar standards that become effective January 1 2016 for the United States of America.
Moving for a moment from revenues to cost we expect to benefit meaningfully in 2015 from lower raw material and energy costs including coal coke iron ore pellets natural gas and electricity.
In order to lock in some of the lower cost and help reduce volatility to our earnings stream we've hedged a portion of our 2015 raw material and energy needs.
In terms of iron ore pellets we're purchasing roughly 70% of our iron ore requirements in the open market with the remaining approximate 30% being supplied by our Magnetation joint venture.
It's worth noting that the percentage of open-market purchases is higher than we previously expected because of our acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Magnetation is making progress in ramping up its new pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana and shipping pellets to our Ashland Works blast furnace for consumption there.
As expected the initial pellet quality was good and is continuing to improve.
In addition in December of 2014 Magnetation completed the construction of the final concentrate facility otherwise known as Plant Four and successfully started up this plant to feed the pellet plant in Indiana.
Truly an exciting time for Magnetation and the startup of the pellet plant is an event that all of us at AK Steel have been greatly looking forward to.
Again having said that the convergence of the startup of the pellet plant the startup of the concentrate Plant Four and the drastic decline in the level of the IODEX has created an additional challenge for Magnetation.
Make no mistake we love paying less in the short-term for iron ore pellets but we're in this for the long term with them.
Mostly we want to make sure that the Magnetation joint venture is a success for years if not decades to come.
Accordingly we'll continue to work with Magnetation as they battle through this challenging time.
Let me just take a moment to emphasize that we're not required to invest any additional equity in the Magnetation joint venture.
However Magnetation is strategically important to us and we'll continue to support Magnetation as long as it makes good financial sense for AK Steel to do so.
Also I take this opportunity to address concerns that some investors have expressed related to the lower drilling rig count in light of lower gasoline prices and the impact on AK Steel.
To be clear AK Steel does not produce seamless tube oil country tubular goods or OCTG products nor are we a big player in welded line pipe for the energy market.
Some of AK Steel's products do ultimately make it into the energy sector but again let me reiterate that this is not a major market for any of our products.
Instead we're focused on the automotive market and in helping our customers meet their goals for light-weighting with the best high-strength steels.
Increasingly we're working with our customers to incorporate our advanced high-strength steels in those products into their vehicles.
Falling gas prices also mean that consumers have more disposable income.
They are driving more and they are buying larger more steel intensive vehicles.
These are very good aspects of falling gas prices that are benefiting AK Steel.
If any of you were fortunate enough to attend the 2015 Detroit Auto Show earlier this month you saw the great strides that advanced high-strength steels are making in the automobile industry.
As a matter of fact this segment advanced high-strength steels is the fastest-growing material in light-duty vehicles and our focus of course is on developing third-generation advanced high-strength steels to create stronger and more formable steel products for our customers.
Simply put steel matters.
We strongly believe that steel matters and we believe that our customers agree with that and that consumers feel that way as well and we intend to keep it that way at AK Steel.
Before turning it over to Roger for a financial recap let me say that at AK Steel we are driven to perform in 2015 with Dearborn where the automotive industry in America began.
Now being part of the AK Steel family we're driven in the acronym – driven will be our Company's approach this year; to achieve in the case of the Dearborn Works synergies to complete the plant's integration and realize the synergies higher than we originally expected as quickly as possible.
In the case of how to run our operations consistently well with the special focus on running three blast furnaces to their peak efficiency.
In the case of how to improve our sales margins with a combination of higher prices where possible and lower operating input and overhead costs.
And to the case of validate our strategic raw material investments that is AK Coal and Magnetation as their start-ups and ramp-ups are really key in 2015.
And most importantly to significantly improve ROE our earnings and our cash flow as we negotiate great deals on all fronts with customers suppliers and others deals that pave the way for an even brighter future for AK Steel.
Thank you all very much for your attention.
Now for a review of our financials let me turn it over to AK Steel's Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported adjusted net income of $26.1 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014 which exceeded our guidance of $0.05 to $0.10 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our adjusted net income excludes one-time expenses in the fourth quarter which totaled $12.6 million.
These costs related to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as a pension corridor charge and an OPEB settlement charge.
The pension corridor charge was mostly due to a reduction in the discount rate of approximately 70 basis points compared to the discount rate at the end of 2013 and the application of updated actuarial tables that project longer lifespans.
These impacts were partially offset by the excellent return on our pension trust investments up approximately 9.5% for 2014 a level that was more than 200 basis points higher than our assumed rate of return.
As expected included in our fourth quarter results were $31 million or $0.17 per share of cost associated with the planned outage at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
Our fourth quarter 2014 results also included $11 million of cost associated with other planned major maintenance outages.
In total our planned outages in the fourth quarter were about $42 million which was $41 million higher than what we had incurred in the third quarter of 2014.
At the bottom line our fourth quarter results were an improvement over the third quarter results and they also represented our best quarter of 2014 and our best results since the second quarter of 2011.
Our shipments of 2 010 200 tons for the fourth quarter of 2014 represented an increase of 547 000 tons or about a 37% increase compared to the third quarter of 2014 and were in line with our guidance.
The higher level of shipments was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
It also reflected continuing strong demand for our automotive products.
However as we indicated in our December guidance with a higher percentage of carbon steel shipments sold into the spot market as a result of the Dearborn acquisition our average selling price for the fourth quarter was $987 per ton.
This was a decrease of $102 per ton or roughly 9% lower than the third quarter average selling price.
Sales increased significantly for the fourth quarter and totaled just under $2 billion.
This was about 25% higher than our third quarter sales and once again was mostly due to the addition of Dearborn Works for a full quarter.
In the fourth quarter we had a LIFO credit of $5.3 million.
This was less than half of our LIFO credit of $10.9 million for the third quarter.
Included in our fourth quarter LIFO credit was a $14.5 million credit associated with the acquisition of Dearborn compared to a $7.3 million LIFO credit in the third quarter related to the acquisition.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with the comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest that are in our operating results acquisition related costs and our pension corridor charge and OPEB settlement loss.
As a reminder our non-controlling interest consists primarily of SunCoke Middletown.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $117 million which represented an improvement of $16.5 million or 16% compared to our third quarter adjusted EBITDA.
Even after incurring the $31 million of costs associated with the hearth reline of our Ashland blast furnace our fourth quarter EBITDA results represented our strongest quarter of 2014 as well as our best quarter in the last '14.
Moving to our results for the full year of 2014 shipments for 2014 totaled 6 132 700 tons an increase of approximately 857 000 tons or 16% compared to 2013.
Our average selling price for 2014 was $1 058 per ton which was virtually identical to the prior year.
Sales for 2014 were $6.5 billion compared to $5.6 billion in 2013 an annual increase of nearly 17% again driven primarily by Dearborn.
Moving from sales to our operations in addition to the $31 million in cost for the planned repairs completed at the Ashland Works blast furnace during the fourth quarter of 2014 we incurred additional expenses of approximately $41 million during the year related to unplanned Ashland blast furnace outages in 2014.
At the bottom line for the year 2014 we reported an adjusted net loss of $59.7 million or $0.40 per share compared to a net loss of $46.8 million or $0.34 per share for the year 2013.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statement for the fourth quarter of 2014 our capital investments totaled approximately $42 million compared to roughly $11 million in the third quarter.
For the year our capital investments totaled $80 million compared to $60 million in 2013.
Working capital was a use of cash of approximately $19 million during the fourth quarter.
We chose to increase our stainless and electrical inventories to support the continuing strong demand for these products.
However we are still carrying higher raw material inventories due to our Ashland Works blast furnace operations in 2014.
For the full year working capital was a use of cash of approximately $154 million as we ended the year with higher than normal levels of raw materials.
By comparison in 2013 working capital was a source of $70 million of cash.
We ended the year 2014 with solid liquidity of $872 million.
As we previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014.
Accordingly we continue to be well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations.
On a strategic front in the fourth quarter we invested $10 million in our iron ore joint venture with Magnetation thus completing our investment requirement.
For the year 2014 we invested a total of $100 million in the Magnetation.
Regarding our balance sheet despite the higher than projected performance of our pension investment portfolio we experienced an increase in our pension and OPEB liabilities.
This increase was attributable to the application of updated actuarial tables that project longer lifespans as well as the decrease in the discount rate of about 70 basis points.
The increase in the pension liabilities was partially mitigated and foreseen by our successful completion of a buyout program with a group of participants in our pension plan.
This allowed us to remove $125 million in liabilities from our pension obligations with the payment from the pension trust assets of approximately $105 million.
This was a very successful program and is yet another step in our strategy to continue to de-risk and deleverage our balance sheet.
While retiree benefit obligations on our balance sheet increased it is important to note that our 2015 and 2016 funding requirements did not increase.
We still expect to contribute approximately $35 million to the pension fund in 2015 and approximately $15 million in the year 2016.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide detailed financial guidance in March.
That said we would like to provide you with a few data points for 2015 at this time.
In 2015 we anticipate approximately $150 million in capital investments with approximately 20% of these investments targeted to projects that will enhance our business and margins and the balance being mostly in maintenance CapEx.
As we have previously indicated the substantial reductions in our cash flow requirements provide us with enhanced flexibility including this opportunity to reinvest in our business.
We also expect working capital to be a source of cash in 2015.
This will be driven in part by a reduction in our coke inventories and other raw material inventories.
We anticipate that our combined pension and OPEB credit for 2015 will be a credit of approximately $65 million compared to a credit of $93 million for 2014.
Our 2015 depreciation expense including our VIE is expected to be approximately $225 million in 2015 compared to $202 million in 2014.
This increase is primarily due to acquiring the assets of Dearborn Works.
Finally with regard to income taxes our 2015 book tax rate as in recent years will be a function of changes in our LIFO reserve.
For example if we incur a LIFO credit we will incur a tax expense and if we incur a LIFO charge then we will incur a tax benefit.
In addition given our NOL tax carryforward position we expect that our cash taxes will continue to be very minimal.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Timna Tanners of Bank of America please go ahead with your question.
I just wondered if you could drill down a little bit on the comments you made about Magnetation about if you have parameters around what kind of contribution you might make to help them as they start up? And then separately if you could comment there's some concern about Dearborn I know that steel still matters and aluminum is going to take in minimum market share but it has been in F-150 so there's some concern Dearborn has been looking for orders and that that's been a struggle can you just address that a little bit in detail please? First off in terms of Magnetation again to be clear it's this convergence of factors that they've had with the startup of the pellet plant the startup of Plant Four and the IODEX I believe this morning falling all the way to low 60s.
Let's just step back from all of that.
First all of our required investment is complete as Roger mentioned in his prepared comments.
We're in for just shy of $300 million.
Clearly this is part of a longer-term strategy notwithstanding the short-term challenges that it faces.
They are doing a great job for us and we expect them to do more and receive something like a quarter of our total pellet needs in this year from Magnetation.
So it's clearly an important part today and will be an important part in the future and we'll be glad that we have it for years to come.
As far as the situation again I would just reiterate Timna that if and when it makes sense for AK Steel in terms of preserving our and protecting our investment and ensuring that our strategy is in place as a long-term hedge we would certainly consider providing some limited financial support to Magnetation because of the relationship that we have and the long-term nature of this investment.
I don't think we're in a position today to really quantify that.
We're obviously looking to Magnetation to do everything it can to lower its cost.
I would emphasize that one of the reasons that we invested initially in Magnetation is we believe that they are indeed a low-cost producer and over the long run will deliver great value to AK Steel probably at little bit higher IODEX levels than we're experiencing today the lowest in 5.5 to 6 years.
But it's going to be really very competitive with our cheapest alternative supply today.
So we'll continue to have great dialog with them as they think about the various means of improving their business and sort of getting from here to there but we'll not really say any more than that except to say that we'll be there.
On the Dearborn matter again I think as we stated in our remarks we said that Dearborn would be transformative and Dearborn has been transformative.
It is a fantastic opportunity for us.
We got it for a great price.
It's a business we know and it gives us a tremendous growth platform.
So we are thrilled to death if that's a right term so far with what we've gotten out of it.
Look inevitably as we transition the product mix as we continue to diversify the customer base there will be challenges and we'll turn those challenges into opportunities.
That's exactly what we're doing.
We want to make more exposed product we want to put more into the automotive space and less into the spot market.
All of that sort of things take time.
Your specific point on the F-150 is a good one.
Undoubtedly the F-150 is a great product and Ford has rolled that out and it's gotten a lot of buzz.
I found it particularly interesting and insightful that Joe Hendricks who is Ford's Head of America indicated that he really doesn't he not me he doesn't expect to see a dramatic increase in aluminum body cars and I thought that was particularly noteworthy given all the attention that Ford trucks have garnered recently.
So steel indeed still matters.
It matters to Ford Motor Company it matters to all the automotive producers it certainly matters to us and our entire focus here at the Company is on serving the ever-changing needs of our customers with vehicle light weighting products.
We're where we need to be today.
The key is what do we do next? We've got a lot of things in motion in our research and innovation activities that we're very close to determining which way to go or several ways to go and we'll have more to say about that very very soon.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
And we'll move on to our next question.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JP Morgan.
I have a couple of questions.
Could you give us the current mix with Dearborn for the Company contract versus spot and contract being anything that's locked in beyond say three months? I think our contract mix rolling Dearborn in is probably 75-25 sort of mix Michael.
Prior to Dearborn we might have touched as high as 80-20 but we've come back a bit just given the mix that we have up at Dearborn.
And in terms of your commentary about the Ford F-150 I understand there's not a lot of aluminum capacity in terms of body-wide capacity that's ready to go right now for 2015 so it's not going to have a big impact on your auto sales for '15 but beyond that it could.
And in terms of an impact right now are the automotive companies basically talking to you when they are talking about price that's in their contracts right now are they basically using that threat of switching to aluminum as kind of a hammer over your head to knock prices down on your contracts business? Again it starts with relationships and great dialog in relationships and understanding what it is that they want.
There's been a lot of dialog on what can you do what do you want and we have to kind of find that great meeting place.
Some are a little bit more clear than others as they continue to think their way through but much of the design work now goes out towards the end of this decade.
That's really what we are in discussions on.
So steel is in fairly good position for a while.
We take nothing for granted though Michael as you know.
I mean look we didn't underestimate we don't underestimate now.
There's a serious threat.
We've got to have the products we've got them today but the important thing is as vehicle designers and engineers plan for those future bodies and exteriors that we're there with them and we think everything that we're doing and particularly in terms of third-gen advanced high strength steels in terms of the high strength the formability the weldability cost competitiveness environmental friendliness all those things we bring to the party and then some to keep it steel.
And I would say while there's a good dialog and it's a very healthy dialog back and forth across the table it's not being used as a threat or a hammer to try and extract price or volume from us.
Then I thought you said earlier on that your contract pricing was being negatively impacted right now.
Could you expand on that? I'd just say that again in the spirit of the dance and cooperation and so forth clearly those who buy product see what's happening in terms of import pricing.
We remind them of all the things that we do and they know that it's a very difficult thing if not impossible to get from imported products but we sell value at AK Steel right.
Value is what you get price is what you pay.
And I think that those who know us and know us well understand that.
Having said that they are not shy about using all the tools at their disposal to help with their negotiations.
That 75% contract is any part of that floating or indexed? Certainly some portion of it is Michael.
I mean most of the automotive deals that we do whether it's with OEMs or with 400 series of stainless buyers those are largely set and they might have some variable component in them but there's a component say in the I&amp;M space that would have a reset mechanism could be a function of any number of things CRU or otherwise that could float as the year goes.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Good quarter.
Jim or Roger can you talk a little bit about additional opportunities you may see at Magnetation bonds right now or offering sort of I don't know if this is going to be a strong and enduring relationship very compelling would you guys in addition to making investments to fund their liquidating potentially look at buying some bonds there? I guess all things are possible.
That's been really something we've spent a lot of time thinking about.
I'll just go back to I think Magnetation knows the challenge that they have they are working through it and looking to kind of get from here to there as they go through this ramp-up phase or phases and deal with this incredibly low IODEX situation.
I don't know Roger do you want to… Sure.
They're basically taking lot of actions to address their liquidity their tight liquidity that they currently have.
They pretty much have the issues going on regarding their starting up and still ramping up their pellet plant.
They're having a concentrate facility up and running and then producing the pellets to bring down their inventories of the concentrate inventory they built to support the pellet plant.
So you have all those that are creating the tightness and as Jim said we're there to work with them for the long term we want to be successful but we got to make sure we do it right for our Company also.
If anybody's securities are cheap it's those of AK Steel whether it's our notes or our incredibly undervalued stock.
Glad you have the opportunity to say that.
Also at Magnetation I think on their call they mentioned that if liquidity was tight and there wasn't a longer-term resolution that probably they would taper back the amount that they could ship from Plant Four in their pellet plant to AK.
Is there still a target to get to 50% supply from those guys or actually no it won't be less than that but a much higher percentage that they were targeting or is that going to be slowed down a bit? With Dearborn that would be much less than 50% it would be more like 30% 35% and we're tapering up on that a bit as they continue to ramp up their production.
This year we'll be somewhere around 25%.
So it will be a bit of a change over time but it won't be for the 50% allocated to Dearborn.
And just as an editorial add-on I think Kirk's comments are right on except it's important that everybody on the call understand that Magnetation is great but we're still buying this year three quarters of iron ore needs in the open market and we'll be benefiting substantially from roughly a 50% drop from where prices were a year ago.
This is exactly why we have – we don't put all of our eggs in one basket we don't want to be fully integrated we don't want to be 100% exposed to the market because one cannot quite call that very well it's been difficult for all of us to call that.
So this is a really wonderful position for us to be in we're happy about it and we think in the long run it's going to serve us really really well.
Our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now opened.
Just a question on Dearborn as far as the synergy target you put out there $50 million for this year how much of that synergy did you begin to realize potentially in the fourth quarter and what really are you changing operationally to get to that number? The fourth quarter we would estimate that we benefited by about $5 million in synergies for the quarter and going forward as Jim mentioned that we have targeted in the first year of owning that we would anticipate getting $25 million of synergies and as he indicated in his remarks that we believe that we have the opportunity to possibly double that amount.
Part of it is driven on what levels we produce at.
We see the opportunities as we've talked about previously of increasing our hot ended operations increasing our blast furnace production because they are blast furnace constrained at Dearborn.
So that is one of the key drivers which will be partly driven by how the market conditions are.
But overall we've also been making improvements in regards to secondary.
We have improved on the quality side and reduced our secondary and we see still opportunity there to improve the quality.
I'll just say that we're changing a whole lot of things at Dearborn and it really started with accountability and efficiencies in the operations throughout all aspects.
Our safety performance has improved there significantly and the fourth quarter was the best quarter they ever had on the best year we've ever had.
So that's taken a big step forward quality-wise.
As Roger mentioned not only the secondary sales but our retreats and reject levels are improved by some 30% or so from the fourth quarter versus the rest of the year which was already ahead of direction.
So [indiscernible] we've increased the productivity of the blast furnace significantly the sequence length of the caster is significantly improved as Jim mentioned earlier record levels of production at the galv line so across-the-board improvements.
Thanks for all that color and just have a question on iron ore what should we be looking for or expect as far as potential benefit in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter are you expecting your iron ore cost to be down even more so than they were in the fourth? Let me give you some color commentary there of what's been happening with the IODEX.
I'll take you back to the first quarter of last year when we entered 2014 the IODEX was at $134.
It continued to drop throughout the year.
It ended in the fourth quarter at $94.
The first quarter is already priced because that's the form of lag that has already been priced but that is at $79 a ton.
And if you would look to the second quarter which is based on the December through February timeframe for pricing the second quarter based on where things are trending we would anticipate that to be in the low 70s.
I would just also add if I could it's important to understand that in most cases with the external deals that we have there are several components three maybe four components so it's not a one for one fall.
Even though those IODEX numbers that Roger just quoted are sort of unbelievably great and dramatic for us there is a percentage that one would have to apply to that to see that fall through and whether that's a quarter or a third or something in that range.
Nonetheless it's very important to us and we are obviously taking advantage of the opportunity in this environment to put some caps and collars in place from a hedging perspective for 2015 and beyond.
The Strip yesterday was selling forward into 2016 at under $60 a ton and we think that's a pretty good and attractive opportunity all of which will position us well we think for the foreseeable future with respect to input cost.
And on the hedging side our strategy is to capture any downside benefits while we're also limiting any risk on the upside.
So that's our approach on hedging environment.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
I heard that Ford speech as well as you did and it was very insightful as to why you don't use a little aluminum car compared to a truck unless car starts hauling cargo but the question that I have for you is what's the breakdown of your contract business between cars and trucks? I don't know that we've ever said that publicly so I don't know that I'd go there today.
Obviously the F-150 and the S-series are very important to us very important to everybody as the biggest selling vehicle but I think over time I think America has really moved towards trucks and SUVs and minivans and so forth.
So I suppose we're tracking whatever that mix is in the market overall Chuck.
I don't think we'd be necessarily any different than that.
And another area on the stainless side the 409 for exhaust systems do you have any kind of number of how much would be used in let's say a hybrid vehicle compared to a standard gasoline engine? Looking around the room and I don't think we have a specific number for you.
Obviously our focus there is continue to help with all of the higher temperature exhaust system requirements and sort of meet the efficiency needs and the environmental needs there.
In fact one of the things that we're going to spend more money on this year is up that Mansfield the 400 series capital if you will of America where we're putting in more money into the AOD just to be able to make more and to serve that marketplace but I don't know that we have a good breakout for you but we'll give that some thought when we response in the future.
And then finally any guesstimates of how much of the orientated steels go into an electric vehicle and the motors or what have you compared to obviously a standard car? For us we're in the power generation and distribution business.
That would be in the 90% plus kind of thing.
So it's relatively small portion but again it's part of our overall plan to continue to grow with that marketplace and we've had some meaningful growth but we're still by and large serving the energy distribution sector.
Our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Just a question I guess more on near-term what we've seen with steel prices falling you talked about your attorneys looking at a case and commenting on injury experience to-date I guess what do you think holds back the timing there and absent any sort of trade filings what do you think you can do to help tighten up the market is there a maintenance that you would consider bringing forward this year or anything in that respect? I think first off we're observing and reacting accordingly as an independent company making independent decisions about production and sales.
We're doing what makes sense for AK Steel but we are obviously observing this ugly pricing I'll be kind and use those words but our sense is frankly that carbon spot pricing is at or near the bottom as the gap between U.S.
and foreign offerings has narrowed considerably $100 plus really off the peak to now and about $70 off levels from maybe three months ago rather.
Demand is solid as I mentioned before service and inventories are in line at about 2.6 months as I mentioned versus maybe 2.5 months historically.
So the trade case issue we have to look at that given what's going on here in our marketplace and really the key to us is fair trade that fair trade as opposed to free trade.
There is a huge difference.
And really we have to stand tall as an industry and as a country.
Imports have to be fairly traded not dumped.
We either stand for something or we stand for nothing and I'm confident that as other economies have struggled and are continuing to struggle they view America as the dumping ground keeping their mills operating abroad employing their people shifting their excess production here.
So no doubt we've been injured by the excess of imports.
We don't have a particular timeline but I'm obviously encouraged our inside and external counsel to get about the business of wrapping this up so that we can seek relief.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
The first question that I had was on the free cash flow.
You guys had mentioned that you expect AK to be cash flow positive in 2015 and I was just wondering what factors that included is that just EBITDA less interest less CapEx does that include your pension payments? Starting maybe with that one and Roger can chime in obviously as we mentioned we have no further required investments in Magnetation.
That's $100 million delta year-over-year.
The pension contributions are down $150 million.
There's a variety of other things OPEB and so forth.
And there's nearly a $300 million delta just in terms of the uses and obviously as I mentioned while we haven't given annual guidance we expect a better year.
So all those things taken together put us in that wonderful position of being free cash flow positive.
I think that obviously begs the question then of what are you going to do with your cash? We're obviously spending a little bit more into the business for a variety of we think very good reasons to position us well for the future.
I'd say in terms of other priorities we have many opportunities here and our board really can't consider those and this is really the purview of the board that we obviously levered up substantially to get from the 2008 timeframe to today so delevering the balance sheet would be one priority advantaging our shareholders would be another priority as we look at that particularly in the stock price where it's currently at and then finally continuing to invest serve our customers in the future with the products that they need.
Those are sort of three buckets and categories all very important I wouldn't necessarily put one ahead of the other at this point.
And I'd also comment as you know we have levers we've put in place and we have the [borrowing] [ph] that we just settled on and made the final payments there so our retiree benefit payments will drop from '14 to '15.
And the other key item when you're looking at operating cash flow is our working capital.
We were a big use of cash in 2014 and we plan for that to be a source of cash in 2015.
Okay thanks.
And then the second question I had was back on the iron ore price side to approach the issue again so you mentioned that you still had 70% of your iron ore that's purchased in the open market at IODEX plus some sort of premium which I think makes sense to everybody we know that to actually get ore shipped in pellet form cost a little bit more but my question is is there a floor on how low your iron ore cost could go because I think the perception in the market is that you guys especially versus integrated peers should benefit significantly as iron ore prices go down but as we see the IODEX drop and drop and drop let's say it goes to 60 or 65 is there a floor to the benefit that you guys will have because for example at least on the 30% for Magnetation there is a limit to how little they can charge you for iron ore before they start burning cash should we think about it in that way or can the 70% at least that's going through IODEX go down as far as IODEX goes down? The further down it goes the more money we make.
There is no floor with respect to our external contracts period.
With respect to Magnetation as we mentioned before obviously their costs are their costs and particularly they are a little bit higher as they ramp-up.
We'll be supportive of them to the extent it makes sense.
But net-net putting those two things together AK Steel will clearly benefit if the IODEX continues to fall.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now opened.
Congrats on all the improvements you guys are making.
Just a quick question first what is the cost of those collars that you guys have put in place? In regards to iron ore? Yes.
As I indicated part of our strategy has been to be able to avoid or to enjoy the downside as it goes down and to cap it so it would go up.
So we currently have about 2.3 million tons of iron ore hedge at the end of the year and about 70% of that is related to 2015 hedges.
So we have that portion hedged.
Part of that will be under swaps.
Those we kind of do over time we layer them in over time so it's kind of a moving target each week each month as we layer those levels on.
As we continue through the year we'll continue to add levels to it.
And then in regards to the options we have out there that is more probably set that we would be protected for those fortune if they would go if the IODEX would take up north of 70 the [low] [ph] 70s that we would be protected from that side but the goal there is that we benefit as the IODEX falls if it continues to fall.
Alright thanks for that Roger.
Then you indicated just to focus in a little bit more on Dearborn could you give us an idea of where your mix was in the fourth quarter i.e.
percentage of hot-rolled versus value-add and how you see this trending over the next couple of quarters? For the fourth quarter our value-added mix was about 74%.
That compares historically we were running earlier this year around 85%.
So we have reduced a little bit.
There's two factors there that are driving that of course the addition of Dearborn and the change in the automotive platform especially with the Ford F-150 was part of it but another big driver is that we're producing more up there we're getting more production out and also going forward we have all of our blast furnaces mainly Ashland running full and not having the outages.
So we were a little bit light I'll say on hot-rolled in 2014 and I would see it being a little bit heavier in '15 just because we'll have more production along with the increased production out of Dearborn.
Our final question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Regarding you're on a tailwind year-on-year curious and there's number of moving parts there in inventory hedges and things have you taken a look at what price of [hot-rolled] [ph] just as a benchmark it would take for basically that cost tailwind to be fully offset? Just trying to get a sense of what the downside is.
Did you look at that at all? No we have not.
I would comment there's really a few factors that would drive our cost structures.
One would be what happens with scrap.
That's the biggest driver because that has a very strong correlation with hot-rolled pricing so where that goes.
As we indicated we have seen the IODEX drop so we see lower iron ore pricing.
Year-over-year as you know last year we were hit pretty hard with higher energy cost because of the polar vortex so we expect lower natural gas and electricity cost.
So we see year-on-year having a substantial improvement.
Coal and coke is also down.
But the key driver is going to be what's happening on the scrap side that will be driving it and the volumes that we're getting out.
Okay.
And can you comment to the extent that [indiscernible] electrical steel-based pricing changing into '15? If the market is improved I think there's a lot of upside potential from here.
The order intake rates are a lot better than they've been and I think some of that again is driven by what's going on with housing and with non-res but we're encouraged by that marketplace we're seeking higher prices we've succeeded in certain cases and we are going to go after more.
Higher prices and greater volume those are really music to our years and that's the opportunity we think in the specialty steel side of our business.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Thank you very much.
Again as we sign off on today's call I'm going to thank all of you for your interest in and your continuing support of AK Steel.
2014 as I mentioned was a year of progress.
It was a year of improvement a year we haven't seen in some time but we look for a much better year this year in 2015 as we accelerate our progress with better production lower raw material and energy costs and a full year of Dearborn offset to some extent by anticipated lower carbon steel spot market prices.
But rest assured we are driven to succeed in 2015 and we hope that you'll join us in about three months for our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.