Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger Newport Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk Reich Senior Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Doug Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference call over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks you Sam and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our first quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release which was issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events to the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the Company's Web-site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our call today.
The first quarter of 2015 was certainly more challenging than we had anticipated.
That’s because of the extremely high level of imported carbon steel products unfairly traded imports in our opinion that hit our country shores at the expense of domestic production and shipments.
As a result at AK Steel we produced and sold less steel in the carbon steel stock market than we had intended.
And that steel which we did sell in the stock market was at decidedly lower selling prices than we had expected.
If injuries and harm are key conditions for bringing and winning trade cases let me be clear AK Steel was injured and harmed significantly in the first quarter of 2015.
Despite a very solid effort from our employees in the quarter we generated only $57 million of adjusted EBITDA down from about a $117 million in the prior quarter.
And we reported an adjusted net loss of $0.28 per diluted share of common stock compared to net income of $0.14 per diluted share excluding special charges for the fourth quarter of ’14.
The sequential quarter decline in EBITDA generation was primarily due to lower stock market shipments and selling prices as well as the impact of lower operating rates.
The fact that we’re able to perform at the level we did in the first quarter of 2015 in the face of a tsunami of imported carbon flat-rolled products is attributable for hard work our employees and the flexibility of our operations and our supply chain partners.
Once again the men and women of AK Steel succeeded in producing superior quality steel products and they provided excellent customer service as well and they did it all with great attention to our highest priority of the company safety.
Speaking of safety Coshocton Middletown Rockport Zanesville Mt.
State Carbon and AK Tube Walbridge each tied their best ever quarterly safety performance records with zero OSHA-recordable cases.
Our recently acquired facility in Dearborn Michigan which has made substantial progress in terms of safety over the past several months since we acquired it established a new first quarter record of only three OSHA recordables.
On a special note I want to congratulate our Zanesville Works employees who were recognized for outstanding safety performance by the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation during the quarter.
Zanesville has now worked over 4 300 days without incurring a single lost work day or restricted work entry.
And Rockport Works set a new OSHA recordable record of 1 333 clear days.
These are fantastic accomplishments but it doesn’t stop there.
In the first quarter our Middletown Works co-plant received Max Eward Safety Award from the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute.
The award recognizes the safest coke making facilities in America during 2014.
Middletown operated the entire year of 2014 without a single OSHA recordable injury as did two other coke facilities that are members of ACCCI.
This recognition marks the fifteenth time in the past eighteen years that an AK Steel coke plant has received the award with the Middletown coke plant being an eleven time recipient of the award just outstanding.
Exceptional safety results go hand in hand with superior quality performances.
We continue to take great pride in and our customers continue to greatly appreciate our efforts in terms of quality.
Based on the results of the Jacobson survey for the first quarter of 2015 AK Steel once again ranked number one in carbon steel among our integrated steel competitors in terms of quality service and on time delivery and we’re placed first in overall customer satisfaction as well.
Likewise on the specialty steel front according to the Jacobson survey results we ranked number one in terms of both quality performance and customer service.
These are high honors indeed given by our valid customers whose opinions matter most.
In both good times and bad times in the steel business AK Steel’s values continue to point us in the right direction keeping our people safe and serving our customers better than any other steel maker regardless of market conditions are two of our company’s highest priorities.
Speaking of customers and markets when they comment on the automotive market for both carbon and specialty the carbon is flat market and then the electrical steel market.
Automotive continues to be a good news story 2015 NAFTA light-vehicle production is projected to be 17.4 million units up about 2.5% compared to 2014.
Importantly AK Steel’s automotive shipments have grown at a rate higher than the increased observed in the overall automotive market.
As it has been in the case for the past several years we continue to gain market share in the automotive sector.
We expect this trend to continue for both carbon and for specialty products.
Consistent with our strategy of growing automotive shipments during the first quarter we shipped more tons to the automotive sector than we have in a decade since the first quarter of 2005.
In full disclosure our first quarter 2015 shipments benefited from the inclusion of automotive shipments coming from our new Dearborn plant something we obviously did not own a decade ago.
None the less our automotive shipments continue to be very solid.
In fact first quarter 2015 sales also included record auto crone [ph] shipment so sufficed to say that automotive remains a very strong market for us with significant growth potential as we continue to make headwind in qualifying products with automotive customers with the new Dearborn Works coating line [ph].
On the flip side of the coin however carbon’s spot market business conditions remain very challenging.
Imports foreign offerings that we believe are being subsidized by foreign governments and dumped in America are off to a highest level in the past quarter century.
The estimated market share for finished steel imports was an incredible 34% for the first quarter of 2015.
Since the decade began finished imports have generally held between about 22% to 24% of the market.
However by late 2013 imports began to rise with 2014 imports claiming about 28% of the market and now the imports are taking more than a third of the market.
The largest offshore suppliers or perhaps I should say vendors for the first quarter of 2015 include South Korea Turkey and China although there were many others on the list.
As imports have escalated to title wave proportions especially over the past three months we’ve seen a substantial decline in the spot market pricing within the United States.
Over the past six months benchmark capital carbon steel prices according to the CRU have declined by nearly $200 per ton in the spot market from about $651a ton in October of 2014 to roughly $454 per ton in April of 2015.
Again that’s more than a 30% decline in a six month period but true and we’re living it.
Even for companies such as AK Steel with a high level of contract business and value added sales as well as fewer tons to sell under the spot market the impact of what we believe are unfairly traded imports remains a very big deal.
What our industry needs now and really what it always needs but what it especially needs now is fair trade not free trade but fair trade.
We need to actively enforce our existing trade laws.
We’re working closely with our legislators especially senators Brown and Portman from Ohio to address this matter and to modify our trade laws going forward to make it easier and faster to bring trade cases.
The steel business in the United States is paying a severe price for the U.S.
economy being stronger than that of the rest of the world.
Arguably we’re a victim of our nations own economic recovery.
That fact coupled with the strengthening U.S.
dollar has made the United States a highly attractive destination for finished steel imports.
We understand that the domestic steel industry continues to gather and to analyze the necessary data to support the filing of cases to address on fair trade.
We support strongly support the filing of those cases and we believe that the industry is growing increasingly closer to their filing.
We hope the petitions to initiate the trade cases can be filed before the industry suffers much more damage.
Now I’m going to offer a few comments on our electrical steel business.
Our first quarter of 2015 NAFTA Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel or GOES product shipments were about 4% higher than that of the fourth quarter of 2014 as the overall housing market continues to exhibit signs of recovery.
On the GOES export front exports of GOES product increased quarter-over-quarter by double digit percentage as global market conditions improved somewhat with the Europe’s recovery still in a low gear we’ve focused our attention mostly on other parts of the world that are recovering more rapidly.
We’re also now able to compete once again in China with GOES products after enduring five years of unfair and inappropriate actions that effectively kept our electrical steel out of the Chinese market.
AK Steel’s did once again able to serve our valid customers in China with high quality GOES products.
We welcome the recent decision by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce also known as MOFCOM to terminate antidumping and anti subsidy measures on imports of GOES products from U.
S.
producers.
Speaking of China the decline in Chinese infrastructure growth and spending has had a dramatic effect on the price of commodities especially iron ore.
The IODEX index iron ore has fallen by nearly 40% in the past six months and fins itself nearest lowest point in a decade.
For reference sake the IODEX averaged just over $80 in October of 2014 and the current average month-to-date for April 2015 is $50.
Overall a falling IODEX and declining iron ore prices are very good things for AK Steel that’s because unlike our competitors who are more vertically integrated than AK Steel we buy about 70% of our iron ore requirements on the open market.
And it’s a very good time arguably the best time in the past decade to be short in terms of iron ore from a vertical integration stand point.
Although all of our pellet supply agreements have an IODEX component we emphasize that it is not a one-to-one relationship in all cases.
Some of our agreements contain pricing adjustments based on other indices as well as the IODEX component.
Accordingly we do not enjoy a dollar- for-dollar benefit as the IODEX declines.
In the case of our pellet off-take arrangement with Magnetation LLC the pellet pricing is directly tied to the IODEX index and that has made life extremely difficult for Magnetation LLC in this current iron ore pricing environment.
On March 31of this year we fully impaired the value of our investment in Magnetation LLC.
Although we’re disappointed that we needed to do so the impairment was driven by several factors which included the significant market decline in global iron-ore pellet pricing during the first quarter of 2015 to multi-year lows; a reduced long-term forecast for iron ore prices; the negative cash flow effects on Magnetation LLC’s results; and Magnetation LLC’s balance sheet challenges including its high debt load and inability to raise additional capital.
Magnetation LLC’s business and operations face significant challenges in this very difficult environment as they continue to ramp up their pellet plan.
We expect to continue to receive pellets from Magnetation LLC in the short term.
As for the longer term it’s certainly possible that the challenges faced by Magnetation LLC could let me emphasize could result in a temporary or permanent disruption in their supply of iron ore pellets to the Company.
However we currently purchase pellets from multiple third-party suppliers and we believe if need be that we could replace the Magnetation LLC pellets with supply from existing or new third-party suppliers.
We also could purchase more slabs if necessary to make up for any potential deficiency in the supply or iron ore pellets.
To be clear in either instance we do not anticipate any reduction in AK Steel’s production levels nor in our ability to serve the needs of our valued customers.
There could however be an impact on our costs if we have to replace the Mag LLC pellets either with pellets from a third party or with purchasing slabs.
Let me conclude my prepared remarks ladies and gentlemen by providing brief comments on two of our most recent investments our acquisition of Dearborn Works last Fall and our announcement this Spring of a new research and innovation center in Middletown.
First on Dearborn we continue to make solid progress in integrating Dearborn Works into AK Steel.
Really delighted with the progress that we’ve made from a safety quality and a productivity standpoint.
The safety and quality gains to date at Dearborn have been exceptional and when market conditions support running the facility at higher rate the productivity gains at Dearborn have been equally remarkable.
That said weaker than anticipated market conditions that I’ve discussed earlier have caused us to reduce production at Dearborn Works to match demand.
We’re on pace to meet all of our cost based synergy targets that are unrelated to production levels.
For those synergies that are a function of increased production obviously we’re short of that goal or those numbers for now.
We continue to view the Dearborn Works acquisition very favorably.
Dearborn represents and outstanding growth platform for AK Steel in terms of our sales our production and our profit growth.
It really also represents a great way to meet the increasing needs of our automotive and other customers to enhance our operating flexibility and to lower our costs.
Meeting the evolving needs of our customers is exactly why we announced a new research and innovation center on February 23 underscoring our strong commitment to the future of steel making in America.
We’ll be investing about $36 million financed with a long term lease to mitigate the cash impact to construct a new research and innovation center located in Middletown Ohio the home of our largest plant and our current research facility.
This new research and innovation center will be world-class in nature and provide a new home for our talented researchers engineers and scientists to develop innovative products such as true third generation advanced high strength steels to help automotive customers design lighter more fuel efficient vehicles that maintain superior strength and safety performance; high efficiency electrical steels that will help our nation’s energy grid become more energy efficient; a new stainless steel that offers superior corrosion resistance for a wide variety of applications.
So I hope you get the sense that our new research innovation center will be very customer focused.
Groundbreaking is expected to take place later this quarter.
We’re targeting completion of the facility for the fourth quarter of 2016.
AK Steel’s predecessor company Armco had been known for product and process innovation for decades.
Among other things we developed a continuous rolling mill process and we developed the first electrical steels produced anywhere in the world.
Going forward we look to build on this great tradition and we’ll now have the facility to do just that.
Before turning the call over to Roger to cover our quarterly financial results after which Roger Kirk Reich and I will take your questions I’d like to take just a moment to thank Dave Horn for his extraordinary service.
To AK Steel Dave has capably served as my right hand man if you will for more than a decade he has tackled every assignment with great resolve and delivered terrific results.
Dave is a brilliant lawyer and a business man he’s a winner.
But at Dave’s election he’s retiring for the Company and his last day of service at AK Steel will be May 31 and since this is his last conference call I know he’ll miss those as well.
But on behalf of the Board of Directors the senior Management team and really all of us at AK Steel Dave we want to thank you for a job well done for our Company and for our shareholders.
And thanks to all of you ladies and gentlemen for your attention.
With that let me turn it over to our Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported an adjusted net loss of $50 million or $0.28 per diluted share for the first quarter 2015 which was in line with our guidance of a loss of $0.23 to $0.28 per diluted share.
Adjusted net loss excludes a onetime non-cash charge in the first quarter of $256million or $1.44 per share relates to the whole impairment of our 49.9% equity interest in Magnetation LLC.
The impairment was driven by the significant decline in the IODEX that had occurred since early 2014 and accelerated in the first quarter of 2015.
Magnetation’s iron ore pellets are priced off the IODEX and therefore a lower IODEX results in lower sales for Magnetation.
As a result Magnetation retained a financial advisor in March 2015 to assist them in evaluating alternatives to improve liquidity.
I would like to reiterate that the Magnetation impairment is a non-cash charge.
Magnetation’s outstanding indebtedness is non-recourse to AK Steel.
We’re not required to make any additional capital contributions for future investments in Magnetation and we have not guaranteed any obligations of Magnetation LLC.
Turning back to our results for the quarter in response to poor carbon steel market condition during the first quarter we accelerated a planned outage at our Middletown Works steel shop from the second quarter to the first quarter.
Including that outage we incurred $14 million of costs associated with planned major maintenance outages in the first quarter of 2015.
This compares to planned outage costs of $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 which included $31 million to reline the hearth of the Ashland blast furnace.
Our shipments of 1 750 500 tons for the first quarter of 2015 represented a decrease of 260 000 tons or about a 13% reduction compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 which was in line with our guidance.
The lower level of overall shipments in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter was chiefly the result of lower carbon spot market shipments primarily to the service center market.
This decrease is a result of excess fuel supply in the United States which has resulted from the substantial increase in imports.
However as Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains good in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remained strong in the first quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the first quarter was $999 per ton which was in line with our guidance.
Despite encountering much lower carbon steel spot market prices in the first quarter our average selling price increased slightly compared to the fourth quarter.
This was due mostly to a richer product mix consisting of a higher percentage of value added shipments in relation to total shipments for the quarter.
Revenues for the first quarter totaled $1.75 billion.
This was roughly $250 million or 12% lower than our fourth quarter sales and once again was mostly due to the combination of reduced carbon steel spot market shipments and pricing.
While the costs particularly for carbon scrap and iron ore pellets decreased in the first quarter but they did not decrease as quickly as spot market prices deteriorated during that same period.
In the first quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of $17.1 million which was $11.8 million higher than our LIFO credit of $5.3 million for the fourth quarter again primarily driven by lower raw material costs.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the Magnetation impairment charge and a non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was $57.5 million or $33 per ton.
This compares to a negative EBITDA of $2.8 million for the first quarter of 2014 and EBITDA of $117 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Thus we have made substantial improvements year-over-year but the foreign steel imports has definitely harmed us on a sequential quarter basis.
Now turning to the balance sheet and the cash flow statements for the first quarter of 2015 our capital investments totaled approximately $28 million compared to about $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Typically we are users of cash flow working capital in the first half of the year and the first quarter of 2015 was typical in that regard as working capital was a use of cash of approximately $44 million during the quarter.
And we ended the first quarter of 2015 with total liquidity of $807 million.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including substantially lower pension funding requirements.
I would like to provide you an update on our outlook for pension funding requirements are even lower than our farthest guidance.
Based upon the analysis of our independent actuary our pension funding requirements for 2015 have dropped from $35 million to $25 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining amount will be contributed in the third quarter of this year.
More importantly based upon our current actuarial assumptions and pension funding regulations our independent actuary currently estimates that we will have no pension funding requirement in either 2016 or 2017.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our Dearborn cost based synergies.
We’ve been very pleased with our progress on synergies and the savings from items such as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and they’re all on track.
We achieved nearly $10 million of synergies in the first quarter of 2015.
This would have been higher had we not had to reduce our operating levels as a result of the surge of steel imports.
Despite the market challenges we continue to make great progress in realizing the benefits of our Dearborn acquisition.
Thus we are at a solid run rate to kick of f 2015 and we’ll be continuing to identify additional opportunities.
We also expect to eventually obtain the volume related cost synergies when the market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations going forward.
Turning to our outlook for the second quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide financial guidance in June.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would now be happy to take your questions.
We will now begin with the question and answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Timna Tanners of Bank of America please go ahead with your question Hey Good morning guys.
I was kind of surprised that there was so much attention at the beginning of the call to imports and all the trade case commentary when you have a price hike announced today in the industry and imports are falling substantially.
So I was wondering if there's something I'm missing about what drives your earnings because it seems like it tends to be more about the value add.
And in light of that I actually wanted to ask a little bit more on secondarily about stainless.
You didn't talk about stainless much and electrical.
With the trade cases or the trade action done in Europe to block imports of electrical and stainless will that result in more tons coming to the US on the specialty side? I would just emphasize that our primary market is automotive which includes carbon and also the ferritic stainless and electrical steel are improving.
We’re not big players in OCTG although one could argue that our stock is being pummeled relative to others who are big in that space.
Our operations are running well; raw materials and energy prices near decade lows; we’ve got our own cost reduction programs; Dearborn Works.
A full year of that and the synergies our cash needs are low - on and on but the tail that’s wagged the dog here and the point that we were trying to make and the significant effect it’s had on pricing is really significant to us.
Even though it’s not a huge part of our business it’s caused us to go from making money to losing money and continues to be a problem for us.
We’ve actually grown our participation in the spot market to a greater extent with Dearborn until we moved a lot of that product into the higher value added and then to contract space.
So I think it’s important to sort of recognize it for what it is and the terms that we’ve used the tidal wave the tsunami the flood of imports are like nothing we’ve seen in recent memory and it has hit us hard over a period of a quarter or two.
I guess it’s for those who wish to forecast such things as to the direction of imports and the direction of pricing to come.
We had not yet caught up with our competitor issuing a price increase announcement.
Obviously we look at our own order book our own order intake rates our own product mix and evaluate for ourselves the appropriate timing of price increases which we’re doing.
I think it was just important for us to put into context what it was that drove the results and our standing all those other good things and the excitement that we have about that aspect of the business.
In particular in stainless and electrical that’s really good business for us.
We are growing in those spaces.
As a reminder to those of you who may not follow that closely AK Steel is not just a carbon player.
We’re also a player in the specialty arena which for us consists of both stainless and electrical steels and then within stainless of course there is the 400 series the auto chrome business which we’re a big player in.
It’s a very good business it’s growing consistent with what’s happening in automotive.
And then there is the - another segment would be lot of the products we make [indiscernible] and that’s outstanding business.
Then there’s the commodity space which is a little bit of a fly wheel for us and not a big part of our business but overall that’s doing quite well notwithstanding some issues we’ve had in terms of a trade case that went the other way against us.
And then in electrical which is really we aren’t going with the - That market has improved.
We’ve seen a lot of good things going on there as it relates primarily to the housing market to a lesser extent to non-residential construction as that market is definitely showing signs of improvement.
So all those things I think are moving in the right direction and we’re excited about that.
And overall demand is certainly strong but it’s that displacement of those other tons that has caused us to go from shipping.
Two million tons in the fourth quarter to a 1.75 million here in the first quarter and the effect that has on a heavy fixed cost business like ours on our operations.
We don’t run as well but certainly when we have to throttle back blast furnaces and set down lot of iron ore and other things.
So that’s why we made such a big deal of it till now.
Okay I get it.
So specifically on the European trade actions do you expect that will divert tons from Asia or elsewhere to the US on stainless and electrical? And then on ATI's conference call they mentioned the possibility of a stainless trade action.
Can you comment on those? There’s a lot of trade activity going on obviously.
I think the most recent is we just heard today there is a European Union action on electrical steel.
Our view of that is we’ve actually been shifting a fair amount of international production to places other than Europe.
But I think what remains to be seen is really the product that our customers want.
Is it in fact in electrical steel form? Is it in core form? There may be many other opportunities to continue to serve that market but we’ve certainly seen strengthening.
We’ve seen prices going up internationally and outside of Europe per se for the most part but that’s encouraging news to us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Jim.
Hello Mike Look for a couple of questions.
First just on timing timing lags on how you realize pricing in your income statement and results.
Could you go through that because I know you obviously have a bigger portion in - of your business on fixed prices and contracts and these contracts eventually roll over? Can you talk through that? Because you may have been protected a bit on the say first quarter results and even some on the second quarter results but as those contracts come up for renewal you are faced with lower prices I assume then you kind of registered on them in the first quarter results.
Is that a fair statement? And could you work us through how those timing lags go? There are moving pieces and parts to this you know Mike in all aspects of our business.
I think you’re referencing specifically our contract sales.
I’d ask Roger to comment when I finish my thoughts on that subject maybe just on the lagging effect of some of the raw material prices as well especially given the Vale pricing model and the four moth lag there which can have a very very favorable effect to our Company as we look out to the remaining quarters of the year.
Again as a reminder and refresher for everybody roughly half of our business these days is in the automotive space.
That’s virtually all contract business.
Those contracts expire at various times throughout the year that’s intentional on our part and our customers’ part.
Some have just expired and been renewed some have expired and not been renewed others will come up as the year goes on.
I think clearly there is attention paid if you were in those procurement roles and if I was tuned to what’s going on in the stock market - but we have to be clear here Mike it’s a bit of apples and oranges right.
The product is coming in by and large as a commodity type product.
It’s certainly not the kind of product that goes into make Cadillacs and Camrys and other important products that we serve and our automotive customers know that.
They really value what it is that we provide to them in terms of quality whether it’s exposed or un-exposed delivery just in time great customer service 24/7 around the clock and it’s really the relationship overall that we’ve built.
We work together in all of these things and obviously we’re not looking to either sacrifice on price or - we need to get a reasonable return on our product so we continue to invest and be there for the long term and provide them with the advanced high strength steels and the other products that they need to meet requirements and the needs of the customers that they have.
So undoubtedly it’s a discussion point it always makes for interesting discussions but it really is a different segment of the market place.
Roger do you want to comment generally about the raw material space? Sure.
In regards to the surcharge side we have some contracts that have different surcharges whether it’s for energy cost for iron ore for scrap.
We have reduced some of that exposure over time as instrument that come out there where we can hedge some of the commodities.
Our focus has been our risk management our exposure to the raw materials.
So we’ve been reducing that and as you’re aware roughly 3/4 of our business is contract business but about 1/4 of that is still subject to pricing fluctuations which will be driven by what's happening with raw materials which - it could be based on what's happening with spot market pricing or it could be based on underlying raw materials.
Our surcharge that we have we try to align those as best we can whether it's carbon or stainless or electrical products with the timing of when we consume the raw materials.
Nickeloid is not quite that way it's a little bit more current amount that you use for the surcharge so you can have a little bit of timing difference there.
But I always look at it - on the surcharges over time they should kind of equalize in a falling market be a little bit behind it from a cost basis because you have higher cost raw materials coming through and in a rising commodities market you usually have lower costs in inventory.
So just a follow-up.
Did I hear you say you won't be affected in most of your businesses in automotive on the price declines in the spot market? Well it's a different business Mike.
It's really the message I'm trying to convey it's really different business and I think as you've seen the auto business is incredibly robust.
We're on track here for the best April sales in a decade.
Analysts continue to say probably those at JPMorgan as well looking north of 17 million units this year.
It's a fantastic market to be in right now but it's a very very tough market to serve and to serve well.
We challenge ourselves to do that and we expect to get paid for it.
The outcome of those contracts I wouldn't try and really forecast right now except to say that there's any number of factors that influence those discussions; supply demand quality; our relationship; raw material and energy costs and so forth.
But this is where we excel as a supplier.
We have and we'll continue to do so and we certainly don't think our number one ranking by those customers for quality delivery and service hurts in any way.
Second question on the raw materials side.
When you're talking about the impairment on Magnetation you were trying to integrate backwards into iron ore and now with the price going down so much as you said Magnetation may not operate in the future and you may not be getting any material from Magnetation but instead you would get from the other sources.
Now at the low price of iron ore not only Magnetation may not be producing but Essar may not be producing people had said US steel was going to bring on more capacity.
They're not going to do that.
So basically the only source in the US is Cliff's or bring it from the outside the St.
Lawrence sea way which is about a $30 freight charge to get it without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies.
APRIL 28 2015 / 3:00PM AKS - Q1 2015 AK Steel Holding Corp Earnings Call through the St.
Lawrence on a $50 product.
Wouldn't that whole process if Magnetation stops supplying you wouldn't you be forced to quite a bit higher iron ore pricing in your cost structure? First of all we're certainly hopeful that Magnetation continues to be a supplier to AK Steel.
We work long and hard with them in designing sort of the perfect pellet or nearly so for our blast furnaces and we want them to succeed but clearly it's been a very very different environment.
I think the comments I was trying to emphasize is that we have flexibility; we've certainly - while we're not reaching out to others others have made numerous efforts to contact made a contact to our Company about availability of supply - again whether that's in the pellet space or in the slab space - we have nothing further really to say on that subject other than we're comfortable if not confident that supply exists that would not impact our ability to produce and to serve our customers going forward.
We're very mindful of all of the things that you say though Mike with respect to where those sources might come from and what those costs might be.
We also have benefitted very very significantly from our investment in [indiscernible].
The fact that it exists would not have occurred that is Magnetation LLC without our investment.
Now that we have made the gains that we've made elsewhere with other agreements and so forth without them and again it's our hope that we're able to find our way through this and continue to be a very very important supplier to AK Steel long term.
Thank you and our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Just sort of some help modeling electrical steel with the timing something you can maybe just walk us through.
How much electrical steel is currently going into EU? With the China market now reopening how quickly could you actually maybe move some of those tons from Europe or available capacity that you have here in the US and put that into China? Let me give you the best sense that I can.
If you back five years ago or that sort of a time frame roughly half of our electrical steel business was domestic and about half was foreign.
That has obviously shifted as a number of things have occurred.
One there's Chinese trade case that I referenced earlier whacked us pretty well; greater supply came on whether it was from China or elsewhere in the world and all of that caused a pretty significant shift to the point where roughly 75% or thereabouts of our orders were coming from NAFTA companies and customers and about 25% overseas.
Some portion of that 25% then perhaps about 50% maybe a little less than that would have been Europe focused but that also has been declining as Europe has been in the doldrums and as we've looked at opportunities that yield more benefits.
So it's really not a huge concern of ours frankly but we have fairly full order book through the second quarter and are currently involved in opening the book for the third quarter and our business on the international side is really shifting outside of Europe to say India the Middle East Turkey and as you said in China.
Having been zoned out of there we were delighted to get the recent ruling and to get some calls from Chinese customers and we've already taken orders.
I wouldn't want to put an order of magnitude as to how that might grow and how fast it would grow but they're thrilled to have us back and we're thrilled to serve their needs.
Okay thanks for that.
And then maybe just another kind of follow-up on Magnetation.
How committed would you say you are to keeping that production running and I guess how amenable are you to maybe switching to some sort of a cost-plus arrangement with them? Is that the best option in your mind? Well I guess we're looking at a lot of options and having a fair amount of discussion about how to make things work.
At the end of the day probably what makes sense for them and perhaps for us would be some sort of ceiling and forward mechanism I don't know.
But again we'll leave that to those that are in those discussions.
I think that it would be good if we could reach agreement but the terms and the conditions of those agreements the devil's in the details and that as to play out.
Okay.
We'll stay tuned.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
The first question I have is sorry again on Magnetation.
It seems as though even if Magnetation had signed a contract with you guys it was based on the IODEX.
Given how low the IODEX has gone and given what the cost of production is in North America it would probably be unlikely that another producer would sign a contract that was similar.
So given that I would expect you wasn't get as good of contract terms from someone else would AK consider buying the Magnetation assets out of bankruptcy and maybe continuing to operate them that way if you couldn't reach an agreement with the existing Magnetation team about some floor to ceiling contract or something of that nature? Our view all along was that Magnetation once it reached full production and achieved all of its quality initiatives would be a very low cost producer.
I think it's still our view that that will be the case.
The pricing mechanism as I referenced earlier in my prepared remarks really tied it entirely to the IODEX.
As we all now know that's a very difficult thing for them.
It's a painful thing to impair assets.
I think we've heard repeatedly whether it's from debt holders or from stockholders concerns about overhang in cash that we might put into this.
I think clearly the message that we gave today is that we're not doing that and that we do not have an intention of buying the asset.
We've looked at that and that doesn't really make sense for us.
We still think it fits or could fit as part of our longer term strategy for raw materials and our self sufficiency and knowing that supply and all the great quality and the productivity is going to give us but again we'll work through those things as best we can with the other side.
Okay thanks and then my second question is on costs going forward and I know you guys will give guidance later on but I was pretty surprised.
In the first quarter your pricing was great because of your contract and it held up really well in a weak market but EBITDA was still I think lower than what people had initially expected just because of where costs went.
And I noted that there's some opacity around the cost side of things for you guys because you don't break down the line items.
But how can we expect the cost line to trend in 2Q? If there's not as much of a benefit maybe from contract pricing can we expect some relief on the cost side? I mean does that all to have do with shipments or can we expect additional cost relief above and beyond the outage cost of $14 million not being there? Because it seems raw materials are already down.
So are there any other big cost moves that we can expect in 2Q that might give the Company some relief if pricing takes a little bit longer to recover? Let me just say a couple of things about the first quarter.
Again it was weighed down a bit by a couple of things including the Mag.
losses which I think totaled about $16 million for our Company.
We'll no longer have to take those on our books since we've written the asset down to zero you can't go below zero.
To the extent that those losses continue that's for someone else's account not ours.
We also had significant market adjustments associated with the positions we took in iron ore forwards as well as natural gas.
One again can say whether or not that will change but certainly more recently with the IODEX coming back a bit $10 or so you can see a different result there.
Maintenance outages and other costs again those will be a variable.
I think probably saying more than that at this point Justine is beginning to give probably selective guidance and I'd be counseled by our attorneys in the room here not to do that.
We'll give it in June as we said before and Roger you want to –? Yes I just want to add a little more color to it.
If you look at our raw materials a couple of different things one on coal for example the cost went down a little bit for that but we still had inventory coming into the year so you still had a little bit higher cost inventory.
Same with all your other inventories the iron ore that's bought with along with that is bought on the Vale model so that's a four month lag.
So when you look at it at what the IODEX was in the first quarter under the Vale model would have been $79 a ton and that will continue to drop throughout at least for the next couple of quarters.
As Jim mentioned the IODEX dropped into the forties here last week it's back up into the upper fifties this week but that's been a decline.
That's a little bit of benefit there along with lower energy costs that we have seen.
So part of it is what you had in inventory when you entered the year.
You don't instantly get that benefit.
Great thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Nathan Littlewood of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning thanks for the opportunity and apologies in advance this is very strange but another Magnetation one.
Can you tell us what iron ore price you used to do the impairment testing on that asset? And how does that compare to the IODEX that would be required in order to see that asset cash flow break even on an all-in basis and if we assume that their longer-term concentrate target which I believe is about $40 a ton were to be met? No comment I wouldn't give specifics of what all we went through but basically when you're looking at it you're doing it as of - it's a balance sheet day test so it's as of March 31.
As you're well aware Nathan the IODEX had dropped quite a bit especially in the month of March especially the forward curve looking out into the future it dropped quite a bit.
That's really some of the key drivers but also looking at Magnetation as they announced that they had hired an advisor to work on increasing their position.
And ultimately we have to look at the value that we have on our books and what's our ability to recover that investment once you take into account their debt load and everything that they have along with the pressures they were facing because of this significant decline in the IODEX.
Okay got it.
So if some sort of combination of like a rolling historical commodity price and perhaps a forward curve commodity price is how you would test impairment there is it fair to assume that you would use a similar process for testing carrying value of some of the steel making assets? And specifically if we use that method on steel pricing and applied to the Dearborn what might the carrying value of Dearborn look like in the latter part of this year? Well there's a question we haven't had for a while Roger.
Well I think if you look at it long term with the steel side you're looking both at pricing and raw materials.
Our raw material costs have come down substantially.
Scrap has come down iron ore has come down coal has come down scrap has come down quite a bit actually this year as you're well aware along with iron ore.
Pricing has trended with it of course.
Imports are putting some pressure on that so it's looking at all those when you're looking at steel assets still I'd remind you it's not just - we're looking at it in total we don't look at each plant separately.
We didn't buy Dearborn to be a standalone entity.
Dearborn is an addition to our capabilities to help us serve the iron markets especially on the automotive side and those that require high strength steels etc.
So it's actually a growth platform for us.
That's how we feel and positioned Dearborn.
So we're not looking that as a standalone we look at our steel assets in total.
And also in steel assets we do stainless electrical and carbon so we have a variety of products and we have opportunities to move that mix around depending on the market conditions.
I think we still feel very good I know I do and I believe our Board does that we got a fantastic deal at some $690 million which is probably about $0.30 on the dollar of what was invested; facility to get a brand new automotive grade coating line; a recently relined blast furnace.
It's a terrific facility nearly the size of our Middletown Works; gives us enormous flexibility; could not be duplicated in my view for $4 billion to $5 billion.
So I think we're good with the carrying value and good with the outlook.
Our next question comes from Luke Folta of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Jim.
First question again on Magnetation I just wanted to clarify something a statement that you made.
Are you saying that you won't under any circumstance contribute any cash to the venture or is there a scenario where you would contribute something but end up with a really nice long-term contract from them with favorable terms? Is that a scenario that could play out? I suppose there are any number of scenario’s that could play out but what I do not want to do is inject uncertainty or create another cloud that are over hanging or it’s clearly not our intention to more money into Magnetation.
We’ve invested sufficiently and we are where we are.
The outcome of any agreement going forward for pellet supply could take any number of forms but we have zero desire to provide securities or cash.
It would be an arm slang [ph] transaction negotiated to the satisfaction of our company and with our board’s concurrence and I presume the same would apply to Magnetation LLC.
Okay.
And then just on the way some of these moving parts work in terms of pricing and raw material costs trying to figure out a way to simplify.
If prices were to hypothetically just stay flat from here going forward can you give us a sense at what point throughout the course of the year you would actually - that would be reflected in both your selling price and your iron ore consumed cost? Yeah in general it’s a - if you look at the timing of raw materials coming through it’s probably a three to four month time frame kind of delay if you look at the iron ore coming through.
Because when you’re buying debt when you’re buying iron ore what I bought in the first quarter that pricing is the same under the valid model for January February and March.
So bringing iron ore in in March and that would start by hitting finished product in May.
There’s less tons coming in so you could have a couple work delay there so anywhere from three to four months depending on the product.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
With U.S.
steel announcing at least a temporary closure of Granite City that's a pretty nearby mill to you.
Presumably - I don't think they've closed it yet but there's going to be some customers looking for steel supplies.
Have you gotten much of that yet? We’re aware of the Granite City situation or not sure it’s entirely closed but that’s a pretty big move.
Our sense is that relates to the market based served in oil country tubular goods for the most part but again we only know what we read.
I think it’s fair to say that we get increase from a number of sources including some of those customers.
We’ve done our own idling if not a curtailing throughout AK Steel and we’ll continue to do that as we look at our own individual situation in balance supply and demand and I suppose others could say some of our customers are going to them.
In any event it’s very competitive business out there and we want to fill the voids and the spaces where we do that best.
The other facility of interest out of Granite City is a SunCoke plant which obviously will continue to operate but if they're not going to be making any pig iron they're going to have extra coke.
Do you have any need for that coke? No we’re in good shape.
We’re in good shape really on all of our raw materials as we are buying or had bought in the first part of the year a little bit higher of pace than we have made.
So we’re in good shape.
We have regular conversation with SunCoke and others and I’m sure they may try and sell us a bit but we’re not interested.
Operator Thank you and our next question comes from Matt Murphy of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Sorry if I missed it.
Did you say anything about CapEx on the year? You talked $150 million at the start of the year.
That still the plan? Yeah Matt that’s still the plan roughly $150 million of total CapEx.
We’ve said that about 20% of that would be growth capital.
We also this year are buying some spares partly related to Dearborn where we’ve identified a couple places where we think is the right risk management program to make sure a couple of spares are there.
But $150 million is currently our target and as you know we managed that very prudently depending on how market conditions go and that capital budget as you’ve seen historically is flexible.
Sure.
And when you talk growth capital can you give any examples of project you're looking at? Yeah I would comment we’re looking at projects that lower costs improved yields or give us an opportunity to position us for whether it’s moving into different grades of steel whether it’s carbon stainless or electrical.
So it’s a variety of things that once with the return on them but sometimes they’re just small projects.
And if there is - if we see any projects as we’ve talked about any high strength steel projects as we look going forward we would you inform you on those too.
Thank you and our question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Hi Jim.
I've got a couple questions here.
So you've had a couple quarters in a row where a richer mix helped to offset a good portion of the pricing declines and in fact your average selling price was up 1% sequentially.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on this.
You talked about obviously bringing in stainless and electrical steel a little bit but do you expect this to continue particularly when it looks like a lot of the downward move really picked up pace and given the lags that at least the way we try to model your Company what would you say about that as we think about this looking forward? I’ll comment on the selling price side you’re correct as you saw the stock market pricing decline throughout the quarter.
So it was at its peak at the beginning of the quarter and hit a 12 point at the end of the quarter.
So that trend - you’re right on point.
That did have a benefit I’ll say to the quarter and we started out stronger and ended up weaker.
Whereas if you go into the second quarter here now the question is on is there any rebound on what happens on pricing but with that also the raw material side came down.
You’ve seen iron ore come down you saw scrap come down energy costs have remained relatively low.
So selling price is a factor but so is the cost side and also using up some of the higher cost raw materials getting those to our system is beneficial also.
But on the pricing side as Jim mentioned of what’s going on in stainless electrical come of that is just driven on especially stainless side [ph] is what happened with nickel and chrome so it’s really surcharge basis.
Do you guys think that you can mitigate given these - the favorable shifts occurring on the cost side of the ledger do you think you can mitigate a lot of that slippage in selling prices quarter on quarter? I think we’ll be giving guidance if we were to go too far down that path except to say that we are all in every day with all of our being to try and lower costs.
We’re benefiting as Roger said from the raw materials and energy space.
It’s really a question of how far down if we come how quickly does it come back and what percentage of our sales really are in that lower end of the market place for us.
So there is too many pieces and parts there Tony to really or playing [ph] with a degree of specificity except to say that we’re trying to make very wise decisions about what we make what we sell looking carefully at what we project our costs are going to be.
Fair enough.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of maybe operating rates at Dearborn maybe utilization during the quarter anything you can give us a sense there.
And I was intrigued by the announcement by Ford the decision to throttle back F-150 production.
I just was wondering what your read is on that.
On the utilization rates we’ve totaled back several percent from fall obviously quarter-on-quarter our shipments were down about 12% fourth quarter to first quarter.
And we have adjusted our blast furnace rates accordingly.
[indiscernible] an outage that we had scheduled for the second quarter in Middletown into the first quarter try to make prudent use of that time but really that’s how we’ve made our adjustment to utilization.
Just on the F-150 I guess since you’ve raised the question.
Obviously it’s been a success to date.
We love our friends at Ford we love providing them with a lot of steel we want really for all of our customers to succeed.
We want them to do it with steel.
Really don’t have any particular comment about them straddling back at all.
I think we’re encouraged in general in the market place by those which is a vast majority who are keeping it steel and our focus is the company is on continuing provide them with the products that allow them to keep it steel namely the advanced high strength steels and we have been for some long period of time here really and great discussions with all of our automotive customers about exactly what do they need and what do they want us to do and we are poised to proceed in that regard and hopefully will in the very near future have some things to announce that will position us very very well for the long term in serving [indiscernible] of our automotive customers.
Thank you and our final question comes from David Gagliano of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Excellent.
Thank you for squeezing my question in.
I just have two questions.
One is a clarification question and the second one is just related to some previous commentary.
My clarification question I heard the answer earlier regarding the lag on the cost side which is pretty clear.
But I didn't quite get the answer on the lag on the pricing side.
Is there a way to give us a framework on when we should see if prices stay flat the full effect of the decline in pricing? That's my first question.
And then my second unrelated question previous commentary I believe was aiming to be free cash flow positive for the year for 2015.
Is that still the target? Those are my two questions.
Thanks.
You want to take the first and I’ll take the second.
Sure on the pricing side on the light the spot market that’s usually pretty quick as the market goes down what’s happening [ph] is as Jim said whether or not we choose to sell into that market or not depending what our cost structure is and what the pricing structure is and that’s how we look at it as if whether it makes sense for AK Steel or not.
In regards to any other light this was talked early on contract pricing when you’re in a downward market you get more pressure on contract pricing than when you’re in a raising market.
Again we focused on the value add that we provide to the customers you did not see usually a direct - you see a correlation but not a dollar or anything in regards to contract pricing versus spot pricing.
So time will tell as Jim said what happens.
With contract pricing overtime we have contracts that expire throughout the year.
So with about 75% of our business being contract a force of that contract business I’ll remind everyone is more tied to I’ll call it spot market or what happens in the market or in the [indiscernible] arena.
And then the balance really is going to be driven on negotiations and what the conditions are but again we focus on the value we provide to our customers.
And we want to make sure we’re getting a fair value for the product we provide in quality and service delivery and the technical support in everything that we do for our customers.
Our ultimate goal as a management team and a board is to be great generators of cash and very prudent deployer’s of that cash that’s generated.
We certainly look to generate more cash this year than we have in a long long time presumably since 2008 the start of the [indiscernible] session.
One of the key things in terms of the deployment of that cash is that this year we have about $300 million in lower cash needs highlighted by the pension contributions that Roger spoke that were nearly $200 million and are down to about $25 million this year and the $100 million we put into Magnetation that obviously we do not have to do anything along those lines this year.
That’s huge for a company like ours; I think it’s largely been if not overlooked underplayed.
So I just emphasize that in terms of the degree to which we’re free cash flow and what we would do with all of that obviously much depends on what happens in the balance of the year.
The tons that go out the door and at what price they go out the door so I sort of stop sort of that except to say that it’s always our goal and especially this year to be free cash flow positive to give ourselves tremendous optionality in terms of what to do with that cash and that we certainly continue to expect 2015 to be a much better year than 2014.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now ask Mr.
Wainscott for his closing comments.
Very briefly everyone on behalf of all of us at the company thank you to each of you for joining us on today’s call and for your continuing interest in the company.
And we want to wish you great day a better tomorrow and a quarter of [indiscernible] in your business as well ours.
Good day everybody thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect at this time.