Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Executive Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our second quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's website at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's conference call.
As I assess the just completed quarter two things in particular come to mind.
First dealing with what we believe are unfairly traded imports remains an incredible challenge and second despite our near-term challenges we're laying the foundation for a brighter future for AK Steel.
But that is its well it's a pretty good environment for domestic steel producers except for the imports that is.
That's because auto sales are at a near record clip housing starts while still somewhat below historically at high levels.
Well they're at a seven-year high.
Electrical steel sales and pricing are improving especially on the international front.
Our operations are running very well and steel making input costs are at decade low levels but the operative phrase is except for the imports.
The second quarter proved to be a difficult one for us due to the continued on-slot of dumped imports and the impact they had in reducing our carbon steel spot market selling prices and shipment volumes.
But despite these significant near-term challenges I'm really quite excited about our future because of the investments we've made in the areas of product and process innovation as well as our cost reduction efforts and our strategic reassessment process.
Imports that have been flooding our shores drove selling prices down by more than $200 a ton compared to prices just 9 months to 12 months ago even with the benefit of lower raw material prices and cost cutting measures this unfair erosion of our market is very difficult to overcome especially in the short run.
As most of you know a trade case covering corrosion-resistant also known as CORE that is steel had previously been filed with the International Trade Commission.
The ITC unanimously determined that core produced in China India Italy South Korea and Taiwan caused material injury to the domestic steel industry.
That's encouraging news and it's resulted in higher prices for coated steel products.
In addition I'm pleased to report that AT Steel and other domestic steel producers filed a second carbon steel trade case earlier today covering cold-rolled products.
The case which covers a broad swath of foreign producers from eight different countries asserts that imports of cold-rolled steel from these countries are causing material injury to AK Steel and to the domestic steel industry.
We look forward to this case moving through the process over the coming months towards the imposition of duties that help ensure that free trade is indeed fair trade.
And for further details on the cold-rolled trade case I'd encourage you to review the press release on this subject that we issued about a half an hour or so ago.
As for a third carbon steel trade case covering hot-rolled products let we just say stay tuned.
As we speak data has been gathered and is being assessed.
You can expect more to follow on this subject as well as on the possibility of stainless steel trade cases.
On the legislative front we are also encouraged by recent legislation that was signed into law by President Obama in June to levels of playing fields.
Thanks to the hard work of Ohio Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman as well as many others it will now be easier to prove injury in future cases and to move those cases more quickly to resolution.
Other countries continue to look out for themselves for their manufacturing basis and for their people.
In my opinion it's really about time that the United States of America looks out for its own said another way let's make things in America and let's buy American let's keep our manufacturing plants alive and let's employ American workers the most productive workforce in the world I might add to make goods in the U.S.
that are consumed both at home and around the world.
Speaking of American made it was a very strong quarter for us in terms of automotive shipments in fact it was just shy of a record automotive shipment quarter for AK Steel.
In terms of light vehicle sales frankly it's about as good as it's ever been.
Our own automotive shipments were up nearly 3% in the second quarter as compared to first quarter of 2015 and the strength of the automotive market is unquestionable.
We're doing everything we can to make sure that steel that steel remains the material of choice for automotive applications.
The product innovations that we currently have underdevelopment at AK Steel will help ensure that the product steel remains the material of choice for the vast majority of structural and exposed automotive components in the future.
Moving to specialty steel products during the second quarter we also experienced an increased sales of our electrical steel products.
As energy efficiency standards begin to take effect globally coupled with the growth in the domestic housing sector with housing starts reaching a seven year high in June demand for high efficiency grain or in electrical steel is accelerating.
In April we were pleased to learn the China had finally listed its duties on grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES imports from the United States this represents a very large potential market for our high permeability products and qualification trials are already underway with multiple Chinese customers.
There's also been a trade action on the electrical steel front in Europe with the European Union recently assessing provisional duties against the U.S producers including AK Steel.
We suspect however that even after duties are assessed demand from European buyers will remain firm for our high-quality electrical steel products again that assumes that the duty stand in their current form.
Back up to the home front well carbon steel spot market selling prices remained extremely low by historical standards the trend over the past several weeks has been an encouraging one.
With steady demand and slightly declining imports pricing has bounced off the bottom and it is now experiencing an upward trend.
Our first $20 per ton price increase that was announced on April 30 has been fully realized.
And our second $20 per ton increase announced on June 15 continuous to gain traction in the marketplace.
And as import levels and the service center inventories decline which is the current trend and as more trade actions occur and take effect we anticipate further strengthening of our carbon steel spot market prices in the third quarter and throughout the second half of 2015.
Also on a positive side of the ledger our operations as I said before are running well.
Our blast furnaces have been stable and consistent but they're capable of doing much more a lot more and obviously we'd love to challenge them with more business.
That's certainly the case with our Dearborn Works blast furnace and all of our operations at Dearborn.
As we approach the one year anniversary of our acquisition of Dearborn Works we continue to make really great progress in three key areas.
First employee safety performance second product quality and third cost reductions in other words the utilization of our cost-based synergies.
Despite lower than expected production levels from depressed market conditions for the first half of 2015 cost-based synergies from Dearborn totaled more than $27 million and around pace to realize more than $50 million of synergies in the first full-year of Dearborn ownership.
It's really terrific progress and it's a credit to the entire Dearborn team which has done a fantastic job with the Dearborn integration.
I think it's worth noting that we originally expected to generate about $25 million of first year synergies.
To achieve double that amount in this market is something we feel very good about indeed.
Speaking of Dearborn during the quarter we also sold our 50% interest in Double Eagle for $25 million and we announced a $29 million investment to modify the hot dip galvanizing line at Dearborn to produce next generation coated and cold-rolled advanced high strength steels.
We really listen closely to our automotive customers and this is exactly the kind of investment that they've been encouraging us to make in order to serve their future needs.
Once the Dearborn hot dip galvanizing line upgrade project is complete we'll be on the cutting edge of next-generation products to serve automakers with lighter stronger and more formable products for years to come.
And we've also got some late breaking Dearborn news we recently received a favorable decision in a dispute with DTE Energy on an outstanding power matter of some significance so decision is expected to result and the recovery of more than $25 million and it relates to overcharges for electricity over a period of several years prior to AK Steel's acquisition of that plant.
While I certainly hope you get the sense that despite our short-term challenges AK Steel is indeed a company that's focused on its future.
At the present time we remain focused on a number of things that we can do to improve our short-term performance controlling those things over which we have control including our cost performance.
Speaking of cost really throughout the company we're benefiting from lower raw material and energy costs.
While there has been tremendous volatility especially with respect to the IODEX index for iron ore we expect to benefit from lower iron ore and energy costs which were at some of the lowest levels we've experienced in the past decade.
And also remind you that there is a lagging effect of raw material costs accordingly from a cost standpoint.
The low point has yet to be experienced or rolled through our cost of goods sold that's certainly the case for iron ore.
Speaking of iron ore I'd note AK Steel continues to receive iron ore pellets from Magnetation's pellet plant in Reynolds Indiana under the current off-take agreement.
However to be prudent we've received a number of other highly competitive proposals to supply us with iron ore pellets for both the short and the long-term.
Just to suffice to say that other iron ore suppliers are both eager and well positioned to make up any potential pellet shortfall that we may experience from Magnetation and they're willing to do so at very very competitive pricing and quality levels.
One thing is clear there is no shortage of pellets in North America or in the world for that matter manner.
Switching gears let me also take a moment to briefly comment on the subject of our labor relations.
At AK Steel we've got excellent labor relations with all of our unions including the United Steel Workers the United Auto Workers and the International Association of Machinists in fact we believe we've got some of the most competitive labor deals within the steel business.
We have no remaining expiring labor agreements at AK Steel in 2015.
New competitive labor deals have been reached at all locations where we had expiring labor agreements this year that's credit to our bargaining team and labor leaders.
In contrast a the number for our carbon and specialty steel competitors have labor deals that have either already expired such as the case of Allegheny which expired on June 30 or will expire in the next month or so as this is the case of [indiscernible] Metal and United State Steel on September 1.
No doubt the parties are hard at work to hammer out new deals that'll likely occur soon but should any of our customers find themselves in a need of more great quality carbon or specialty steel products let me simply say that AK Steel is here to meet your needs.
Prior to taking your questions I'd be remiss if I didn't provide a brief comment or two on our company's recent stock price performance.
At AK Steel we're in the value business.
Providing value-added products and services to our customers and enhancing value for the owners of our company our shareholders.
Everything we do everything we do at AK Steel is done to add value of one sort or another.
In the past couple of months however that's rather difficult to see in our stock price stock prices are the end product of a business model that generates solid earnings and cash flow.
For us it starts with running a great operation making great steel products and doing so very efficiently with comparable equipment facilities making more making better making faster and doing it safer than anyone else.
But before you can make steel customers have to order it.
We differentiate ourselves in what we do and then how we do it in our mission quite simply is to serve customers better than any other steel maker by providing the highest quality products and the best delivering customer service available period.
Running well 24x7 meeting customers' requirements on a daily basis and delivering short-term results as we invest to serve customers for the long run and generate solid long-term returns for our shareholders.
Balancing the near-term with the long-term taking care of today while investing for tomorrow to ensure the long-term viability and success of the enterprise.
But in the course of running a great operation day-in and day-out and in simultaneously investing for the future we've recognized very clearly that the world around us has changed in a significant manner and that's pressured our margins in recent years and certainly again in the second quarter of 2015.
No excuses those are just the facts.
We didn't forget how to make great steel nor did we forget how to make money.
But the combination of increased global steel capacity excess capacity that is combined with extremely low pricing driven by what we and other domestic producers view as unfairly imports as certainly pressured our profitability.
We've recognized that while we take great care of our people and our customers we must also take great care of our shareholders.
Both as a Board of Directors and as a management team that is exactly what we are focused on doing.
Accordingly we're in the midst of a critical evaluation of every part of our business every product every market and every plant to ensure that they fit for the long-term as we seek to restore sustain and grow our profitability.
Aggressively growing the top line is very important and substantially improving the bottom line is equally if not more important that's why we continue to be very focused on cutting cost.
It's something we're quite accustomed to doing at AK Steel.
In fact you might say that cost-cutting is a way of life at AK Steel.
It's not a program for a quarter or two or a year or two it is a continuous process and as a management team our approach is one of continuous improvement case in point our Dearborn acquisition worked for the past nine months.
We've achieved substantial cost-based synergies $27 million of cost-based synergies to be exact as I already mentioned but we didn't stop there.
There was another $50 million of first half 2015 cost reductions that we achieved in the business that's about 80% taking place in our operations and about 20% coming out of overhead cost reductions.
We've continued to reduce our cost by improving our product yields by optimizing our product routings by improving the efficiency of our labor by utilizing our purchasing power and by taking the opportunity to replace higher priced inputs with lower cost products just to name a few from our list of hundreds of cost savings projects.
For example we reworked the caster slab length at one of our stainless facilities to improve the yield and reduce waste.
We revised our steelmaking logic at one of our melt shops that allowed us to use more high carbon chrome which resulted in significant cost savings.
We continue to push for the use of lower-cost materials in each of our blast furnace burden and we continue to make incremental productivity gains everywhere that further reduce our costs.
Each operating plant and every staff department continues to focus on turning over every rock and being creative to find cost savings and it is working.
Our focus on reducing cost has not changed nor will it change going forward.
But depending upon the outcome of our analysis we may very well change the structure of our business as well as the products that we produce and the markets that we service.
We would do this to ensure that we generate an adequate return for our shareholders and to make sure that we're well positioned to meet the needs of our customers for decades to come.
Our weave refresher a little more than a year ago on July 21 2014 we announced the acquisition of Severstal North America's Dearborn plant in Dearborn Michigan.
On September 16 we closed on the acquisition for approximately $700 million.
And I would also note that the purchase price included about $300 million of working capital.
Upon completing the deal the largest in more than a decade for our company we were named the facility Dearborn works and it became our eighth steel plant.
It's a great growth platform for revenues and for profits.
But despite complementing our existing carbon steel operations becoming a better and stronger company as a premier North American steel manufacturer.
And despite being better position today than we were a year ago to compete and win other global steel marketplace our market capitalization over that period has declined substantially that ladies and gentlemen is both very painful and it is truly incredible and disappointing.
I want to assure you that none of us are happy about that decline least of all me.
While we cannot control the day-to-day movement in our share price obviously we can't do a number of things.
We can enhance our strategies.
We can further reduce our costs and we will.
We can do those on a host of other things to add value we can do better and I assure you we will do better for the owners of the company our shareholders.
We'll do it by focusing on those actions that improve our cash flow and de-lever the company.
This will provide us with the financial flexibility to invest in new value creating opportunities and it put us in a better position to consider repurchasing our securities especially when the market undervalues our future.
In closing let me offer just a few thank you's.
First to our people thanks to our employees for all of their continued handwork and dedication in the face of continued adversity.
There is no finer workforce to be found in the steel industry in American or the world.
Thanks to our customers for the opportunity to serve your needs we recognize that without you AK Steel would not exist we never take that for granted even for a moment.
And thanks to our shareholders who are quite well represented by our steam Board of Directors.
We appreciate the continued support of all of our shareholders as we restore AK Steel to profitability improve our cash flow and support our shares all of which should add and will add significant value over the long run.
Thanks again to all of you for joining us today and for your continued support of AK Steel better days are ahead.
Now to recap our second quarter financial results here is our Executive Vice President of Finance and CFO Roger Newport.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
Earlier today AK Steel reported a net loss of $64 million or $0.36 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2015 which was slightly better than our guidance of a loss of $0.37 to $0.42 per share.
This result compares to a net loss of $306.3 million or a $1.72 per share for the first quarter of 2015.
Our results for the first quarter of 2015 included an impairment charge of $256.3 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair our investment in Magnetation LLC.
Our shipments of a 1 811 700 tons for the second quarter of 2015 represented an increase of 61 000 tons or about a 3.5% improvement over the first quarter of 2015 and was in line with our guidance.
This increase was primarily the result of higher shipments to the carbon spot market as well as continued strength in the automotive market.
However our total shipment continued to be impacted by excess deal supplies in the United States which resulted from high levels of what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
As Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains good in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remained strong in the second quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the second quarter was $931 per ton this was $68 per ton lower than our average selling price for the first quarter but in line with our guidance.
Our average selling price in the second quarter decreased compared to the first quarter primarily due to a higher percentage of shipments to the carbon steel spot market in our product mix as well as a reduction in selling prices from sales contracts with variable pricing mechanisms.
Revenues for the second quarter totaled approximately $1.7 billion this was roughly $60 million or 3.5% lower than our first quarter sales.
The decrease was driven by lower spot market prices and a less rich product mix in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Raw material and energy costs were lower in the second quarter compared to the first quarter particularly for iron ore pellets carbon scrap and natural gas.
However cost for these commodities did not decrease as quickly as carbon steels stock market prices deteriorated during that same time period.
We do expect iron ore cost to decline further in the third quarter which is a benefit to us.
I would note that a key component of determining our cost of iron ore is the IODEX index which has remained low from a historical perspective.
We incurred $18.2 million of planned maintenance outage cost in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $13.6 million in the first quarter.
While we have typical plant maintenance outage is scheduled throughout the remainder of 2015 our planned outage cost for the second half of the year expected to be less than what we incurred in the first half of 2015 and we do not have any blast furnace outages planned for the balance of this year.
In the second quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of $34.8 million which compared to a LIFO credit of $17.1 million for the first quarter.
This was primarily driven by the continued decline in raw material cost.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude the Magnetation impairment charge and the non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $47.6 million or $26 per ton.
This compares to EBITDA of $57.5 million or $33 per ton in the first quarter of 2015.
The primary driver of this decline was lower carbon steel spot market prices partially offset by lower raw material cost.
While we are not pleased with this level of performance we will continue to be focused on lowering our cost to help mitigate some of the market impacts.
Moving to our results for the first six months of 2015 revenues were more than $3.4 billion an increase of approximately $526 million or 18% compared to the first half of 2014 and this was primarily due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Shipments for the first six months of 2015 were 3 562 000 tons an increase of roughly 900 000 tons or 34% compared to the first six months of 2014.
Once again primarily due to the acquisition of acquisition Dearborn Works as well as the continued strength in the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the first half of 2015 was $965 per ton a decrease of $131 per ton or roughly 12% compared to the first half of 2014.
This decrease in average selling was primarily attributable to significantly lower carbon steel spot market selling prices in 2015 which was driven by a surge in low priced foreign steel imports.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $31.8 million in planned maintenance outages cost during the first half of 2015 which was virtually identical to $31.9 million spent during the first six months of 2014.
In the first half of 2014 we also incurred unplanned outage cost of $18 million as a result of our incident at our Ashland Works blast furnace.
Also in 2014 the extreme winter weather conditions resulted in higher cost of approximately $45 million in the first six months of 2014 for items such as electricity natural gas transportation and operating costs.
At the bottom line for the first six months of 2013 we reported a net loss of $370.3 million or $2.08 per share compared to a net loss of $103.2 million or $0.76 per share for the first half of 2014.
Our results for the first half of 2015 included a charge of $256.3 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair investment in Magnetation.
Excluding this for the first half of 2015 we incurred a net loss of $114 million or $0.64 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
For the second quarter of 2015 our capital investments totaled approximately $21 million bringing our first half capital investments to about $49 million.
For the full year we anticipate capital investments of approximately $150 million.
For the first half of 2015 working capital was a source of cash of approximately $44 million typically we are users of cash for working capital in the first half of the year.
However our keen focus on working capital resulted and it being an $88 million source of cash in the second quarter.
We ended the second quarter of 2015 with a solid liquidity of $800 million almost equal to our liquidity of $807 million at the end of the first quarter despite the challenging steel market conditions we faced in the second quarter.
I would also note we were able to reduce our credit facility borrowings in the second quarter by $85 million.
This reduction in borrowings was offset by the reduction in our borrowing base that resulted chiefly from our progress in reducing working capital.
Result was at our liquidity remained relatively flat compared to the first quarter despite some very challenging market conditions.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipate substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including substantially lower pension funding requirements.
Our pension funding requirements for 2015 are $24.1 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining $23.1 million contribution was completed in early July.
More importantly based on our current actuarial assumptions and pension funding regulations we currently estimate that we will have no pension funding requirements in either 2016 or 2017.
So we believe we are in very good position from a liquidity perspective.
We have more than sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs but more importantly are focused on lowering our cost and optimizing our operations to enhance our cash flows so that we can reduce debt levels.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our cost-based synergies related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
We are very pleased with our progress on the synergies and the savings from items such as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and they are meeting or exceeding our expectations.
As Jim mentioned our year-to-date synergies through the first half of 2015 totaled approximately $27 million and this synergies total is without the benefit of volume based synergies since we actually had to reduce our operating levels due to the surge of carbon steel imports.
Despite these marketing - these market challenges we continue to make great progress in realizing the benefits of our Dearborn acquisition and we are on track to lower our operating costs there by over $50 million in 2015.
We'll be continuing to identify additional synergy opportunities and still expect to eventually obtain the volume related cost synergies when the market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well-positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operation going forward.
Turning to our outlook for the third quarter of 2015 as is our practice we plan to provide financial guidance in September.
However at this time the company believes it is appropriate to provide the following qualitative guidance.
For a variety of reasons the company expects to generate improved results for the third quarter and the second-half of 2015 as compared to the second quarter and first-half of 2015.
Keep chief among these reasons are anticipated higher shipments improving carbon steel spot market prices increased production levels resulting a lower per ton operating cost and a continuing benefit of lower raw material cost in particular iron ore.
The company expects shipments to customers and its largest market automotive to remain strong.
In addition the company expects the level of what's the company believes are unfairly traded imports of carbon steel products will continue to decline in the second-half of the year principally because of the pending and anticipated future steel industry trade cases resulting an increased domestic steel shipments and a continuing improving trend in selling prices.
Let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brett Levy of CRT Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Excellent job in difficult working situations.
Can you guys talk a little bit about kind of why you're optimistic about these trade cases the dollar the situation with the price of steel in China.
All of the things that you sort of thing would make this for the case? Brett thanks for the comments.
With respect to the cases as you know they took a while to bring.
The reason they took a while to bring is that the data had to be analyzed very carefully it was.
There is a great substance behind them and frankly as I said in my prepared remarks it' about time.
Let's get on with it.
These have [indiscernible] and interestingly in addition to the K system itself the legislation that's been passed it's a level the playing field really allows cases to be brought faster sort of redefine the definition of injury and get them resolved a lot quicker that is all going to be a very good thing in this particular instance with the cases that have been filed and for future cases would come.
We've already seen the benefit candidly from the corrosion-resistant case obviously prices are up for those products.
We suspect the same will be true with respect to hot-rolled products and perhaps with any good fortune very soon hot rolled cases will be coming as well but the evidence I would point to is we're already seeing a benefit.
Those are my major questions.
I'm out of the queue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Hello.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning.
I want to ask about a couple of quarters ago when you had told us that you expected to be free cash flow positive for the year.
And I know that you haven't said that in your last couple of calls but I did want to ask it again maybe there'd be a pass but also because you have been free cash flow positive the way you report at least in the first half of the year and you're expecting an improved second half.
So just wondering if there is anything that we're missing that would derail that free cash flow positive view? And then specific to free cash flow if you could also help us extract the SunCoke cash flows to get to the bottom of the AK cash flows? Thanks.
Just to offer the following Timna.
First off our job as the senior management the management team of the company as you know is to be great generators and prudent deployers of our cash.
We spent all of our time focused on doing exactly that I think we're making excellent progress in that regard.
We certainly expect and continue to expect to have a 2015 that'll be a much better year than 2014 as evidencing our progress be our best year we expect since 2008.
You know we don't give annual guidance and rarely give quarterly guidance that is at least until the end of the quarter we felt it was appropriate to indicate our outlook for the second half being much better than we did that in the a qualitative piece.
I think the thing I would just also emphasize is that while we expect to generate more cash we also expect to use a lot less cash about $300 million less this year through combination of lower pension contributions required and no required investments in Magnetation and so forth.
So cash flow positive free cash flow are certainly continued objectives of the company and we're above that.
We've made some very excellent progress as I said in terms of the cost reduction initiatives and in terms of managing working capital.
The key in all of this no surprise as what has taken us into a loss will bring us back into a profit and that is a reversal of the trends of the spot market dumped imports and their effect on pricing and volumes.
We absolutely see a recovery in the second half can't come fast enough.
Okay.
I know there is a lot of focus on this.
And I am sure some people not just me would like to hear a little more detail but I can follow-up with you offline.
I just wanted to ask I guess a second question if you could help remind us about the potential timing of any benefit of better stainless prices and electrical prices because it's never quite clear to me how much you might benefit in the short-term given a lot of your businesses contracted more annually if you could help us with that? Thanks.
You're right most of our business is contracted annually.
Those contracts depending on the market expire throughout the year.
Many of the specialty steel contracts expire more at the first of the year and many of those discussions are underway now and a better environment than we've had for a while and particularly on the international front for our higher end efficiency electrical fields headline there is we're sold out.
We're sold out for the balance of 2015 at higher prices and so as we go into discussions that positions us in a much better place than we have been in a while.
The other contracts again as I said were in a variety of discussions now a number of them will heat up later in the year and each of those is sort of unique and individual and special in their own way and I think it's a little early to give much sense of which direction those will go.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hi gentlemen.
Good morning Tony.
Good morning.
Hi Jim.
I've got a couple of questions also and I was surprise first by the deterioration sequentially in your stainless and electrical shipments and you typically see a nice bump in the second quarter.
And I was wondering if you could provide some color there? Was the first quarter abnormally strong? Or is it the imports or just some color there would be helpful? Yeah.
Let me start and Roger is welcome to sort of chime in.
Really nothing of a significant nature jumps out at us and really there is no message that we're trying to send here.
For us in the stainless arena it's really the 400 series of product that has continued to track a very strong automotive marketplace we feel very good about that.
I think the other side of the coin is the 300 series and the more commodity type products no question that's been whacked if you will by imports.
So that's - electrical steel is actually on the rise in particular internationally but [ph] math is also holding strong and that's really a function of the recovery in the housing market as I said being as strong as it's been in the past seven years and these new efficiency standards that are kicking in around the world and here.
So I don't know Roger do you have any...? Yeah.
Tony also the other item that would be affecting it is - it was - is with the nickel prices falling you've seen us reduce our position in commodity chrome nickel.
As Jim mentioned we're not a big player in that but with it falling we are not a player - a much of a player in that.
Also we've seen some of the competitors get caught up and getting more product out to the marketplace in the second quarter.
And then also we had a very strong auto chrome business in the first quarter record shipments there.
And if you look at second quarter you would be going into the shutdowns for the automotive company so you could have a little bit of seasonality there but if you look at it our total stainless electrical roughly one from 228 000 ton to 223 000 ton so not really any material change there.
Okay.
And I have a question about raw material cost so you talk about iron ore cost declining further in 3Q and into the second half can you provide an order of magnitude on a percentage basis for us? Tony I'm going to ask Kirk Reich to comment on that.
Okay.
Great.
Yeah.
So what we see quarter-over-quarter we know the IODEX is going down around $10 a ton comparing second quarter to the third quarter.
Remind you that all the lag is - some of our contracts actually are based on Vale model which is four months in a rear so we already know most of our second quarter and most of our third quarter cost rather.
And so it's that kind of order of magnitude.
Now remember that not every dollar of all the iron ore we spend is based on the IODEX it's IODEX and several other factors but that's a good chunk of it so that gives you an order of magnitude of how we'd be improving on the quarter.
Yeah.
I'd just sort of add as postscript.
You've got a $10 move in the IODEX we might recognize some portion of that not all of that obviously and then we might be talking about something on the order of magnitude of $2.5 million tons of ore affected in the quarter.
So there is that there is also raw materials that are coming through all of which are good guys if you will at this moment in time Tony.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jorge Beristain of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Jorge.
Yes.
Sorry - Jorge Beristain with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe Jim could you talk a little bit about what's going on with relative market share is because you do talk about imports really pressuring the landscape but we saw your shipments only increased about 3% quarter-on-quarter versus a 12% and 24% in flat rolled from your competitors like Steel Dynamics and Nucor.
So could you just talk about are you possibly losing some market share due to the financial stress on your balance sheet? And then therefore could we also see a quick inflexion of that in the second half as you start hit free cash flow? Do you think that clients are kind of stepping to the sidelines due to some financial pressure at AK Steel or is that a non-issue? We're growing market share in the markets we wish to grow in.
In particular the higher end more value-added contract business coded expose those kinds of things.
We consciously choose.
We make independent decisions about every order that we take or we forego.
And when prices get to $380 or $400 a ton as they did during the quarter we wish not to lose that much money.
Others may take a different view.
Their cost structure maybe somewhat different but again we'll continue to focus on those pieces and parts of the business so its niches that we think we differentiate ourselves in.
I do suspect that things are changing.
I think that as we reassess things in the second half of the year and really have already begun to do so we're seeing as we've said in our qualitative guidance for the third quarter and anticipate increased shipments as well as increased pricing.
So the trade case is matter undoubtedly.
And we like loading our mills more full than we are now.
We ran it something like 78% to 79%.
We expect that level to increase to the low 80s and to the mid-80s as we look out to the balance of the year.
It will be driven in part by the continued pretty strong demand that we see domestically and we're getting a handle on these unfairly traded imports.
Thank you.
And maybe just a strategic follow up question I have is you mentioned that you're in the process of doing a pretty thorough [indiscernible] strategic review of your business.
Is there - are you weighted at this point to the integrated model in the sense of if your strategic review came back and said you guys are shutdown one of your blast furnaces and go to a non-integrated model is that on the card? Is that what you'd kind of told earlier or am I misreading that? Let me just step back again this isn't about fear mongering or creating uncertainty this is about recognizing that something like 90% of steel companies on earth are losing money now and we're amongst them and that cannot go on indefinitely.
So the kind of thing that we're focused on is a kind of thing that really every entity and for that matter every manufacturer should be and we're doing that.
We're doing it in a very good and full way and we'll have more to say about that when we're ready.
I would just offer this it involves looking at our sales portfolio our innovation efforts our operations our raw materials and energy positions all of which contribute to positioning us to get profitable and remain profitable throughout the cycle.
One of the things that we ultimately have to determine here is whether or not the recent downturn is indeed another cyclical downturn or if it is a secular move that results in some actions that would be distasteful but required for the long run.
We have a combination I think Jorge as you know already of blast furnaces and electric car furnaces we are unique in that regard we're also unique in terms of our products mix with carbon and specialty that is electrical and stainless products.
So we have really a wide range of opportunities here to look at and we're looking at them.
And we'll see what the results show but the resulting structure of the company in the forward position that can't be a one that positions us to earn money and generate solid cash flow and that's exactly why we're here and we'll get it done as quickly as we can.
And Jorge I want to go back to your first question too when you asked about our decline and shipments.
And if you look at it comparing straight back to the fourth quarter before the lot of imports came in and compared it to current quarter our biggest decline was in the hot-rolled market.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Mike did you change your name? Was that Jim? Never mind.
If we didn't quite get your name but we know you are and welcome.
Thank you.
Hey I just have a question on the trade cases you mentioned the possibility of trade case on stainless.
In fact that it'd be a bit harder to do in the U.S.
because the two largest stainless producers are European companies? Here is all I have to say at the precious time about that.
Imports are imports and we are seeing an awful lot of imports again that we think fall into that category of unfairly traded.
We're assessing it.
We're analyzing the data.
We'll have more to say.
They're increasingly moving from commodity into more of our space as to why it would be easier or tougher remains to be seen but the data will tell the story and that data is being compiled and analyzed as we speak Mike.
But are the two European companies Outokumpu and Acerinox that own the big U.S.
operations are they actively looking at filing cases? I don't know that I can speak for other companies.
I would just say that there is an effort underway on sort of a no names basis to take a look at this very carefully.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Phil.
Hey Jim.
Can you help us understand pricing as we move into the third quarter versus the first the second quarter and why you think it will be better just because I know that like well we believe that most of the most of the integrated producers have some lags in their contracts from pricing in prior quarters things of that nature some step-downs on contracts et cetera.
And why would you you think given your big contract mix at present that the pricing would get better versus the second quarter - help us.
Can you help us how to sure about that Sure I will do my best first of all I just point to the fact that prices are indeed up off the bottom right.
So the first piece of evidence that I'd offer to you is that prices are substantially up from where they were or probably up about a $100 a ton off very bottom of the offerings in the last 90 days.
And yet I would also remind you that we're probably still a $150 a ton or so from where we were maybe a year ago at this point.
And I would also offer that very few are able to make money at these levels.
So I think those are all important factors when one considers us beyond that.
Again the prices that we transacted at in the second quarter were all based kind of the on the if comp in another words if trade cases would come what would be affected now we have two trade cases that have been filed with a third one likely to come soon.
So that's going to happen so what led prices down in the spot market was the flood of the imports which was I think at its peak about 34% to 35% it's already headed back to about 27% that's still way too high by historical standards or for any degree of comfort.
But what led the prices down is exactly what's leading the prices back up and that's getting the handle on the imports we're rules based and we have to enforce our trade laws that is beginning to take shape and I think that' going have a significant effect particularly as we lookout into the latter part of the third quarter and into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just secondarily I was - I thought your comments on exploring all avenues of the business in terms of the operational footprint was and is very refreshing in terms of sustainable free cash flow and looking at all avenues of the business model.
Is that something that has been a more recent thought process and how long - how long or when should we start to see some more dramatic changes in your business for the next year or two I mean what should we be expecting because I think it's all a good stuff.
Well I would just ask you to stay tuned but be a little patient not too patient with us we do this sort of thing on a regular basis strategic reviews for AK Steel are not a once a year deal or we put it on shelf this is an ongoing exercise and it is a very deep dive this time around we have some preliminary thoughts but again we want to sort of test those if not stress test those to make sure we're not simply reacting to current event syndrome and doing things that are in our best long-term interest and I suspect - we may have more to say about that in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Jim how are you? Hi Aldo.
Yeah.
So Jim on the hot-rolled coil potential cases is it true that there is still very large hot-coiled tariff in place on Russian and China right now out there or..
That's certainly the case on China.
Yeah.
That's certainly the case on China.
On China.
I think the Russian had this suspension agreement.
Yeah.
Suspension agreement.
Which has now reverted back to tariffs I think I'm not sure.
And Doug I guess my question is would you still file cases against countries that have existing tariffs because you think you could increase them is that part of the game plan? No.
I mean we're going to focus on is what the data is all put together the information will tell us where the material is coming from so that's really what's been evaluated.
As we said on these trade cases we're looking at the data and the data will tell you what's going on.
I don't want to speculate [indiscernible] when do for any single country because it really just depends where that steel is coming through what country is coming through and how it's arriving here on our shores.
Great.
And then I wondered Jim could you tell us what you think the change in the trade laws recently was that made that it easier to prove damages? Oh gosh I'm sure there is a lot of lawyers inside and outside the company that are far better positioned but it really does get to this proving of material injury.
The fact that you really don't have to go bankrupt or hemorrhage large volumes of cash over a period of time.
I think there are a variety of new measures although and we can detail those for you that what sort of indicate that there is a basis for bringing case and really proving injury and getting it through the system a lot faster.
That's it in the nutshell and sort of a laymen's term but it really is a very good thing.
By part as an effort with the president support and I think it begins to position America American manufacturing and certainly the steel industry to compete more effectively.
And we need to arguably as I've said before we're a bit of a victim of our own prosperity in relation to the rest of the world.
We've recovered faster and stronger and we're viewed as really a dumping ground.
And we have to be mindful of a couple of things.
I think the next level of legislation has to deal with the change in states of products.
We find that two things really occur.
One when certain countries are named as violators other countries are not named as violators immediately sort of take on the position of those that were zoned out and we've got to be quick to kind of nail those guys and get on with it.
The other thing is the change in phase of the products in some cases you can change get a case on cold rolled or hot rolled or whatever it maybe but then the product that winds up coming into the country some sort of value-added product.
We've got to be really on our game.
And we will be I think now that we have the attention of our legislators that they understand manufacturing is the backbone of the U.S.
economy and steel is the backbone of manufacturing.
We need a strong spine in our legislators and then our leaders they're stepping up to the challenge I think all of that will be helpful.
Thanks Jim.
And Roger one last one.
Do you have an estimate of what LIFO might be in the second half? No I wouldn't give an estimate but I think if you look at it we were about $52 million for the first half.
So that the way we account forward is that would represent both half of what we would estimate for the entire year.
Yeah.
So at this point nothing changes you might get $52 million? So the only thing that really will drive it is if what happens with raw material cost.
Go ahead.
And as Kirk mentioned we know what the iron ore is going to be in third quarter so there is still some opportunity for iron ore to fluctuate some in fourth quarter and then what happens with some of the other raw materials as you know nickel was declined scrap - carbon scrap to go up or down.
So those will be the only other main drivers that we've done drive what happens with LIFO.
Ladies and gentlemen let me take this opportunity to thank you again for joining us on today's call and for your continuing interest in AK Steel.
On behalf of all of us here at the company we want to wish you all the best for a great day a better tomorrow and a much better second half of 2015.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.