Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to AK Steel's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
With us today are Mr.
James L.
Wainscott Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of AK Steel; Mr.
Roger K.
Newport Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer; Mr.
Kirk W.
Reich Executive Vice President of Manufacturing; and Mr.
Douglas O.
Mitterholzer General Manager Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer.
At this time I’ll turn the conference over to Doug Mitterholzer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice and good morning everyone.
Welcome to AK Steel's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
In a moment Jim Wainscott will offer his comments on our business.
Following Jim's remarks Roger Newport will review our third quarter 2015 financial results and together we will field your questions.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Included among those forward-looking statements will be any comments concerning our expectations as to future shipments product mix prices costs operating profit EBITDA or liquidity.
Please note that our actual results may differ materially from what is contained in the forward-looking statements provided during this call.
Information concerning factors that could cause such material differences in results is contained in our earnings release issued earlier today.
Except as required by law the company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or events.
To the extent that we refer to material information that includes non-GAAP financial measures the reconciliation information required by Regulation G is available on the company's Web site at aksteel.com.
With that here's Jim for his comments.
Jim? Thank you Doug.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on today's call.
Earlier today AK Steel reported its best quarter of 2015 and our highest quarterly EBITDA level in nearly six years as we generated EBITDA of $120 million or $64 per ton for the third quarter of 2015.
And AK Steel made money for the third quarter.
We are net income of approximately $7 million which is equal to EPS of $0.04 per share.
I want to take this opportunity to compliment and thank our management team and our entire workforce for their efforts in the third quarter and always especially in the face of adverse conditions.
During the third quarter we faced significant challenges especially in terms of pressures on carbon steel spot market selling prices order intake rates production volumes and shipments.
And all of these challenges stem from a common and a continuing problem imports.
The United States market for flat rolled carbon steel has been flooded with what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
Notwithstanding the unfair trade practices we faced we pulled together as a team and focused on controlling what we could control especially in terms of our controllable costs and delivered a profitable quarter for our shareholders.
Once again these results reflect a great team effort by the entire AK Steel workforce a workforce that unfortunately has a – it has a lot of experience in countering and overcoming adversity.
At AK Steel rather despite the challenges we face we’re focused on continuous improvement in all that we do.
Said another way despite what may come our way we know that we must get better each and every day.
And with that mindset we set about the quarter to run our operations well get our cost down and further integrate Dearborn Works.
And we succeeded on each of those fronts.
Indeed our operations ran very well albeit at levels of production below what we would have preferred.
That has nothing to do with operating issues.
Instead it has everything to do with the high level of steel imports that I’ve previously mentioned.
During the third quarter we set numerous records in our operations and especially by our employees at Dearborn Works who set a new quarterly production record at the hot dip galvanizing line which is a job well done.
And kudos as well to our employees at Butler Works who set a number of production records during the third quarter in electrical steel processing.
It was these record production levels that allowed us to meet the increased electrical steel demand from our customers.
Running well setting production records and improving internal and external quality performances are key to lowering our operating costs.
And as expected on the steel making input cost front our input cost were lower in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter.
This was the case as lower raw material costs flowed through our product costs.
That was especially true for our iron ore and scrap cost but it was a similar story for other input costs as well.
We also continued to experienced higher cost based synergies from the operation and integration of Dearborn Works.
During the third quarter of 2015 we marked the one-year anniversary of our ownership operation and ongoing integration of Dearborn Works.
We’ve made tremendous gains at Dearborn in the past year in every area including the important areas of safety environmental quality and productivity.
In spite of the lower than expected operating rates and shipment volumes because of the excessive amount of foreign steel landing on our shores our cost based synergies at Dearborn have actually exceeded earlier expectations.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we’ve achieved more than $43 million of cost based synergies and we’re on pace to achieve about $58 million in Dearborn synergies for the full year 2015.
While the carbon steel spot market for flat rolled sheet remains flooded so to speak we have continued to observe a very solid automotive market for our carbon and stainless steel products.
As a company for the third quarter of 2015 we set an all-time record in terms of shipments to automotive customers.
While no market is perfectly nor permanently insulated from import pressures it’s safe to say that the automotive sector has historically been served by domestic producers and that’s due to quality service and just-in-time delivery factors as well as price and a host of other factors that are very important to the auto manufacturers.
The strong automotive market is also helping to fuel demand in the stainless steel arena as well as most of you know AK Steel is not a big player in terms of commodity stainless steel.
Instead we focus more on auto chrome or 400 series stainless steel and those products and other value-added stainless steels.
NAFTA auto builds continue on a near record pace.
That’s very good news for our auto chrome business and it allowed us to experience our second best quarterly auto chrome shipment level in our company’s history.
Incidentally that’s second only to the first quarter of this year.
So things are hot in that market as well.
I’m pleased to share with you that the electrical steel market is also improving.
Our third quarter 2015 electrical steel shipments were roughly 3% higher than the second quarter of this year and about 10% higher than the third quarter of 2014.
The grain-oriented electrical steel or GOES market within that still continues to exhibit signs of steady growth.
This growth is coming from a real increase in demand coupled with the 2016 effective date of the United States Department of Energy’s increased efficiency standards.
It’s a similar story for exported GOES products implementation of the new European efficiency standards is creating more demand for our high efficiency electrical steel products and a trade case against a number of countries including the United States Russia China and other Asian producers has created a fairly tight market.
In our case given all of the market dynamics we are booked full for the balance of 2015 on all of our high-end electrical steel products including TRAN-COR H and our High-B products.
As a result we’re also experiencing improved spot market prices for these products.
With no control over carbon steel spot market selling prices which have fallen to levels the lowest since mid-2009 we’re highly focused on those things that we can indeed control.
In addition to staying true to our values of safety quality and productivity we’re especially focused these days on lowering our costs; our operating costs our steel-making input costs and our overhead costs and we’re very focused as well on enhancing our cash flow and liquidity positions.
Cost is the enemy of profitability and in an environment of the sort which we’re in every plant every department and every employee has to justify every expenditure.
In addition to the Dearborn cost based synergies that I spoke of previously we’re on pace to reduce cost elsewhere in the company to the tune of approximately $60 million for the full year 2015.
Not only do we believe it’s sustainable but we’re seeking more a lot more.
Some related to raw materials but it’s everywhere else that cost lives.
And the more you dig the more you discover that cost live just about everywhere and there’s always more cost cutting opportunities to be found.
Cost control and cost reduction activities are really nothing new for AK Steel.
It’s part of our heritage and it’s been in place ever since AK Steel has been AK Steel.
We’re constantly and we’re continuously finding ways to lower cost and improve efficiencies.
We will redouble our cost reduction efforts in 2016.
Given current market conditions it’s essential that we reduce cost further.
The low-hanging fruit has been picked so these cost reductions are painful ones but they’re absolutely necessary ones.
Speaking of painful measures on Friday October 16 we issued a warn notice to certain employees of AK Steel’s Ashland Works.
This action was taken because beginning in mid-December we intend to temporary idle Ashland’s steel making operations.
The duration of that idle will be based upon market conditions and while we cannot say how long it will last it could extend for more than six months.
This action has been brought about by the incredibly high level of what we believe are unfairly traded imported steel and its impact on pricing incredibly low pricing.
I want to give you some idea of just how bad carbon steel’s stock market pricing has become.
When we acquired Dearborn Works in September of 2014 benchmark hot rolled pricing was about $650 per ton.
Since our acquisition with the import pressures that price has declined by about $250 per ton or nearly 40% to right around $400 per ton.
And at this point our current prices for hot rolled coil are – well they’re very near their 15-year low levels and that ladies and gentlemen is simply incredible.
What’s worse is that the three trade cases that have been filed are taking at least in my opinion far too long to be completed and have the duties applied.
So we have to act and we are doing just that.
On the heels of the substantial decline in carbon steel spot market prices the latest challenge we’re facing is that our contract customers now want to pay lower prices for their steel as well.
They want to benefit from the reduction in our steel making input costs and all of the actions that we’ve pursued internally to remain healthy in the face of what we believe is unfair trade.
And they want these price reductions despite the painstaking efforts we go to in order to provide them with near-perfect steel just-in-time delivery tremendous customer service and support new product development such as advanced high-strength steels advanced engineering and substantial inventory programs.
And despite all of those value-added items our contract customers want to pay less for their steel in the future.
Bottom line is simply this.
We cannot give what we do not have.
At AK Steel we’re looking to protect and to grow our margins not shrink them into oblivion.
And if we don’t charge a selling price it allows our company to generate a profit reinvest in the business including advanced high-strength steels and be self sustaining well then shame on us.
We do our customers and our shareholders a great disservice at that point.
So we do indeed charge a fair price for our steel one that keeps us in business because we want to be here tomorrow next year and 10 years from now to serve our customers and to serve them well.
So in order to do so we need what we need including a price that allows us to consistently make money and invest for the future.
Our mission at AK Steel to be clear is to take great care of our three constituent groups including our customers our employees and our shareholders.
Just to expand on this for a moment AK Steel has been here and will continue to be here to keep our employees safe at all times to serve customers better than any other steelmaker and to reward our shareholders for the long run.
To do these things and to do them well it’s important that we consistently make money and prove our cash and liquidity positions strengthen our balance sheet and get our stock price up.
We get it and we are on it.
Because of this earlier in 2015 we initiated a comprehensive strategic review to position ourselves to compete and to win in the global steel economy.
Among other things in this review we continue to evaluate the long-term footprint for AK Steel while asking ourselves what businesses should we continue to be in what products should we make and where should we make and where should we sell them and what configuration optimizes the outcome for our company in the steel world of the future? The warn notice recently issued to our Ashland Works employees is intended to be temporary in nature but the future of Ashland Works as well as the future of our other facilities depends in great measure on our ability to increase our production volumes our shipment volumes and the selling prices of our value-added products.
And it depends on our ability to reduce our exposure to those products and markets which are more commoditized and were differentiation is not appreciated or valued.
We will reconfigure the business accordingly and we will do everything we can to cut cost along the way.
Ultimately however we need a recovery on the top line in order to significant improve the bottom line.
And we need to align our production capabilities with anticipated market trends.
In short we need the right footprint to compete more effectively in the days ahead.
We need to be where we need to be to meet our customers’ evolving needs and we need to continue to invest in research and innovation as we develop and manufacture the products our customers require in the future.
As we move forward over the next several months we’ll continue our laser-like focus on customers and costs and we will determine what makes sense.
What makes sense for AK Steel to achieve a sustainable level of profitability? Before turning it over to Roger for some more insights into our quarterly financial performance and before Roger Kirk and I take your questions let me offer a few thoughts about our succession planning.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing my retirement from AK Steel effective January 1 of 2016.
At each Board of Directors meeting we discuss succession planning including developing our internal candidates to succeed me and the vice presidents of the company.
While planning and development activities have been taking place for years the Board and I concluded at last week’s board meeting that my successors are ready to lead this great company into the future.
Accordingly in a few months I’ll retire and pass on the leadership torch to my successors and obviously I do so with very mixed emotions.
You see I love this company and its people.
It and they are unique and special not just to me but to the entire steel industry and in all of American manufacturing.
For more than 20 years in total the past 12 of which have been spent as its President and CEO it’s been my great honor and privilege to work for and to lead AK Steel.
But no one does this alone.
It takes a team and we have a very fine team at AK Steel.
I simply could not have done what I did without the tremendous support of our Board of Directors and I thank them nor could I have done what I did without the finest management team and workforce in the steel business and to all of you who played a role in our company’s recovery and repositioning in the past 12 years I offer a heartfelt thank you.
I’ve got great confidence in the new senior leadership team that was selected by our Board of Directors.
Roger Newport is a fabulous choice to lead AK Steel as our company’s next CEO.
He’s got the vision the strategic focus and the tenacity necessary to lead our company.
I’m confident that Roger will do an excellent job in designing and executing our company’s strategy and that his leadership will help position the company for sustained success in the years ahead.
He’s do a terrific job as CEO and behalf of AK Steel’s employees our customers shareholders and our other important constituents.
Kirk Reich is a fantastic choice to serve as the company’s next President and COO.
He embraces our company’s culture our heritage and tradition of manufacturing some of the finest quality carbon stainless electrical steels available anywhere in the world.
I’ve great confidence that Kirk will do an excellent job in his new roles while maintaining the company’s leading focus on safety quality and productivity measures and serving customers better than any other steelmaker.
I’ve worked very closely with each of these gentlemen for a number of years.
We’re fortunate to have them both at our company as they are among the very best in the steel business.
They’re doing an outstanding job for the company today and I’ve got no doubt that they’ll do an outstanding job of leading AK Steel from the top two slots starting in 2016.
As for me I’m not going far as I’ll remain on AK Steel’s Board of Directors as Chairman of the Board a role that I have held since 2006 albeit going forward it will be in a nonexecutive capacity.
I look forward to helping guide the company and the days ahead under the direction of our new CEO and our new President and COO each of whom I wish my heartiest congratulations and best wishes for success.
With that let me turn it over to Roger Newport and he’s currently our Executive VP and CFO and soon to be our next CEO.
Roger? Thank you Jim.
As Jim previewed earlier AK Steel reported a net profit of 6.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2015 which was better than our guidance of a loss of $0.02 to $0.07 per diluted share.
These results represent a substantial improvement compared to a net loss of 64 million or $0.36 per share for the second quarter of 2015.
Our results for the third quarter of 2015 exceeded our guidance as a result of solid cost performance partially offset by slightly lower than expected LIFO credit.
Our shipments of 1 871 000 tons for the third quarter of 2015 represent an increase of 60 000 tons or about a 3% improvement over the second quarter of 2015 and our shipments were slightly better than our guidance.
Our improved shipments quarter-over-quarter were primarily the result of increased shipments to the automotive market.
However our total shipments continued to be weighed down by excess fuel supply in the United States resulting from high levels of what we believe are unfairly traded imports.
As Jim mentioned overall steel demand remains pretty solid in the United States and our carbon and stainless shipments to the automotive market remains strong in the third quarter of 2015.
Our average selling price for the third quarter was $912 per ton.
This was $19 per ton or about 2% lower than our average selling price for the second quarter and in line with our guidance.
This decline was mostly due to pricing pressures related to the weak carbon steel spot market price environment partially offset by some improvements in the electrical steel spot market.
Revenues for the third quarter exceeded $1.7 billion.
This was slightly higher than our second quarter sales.
This increase was driven by the higher level of shipments including continuing strong automotive shipments partially offset by lower carbon steel spot market pricing.
Raw material costs were lower in the third quarter compared to the second quarter particularly for iron ore pellets carbon scrap and coke.
We incurred 11.8 million of planned maintenance outage cost in the third quarter of 2015 down about $6 million compared to the $18 million spent on planned maintenance outages in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we recorded a LIFO credit of 44.8 million compared to a LIFO credit of 34.8 million for the second quarter.
The higher LIFO credit was primarily driven by the continued decline in raw material costs.
I would also like to take a moment to provide you with a comparison of our earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization or EBITDA adjusted to exclude our non-controlling interest consisting primarily of SunCoke Middletown that are in our operating results.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2015 was $120 million or $64 per ton.
This represented an improvement of $72.4 million or $38 per ton compared to the second quarter of 2015.
The primary driver of this increase was our lower cost performance especially raw material costs and lower operating costs.
These savings were partially offset by lower carbon steel spot market prices.
We are pleased with our performance in such a challenging steel market environment.
As Jim mentioned we will continue to focus on lowering our cost to help mitigate some of the market impacts.
Moving to our results for the first nine months of 2015 revenues were more than $5.1 billion an increase of approximately $642 million or 14% compared to the first nine months of 2014 and this was primarily due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works.
Shipments for the first nine months of 2015 were 5 433 000 tons an increase of roughly 1.3 million tons or 32% compared to the first nine months of 2014.
Once again this increase was mostly due to the acquisition of Dearborn Works as well as the continued strength in the automotive market.
Our average selling price for the first nine months of 2015 was $947 per ton a decrease of $146 per ton or roughly 13% compared to the first nine months of 2014.
This decrease was primarily attributable to lower carbon steel spot market selling prices in 2015 which was driven by the dramatic increase in low priced foreign steel imports.
Moving from sales to our operations we incurred approximately $44 million of planned maintenance outage cost during the first nine months of 2015 about 10 million higher than we expended during the first nine months of 2014.
However 2015 has been a much better year than 2014 in terms of unplanned outage.
That’s a credit to our operators.
Last year as a result of incidents at our Ashland Works blast furnace in the first nine months of 2014 we incurred unplanned outages of $41 million and we incurred about $45 million in costs related to the extreme winter weather conditions.
At the bottom line for the first nine months of 2015 we reported an adjusted net loss of $107.3 million or $0.61 per share.
This compares to an adjusted net loss of $85.8 million or $0.61 per share for the first nine months of 2014.
Our adjusted results for the first nine months of 2015 exclude a charge of $256 million or $1.44 per share to fully impair our investment in the Magnetation joint venture.
Our adjusted results for the first nine months of 2014 exclude expenses of 24.6 million or $0.18 per share related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the third quarter our capital investments totaled approximately $21 million bringing our capital investments year-to-date to $70 million.
I would note that given the current market conditions we have prudently adjusted our expected capital investments for 2015 from 150 million to approximately 120 million.
In the third quarter our continued focus on working capital resulted in working capital being a source of cash of $68 million.
For the first nine months of 2015 working capital was a source of cash of approximately $112 million.
Turning to our debt position.
In the third quarter we were presented with unsolicited opportunities to repurchase certain of our outstanding debt.
After careful consideration and with our solid liquidity position we decided to take advantage of the low price and we repurchased 12.5 million in par value of our senior unsecured notes at a substantial discount.
Year-to-date we have purchased $15 million in par value of our unsecured notes at a composite price of approximately 67 representing a gain of approximately $4.7 million.
I would note that we were also able to reduce our credit facility borrowings in the third quarter by $45 million which reflects the second sequential quarter of reducing our borrowings.
In regards to liquidity we increased our liquidity position in the third quarter by $21 million and we ended the third quarter of 2015 with solid liquidity of $821 million despite the challenging steel market conditions we have faced this year.
As we have previously disclosed we anticipated substantially lower cash requirements in 2015 than we faced in 2014 for a variety of reasons including significantly lower pension funding requirements.
Our pension funding requirements for 2015 were $24.1 million.
We funded $1 million in the first quarter and the remaining $23 million contribution was completed in the third quarter.
More importantly we have no pension funding requirements in 2016 and based on actuarial assumptions as of the beginning of the year and pension funding regulations we estimate that we will have no pension funding requirements in 2017.
I would note that actuarial funding requirements for 2017 and beyond will be determined by various actuarial assumptions as well as the actual pension asset investment returns.
So from a liquidity perspective we believe we are in a very good position.
We have liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs and we have no near-term debt maturities.
As a reminder our nearest debt maturity is our senior secured notes that are due in December of 2018.
More importantly we continue to focus on lowering our costs and optimizing our operations to enhance cash flows so that we can further reduce our debt levels.
I also want to take a moment to update you on our cost-based synergies related to the acquisition of Dearborn.
We are very pleased with our progress on these synergies and the savings from such items as quality improvements transportation benefits overhead reductions and yield enhancements and we are meeting or exceeding our expectations in all areas.
As Jim mentioned our year-to-date synergies through the first nine months totaled approximately $43 million.
And this synergy is without the benefit of our previously anticipated volume-based synergies since we have actually had to reduce our operating levels due to the surge of carbon steel imports.
We’re continuing to identify additional synergy opportunities and we expect to obtain the volume-related cost synergies when market conditions improve.
Taking all this into consideration we continue to be very well-positioned to serve the needs of our customers and our operations going forward.
Before moving to the guidance I would like to also take this opportunity to update you on the status of the three carbon steel trade cases we are involved in.
The initial review of all three trade cases has been completed by the International Trade Commission which have made preliminary determinations that the domestic industry is suffering injury as a result of imports from the named countries.
A Commerce Department is currently conducting investigations to determine if producers from named countries are violating U.S.
antidumping law by selling their products at less than fair value in the United States and are violating U.S.
countervailing duty law by selling steel that benefits from unfair government subsidies.
Assuming these cases proceed as successfully as we expect they will the next key milestone will be on November 2 with the determination of the preliminary countervailing duty for the corrosion-resistant trade case.
At that point importers of record will be required to post cash deposits to cover duties for those products.
Turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015 as is our practice we intend to provide financial guidance in December.
However at this time we believe it is appropriate to provide the following qualitative guidance.
We anticipate lower carbon steel pricing in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter due principally to the high level of low price foreign steel imports that has continued to be imported into the United States as well as recent declines in carbon scrap prices.
As a result of these low price imports and their impact on the current market environment we also expect lower carbon steel spot market shipments in the fourth quarter as we expect to reduce shipments rather than sell into the current low price environment.
We expect our planned maintenance outages in the fourth quarter to be about half of what they were in the third quarter and we do not have any major blast furnace maintenance outages planned for the balance of the year.
Now before taking your questions since this is Jim’s last quarterly investor conference call I would like to thank Jim for his leadership of our company over the past 20 plus years and especially for his leadership as President and CEO over the last 12 years.
During the past couple of decades Jim led the company through some very challenging times and we are a better company as a result of this leadership.
Kirk and I look forward to taking over the reign from Jim.
While we recognize that we are facing many challenges in our industry we look forward to taking on these challenges head-on and moving AK Steel forward to enhance value for all of our constituents.
So let me conclude my comments by saying thank you for your interest in AK Steel and thank you to Jim for your leadership and your continued leadership going forward.
At this time we would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Newport.
We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of our conference call.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
I have a question on the steel trade cases.
Over what period of time is the Commerce Department looking to determine these tariffs? It is over a three-year period is what they’re looking at.
And when is the ending point? The ending point is based on when they filed in effect so you’re looking back at the quarterly information so the prior quarter to the final.
So Mike just to expand on that for a minute the final duties as we understand them of course all these things are subject to change as we find out from time-to-time would be anywhere from June through September of 2016 but there a lot of activities ahead of that including activities just around the corner November 2 for coated for the preliminary countervailing duties determination.
And as Roger said it starts to get some teeth when people have to start to post the bond and money for the amounts.
These duties could be several hundred percent.
At least in my view undoubtedly it’s going to have a significant impact on supply and on pricing although to date it hasn’t and I would argue it hasn’t because the teeth really haven’t been there yet.
And Mike I would comment when you look at the periods the focus is going to be on the more recent when the imports started coming up.
As you’re aware they started rising here late last year and continued to rise and peaked at about 34% of our market earlier this year.
So those will be the main focus areas but it does have to look by period.
I was just curious because since you filed the cases pricing has taken another big leg down.
Are they not looking at that period as well? One comment if you look at the trade cases so far there’s really been no penalty yet.
As Jim mentioned the first case on uncoated steels is November 2.
We do have the critical circumstances that were requested which would have a 90-day look back.
But when you look at the cold rolled and hot rolled cases currently the cold rolled case we’re looking for the preliminary duties on December 15 and on the hot rolled in January.
So there’s not a lot of teeth yet behind the trade cases because effective November 2 assuming the duties come out at that point that’s when they as Jim said have to post the duties for that.
So part of it is you got to get there and unfortunately just the way the process work it’s a long drawn-out process when you look at the imports started coming in in the second half of last year.
We’re not looking at getting the first duties here in November.
And then last question assuming you get a positive ruling or a negative ruling how does your planning change going forward under those two scenarios? I think looking out to see what impact the trade cases have on us and what it does to the marketplace there’s a lot of factors out there driving the marketplace.
The oversupply that’s globally out there especially related to China.
What happens in the scrap market which is a driver here domestically for steel prices seeing what happens there.
And then as Jim mentioned what we believe will be the benefits of the trade cases.
As he had commented on in his prepared remarks we did issue the warning notice down at Ashland.
That means that we currently are looking at temporary idling the facility and decisions on those types of things will be evaluated also based on what happens with the marketplace.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Evan Kurtz of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
So I guess before I ask my first question just wanted to say best wishes Jim.
Whatever your future endeavors may be wish you the best.
And Roger Kirk looking forward to working with you guys going forward.
Big news this morning.
So my first question for you is on Ashland.
Can you give us some color just a little bit on what the shutdown cost might be initially and what happens to those over time? When does the shutdown of Ashland actually become a benefit on the cost line? Is that for second quarter? How do we think about that? Thanks.
I’ll start with maybe the rationale for it and certainly the terrible market conditions that Roger and Jim spoke of.
We’re just in a position where it just doesn’t make sense to continue to operate at the low levels we’ve been operating all of our furnaces.
And so we’ll get the operational efficiency from the other two furnaces and temporary idle the Ashland facility until we see the market rebound and conditions change that would warrant doing something different there.
In regards to the financial implications it’s too early to give guidance at this point.
As we indicated we gave this notice on October 16 that we are looking at temporary idling the facility in mid-December.
It could last more than six months.
It will only be driven by the market conditions.
And we will bring the furnace and operations down in an orderly manner so we can bring it back up all ready and market conditions are there to support it.
So in regards to any 4Q charges all I would say is there would be some charges to bring down the facility and then we would also have to accrue what we would see as unemployment type related benefit costs and that would be dependent on how long we believe that it will be down.
Maybe just on that I guess on the employee side so you take a severance hit in the initial quarter when you do this.
Do you have to continue to pay a certain percentage of those salaries while the mill is down? And if so what’s the level that that falls to? No the employees basically – under their union contract there is supplemental unemployment benefits that they get along with the unemployment benefits they would get with the state and other benefits that they get in accordance to the labor agreement.
Got it okay that’s helpful.
And then my other question really just is on contracts rolling off.
I think I was surprised by how well pricing came in for this quarter and I was kind of debating whether that was electrical steel moving up or whether that was just maybe some carbon contracts or coated contracts that had just been – hadn’t rolled over yet.
Could you maybe just give us a sense of which quarters you have the bulk of contract resets hit at this point? I know it used to always be in the first quarter but I guess that’s spread out over the years.
Is there still a big chunk that’s going to hit on Jan 1? There is a chunk that hits on Jan 1 there is a chunk that hits on April 1 and there’s chunks that sort of hit throughout the year Evan is what I would say.
The prices these days are typically established for a year period a 12-month duration and that’s just fine with us because we anticipate that prices will be going back up as the market returns to any sense of normalcy here.
But I wouldn’t necessarily guide you that the majority or a large percentage of any one quarter and that’s sort of intentional.
We’ve looked at this as really a portfolio approach as have our customers.
And I think our customers don’t want all their deals coming up at one point nor do we.
So the key really is to continue to build on those relationships provide them with what they need do the best job.
Make sure that they know we’re selling value not just price and we’ll continue to differentiate ourselves in those fashions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tony Rizzuto of Cowen and Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
Hi gentlemen.
Commendable job in an extremely challenging environment.
And Jim seems that for too much of your tenure as CEO it’s been a challenging environment so congrats.
Thank you very much Tony.
You’re welcome.
Congrats to you and your team for your successes.
And Roger and Kirk congrats on your new responsibilities too.
So I just wanted to focus on cost a little bit and Jim you made the comments about redoubling efforts and a lot of low hanging fruit has been picked.
So just trying to get a better sense of how you’re looking at your portfolio now and I think I heard a number of $60 million that were kind of controllable cost that you’re targeting taking out.
I think that was separate if I heard correctly from what you’re doing at Dearborn.
I’m wondering how much further do you think you can go to reduce kind of the fixed – the sustainable costs the structural costs in your system? Can you give us some sense of what’s out there? As I said cost is the enemy of profitability particularly in an environment like we’re in.
We’ve had any number of downturns and you’ve cited several during my tenure right at the company.
So you’re right about that.
We’ve got some experience.
It’s interesting and perhaps just coincidental that the 60 million rough number for both Dearborn synergies and what we’re doing inside the company this year are the same but there has to be more.
And look when you spend about roughly $8 billion on whether it’s raw materials and energy whether it’s on other alloys and people and so forth you have to really step back and look at those things and really the challenge that I’ve given to the senior team here is to take further costs out.
We have set certain targets.
I won’t really expose those today and it really falls into Kirk’s and Roger’s hands to make those things happen now.
But how much more is there is yet to be determined and I think it really depends on the severity of the situation that we face.
But it’s not tens of millions.
I would like to think it’s hundreds of millions.
Kirk do you want to comment? Yes.
As Jim said those are separate buckets.
The 60 million is what we’re – we’re on a run rate to do that this year.
As Jim said there was more there.
Those are operational efficiencies.
They are improvements to how we run our business on a day-to-day basis that look at getting cost out.
It’s purchasing savings.
It’s yield savings.
There is increments of those kinds of pieces in that 60 million number and there’s more there.
And as Jim said we’re not at low hanging fruit anymore.
We’re reaching higher branches but there’s still fruit there.
There’s still pieces that we can pull off without harming the company and without doing damage that are just plain the right thing to do and it’s really how we do our business.
And that’s an addition to the 58 million that we’re on a run rate for our synergies in Dearborn and that’s just simply improving the business really across every facet as we set out to do when we began.
And we found that it’s certainly there and there’s a lot more to go at Dearborn as well and we expect to continue to make those kind of strides.
Could this involve then further plant reconfiguration and as you look at the portfolio more deeply the possible exit from certain products or markets? Sure absolutely.
That’s exactly what we’re looking at.
As Jim said before every plant every operation is being considered and we’ve got to come up with a way to differentiate our company.
And certainly producing all commoditized product isn’t that way.
And so to that extent we are considering any and all of those options and we’ll continue to evaluate those and implement the things that make sense going forward.
Tony we’re looking both at the operation side but also looking at the products we sell and the markets we sell to and what makes sense for us long term.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Justine Fisher of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
How you’re doing? Hi Justine.
Congrats to everybody to Jim on the retirement and to Roger and Kirk on the promotions.
My first question is just a follow up to Tony’s on cost.
So when you guys talk about 60 million all in this year versus all in last year what kind of base you’re going to be thinking about? Well I guess really the question is – the question that we’re getting asked from investors is assuming the current cost structure with whatever progress you’ve made on that 60 million can the company be EBITDA positive at a $400 hot rolled price? I’ll comment on the cost side.
We’re referring to as how we did versus last year so we’re looking at how we can take cost out.
So we’re very focused on that.
We continue to be focused on that day-in and day-out month-in and month-out.
An example as Kirk mentioned it’s a lot of different things.
It’s how you’re running your operations how you’re burdening your blast furnace how you’re running your melt shops everything transportation costs looking at everything and identifying opportunities from the cost side.
So we are looking at everything and as you have the volatility going on in all the commodities markets whether it’s iron ore it’s scrap it’s natural gas coal prices et cetera you’re always looking at how do I end up ultimately getting the lowest cost flat to my operations and that’s really what we focus on when we’re looking at our businesses.
How I bring out the lowest cost product? And then on the finishing side how do we continue to optimize there? So I wouldn’t give comment on a selling price that’s in a spot market because it also depends on the cost side where the raw material costs are where scrap is where iron ore is where coal cost are and coke costs natural gas et cetera.
So I wouldn’t say there’s a number that says you can or can’t generate certain amounts or levels of earnings.
But we are very focused realizing short term.
It’s challenging times especially because the trade cases are still to come and that we’re facing the challenges of all the imports and the low pricing and low scrap.
But we are very focused on -- And you can’t forget about these things both stainless and electrical which are very good markets for us as well.
Right.
I mean I guess maybe if we assume that we hold the raw materials prices constant which I know doesn’t happen but they’re pretty low.
I mean nickel prices are pretty low scrap prices are pretty low.
If we assume the raw materials stay relatively constant but the hot rolled stays at 400 do you think it’s possible – can the company be EBITDA positive at that level? I wouldn’t comment on that.
I wouldn’t be earnings projections but I would say that we got a good product mix; carbon stainless electrical steel products.
We’re focused on lowering costs.
I would say that one and assumption that something is going to stay at a certain level in the commodities market I would never believe because I’ve been in the business 30 years and I can tell you one thing it’s going to happen in the future it’s going to be volatile.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Bradford of Bradford Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chuck.
Good luck.
We’ve been hearing a lot of noise around the industry in Asia about upcoming negotiations for electrical steels especially the high end which apparently is really tight especially the market as you mentioned in Europe but also Japan and the discussion seems to involve you guys for the most part and whether or not you’ll go for $300 to $500 when you start negotiating for next year.
Is that a conceivable number? So we are a very large domestic and global player in the electrical steel market.
Things are looking up in that market.
I mean just to Justine’s question fortunately we’re 10% hot rolled guys or something like that.
If we were 90% hot rolled guys I think it’s a different – we’re a significant player in the electrical steel market.
That market continues to recover domestically and overseas.
We are indeed getting higher prices in the spot market.
We’re in the midst of negotiations with our contract customers as we speak and we’re not shy about seeking higher prices.
Can we talk for a minute about stainless? If our chrome prices haven’t come down all that much I guess recently about $0.04 a pound but the stainless price seems to have come down more.
Is there some reason for that? I’m not talking about yours I’m talking in a general sense.
Well I think there’s a couple of things.
One pricing has come down due to imports probably in most countries where people are trying to move stainless.
The only other thing is the nickel content or nickel price has come down also so the surcharges associated with stainless have come down quite a bit too.
So we’re not a major player in the commodity chrome nickel business.
Our focus is more on annual contract business niche markets that we make out of our – niche products that we make out of our [indiscernible] facility that are more specialty type grade and not a big player in the commodity market.
So yes the commodity side has definitely been impacted by the overcapacity and the falling nickel prices.
I was focusing frankly more on the 409 which does not have the nickel in it but it seems like that hasn’t done all that well despite somewhat lower chrome prices? I’ll say the bulk of our auto chrome business the 400 series is in automotive markets so that is annual contract business.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timna Tanners of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about what kind of SG&amp;A run rate we should get in light of the savings because we haven’t seen a lot come out since Dearborn was acquired? And also what you expect for working capital? Is there more that you squeeze there as well? In regards to SG&amp;A I wouldn’t give a run rate at this point but we’re very focused on taking out costs.
Some of that could be impacted on what our ultimate determination is related to Ashland and the timing of that and the length of that so that’s an impact out there.
We’re always focused on taking out costs.
We got a lot of cost taken out on the overhead side when we acquired Dearborn and have had a lot of synergies not just related to Dearborn but how we’ve been able to reduce our overhead costs as a total company.
And on the working capital front we’re always focused on reducing working capital.
As you saw in our numbers that we’ve reported so far we’ve taken working capital down about $112 million so far so we have made a lot of progress.
We’ve actually looked at the last two quarters have been substantial improvement and our focus is to continue to do that as we go forward with our business.
Part of it will – the implications of what happens with Ashland can have some impact on that but our focus is every year at a minimum to be working capital neutral however this year working capital has been a big source.
Last year it was actually used because of a decline in the markets.
We ended with higher levels of raw materials than we originally expected to and we’ve been able to work our way through those higher levels of inventories and get those out of the system.
But I can tell you we’re very focused on continuing to improve working capital from every aspect.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I just wanted to ask obviously you’ve had these big LIFO incomes quarterly increasing with the lower prices and assuming also part of your lower inventories that you’ve been holding.
So I’m looking at 125 million 130 million run rate for this year which implies a kind of drop off at current levels into the fourth quarter on LIFO like something in the order of 10 million to 20 million.
If prices stay here if volumes are flat is there anything to offset that LIFO income reversal? Can you talk to that? I’ll comment on our LIFO.
Year-to-date we’re about $97 million so if you look at there’s about $33 million a month on average.
So assuming per quarter on average so assuming that would carry forward that’s the type of number you would see annualized because we’re taking 75% of LIFO credit.
And really what’s going to drive that is we’d have some raw material primarily on the scrap side because iron ore is pretty much fixed now for pricing.
We know what coal prices are because that’s the annual contracts.
So really the biggest driver is a little bit on the energy side mostly on the scrap side.
As you’re aware Timna the scrap did fall here in October quite a bit which there’s a good a bad to that.
The good is it lowered our cost the bad is it also takes down your spot market pricing.
So the LIFO benefit that helps from that side but unfortunately gets the negative side on the pricing front.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Aldo Mazzaferro of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Hi Roger how are you? Okay.
A couple of questions on the product mix in the fourth quarter.
I know in the past when you reduced your hot rolled coil shipments there’s been a beneficial impact on the average selling price.
And I know you said in your general guidance that you expect the average selling price of carbon spot to decline but you didn’t say anything about the average selling price overall in your mix.
So I’m wondering is there a chance that the mix could improve and offset the carbon spot? You might see another kind of surprisingly strong average selling price in the fourth quarter? I’ll just comment there that we do see that we will have lower spot market pricing.
As you’re aware although our products that we sell are carbon stainless and electrical so carbon is lower priced just because of the product that it is.
And that we would see selling less of that into the spot market so therefore assuming everything else staying the same you’re average selling price would rise as a result of just the difference in product mix.
Great.
And then a related question Roger on the – previously when you cut your hot rolled coil you gain that benefit on average selling price but you’ve given up something on the fixed overhead cost per ton on the remaining volume right so you have essentially lower tons on the same fixed cost.
Now that if Ashland could be fixed or closed is that enough to allow you to cut your hot rolled coil volume to a point where it maybe half of what on average and yet not lose the efficiency on the rest of the product mix? Yes I won’t comment on exactly what percent I would reduce it but that’s exactly what we would intend to do.
You wouldn’t take it out unless the net was a benefit but I think you’ve hit on a very key point.
There are costs that sort of hang around and you’ve got to get rid of them.
And we’re looking hard at this and we’ll have more to say very soon.
And as Kirk mentioned if we do something at Ashland for example we will get some benefits at other facilities too.
So when you’re running not full everywhere currently by idling Ashland you gain efficiencies at your other facilities that helps you too.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Melissa Tan of R.
W.
Pressprich.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question and again congratulations to the management team.
First question is relating to the utilization rate for the company’s various plans.
If we’re thinking excluding Ashland we’re not including that for the second half of December and also in the first half of 2016 what would the company be comfortable with the utilization level? In the third quarter it was definitely high in the 80s and the last few quarters it was high 70s and low 80s? Yes actually third quarter was probably right at about 80% for us and fourth quarter we’re projecting will be about 76%.
And I’ll comment there on the -- Ashland in the mix -- Ashland obviously.
And also I would comment on utilization rates because it really depends on the product mix and how we’re running our operations and how much stainless versus electrical versus carbon so that does also have an impact.
And really what you’re total availability that you have and calculate that.
And the intent would be that the utilization rate if you project to a first quarter and Ashland is idle that that should drive the utilization rate higher.
Those facilities would be more utilized fuller.
Excluding Ashland.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And the second one has to do with your pensions.
I know previously on the calls you mentioned into – both 2016 and 2017 you don’t expect any sort of expense but this time you mentioned only '17.
And also related to the press release the corridor charge just trying to get an idea what that could be because over the last couple of years there was a big swing in terms of that number into 2014 and 2012? Sure.
In regards to the pension I think what you’re talking there was pension funding and we had 24 million we put in this year.
We will have no contribution to 2016.
And based on the assumptions that we had for 2017 we do not expect any contributions but that will only be driven on primarily what happens with the financial markets and the pension assets so we don’t see anything on that any volatility because interest rates for funding purposes are based on a 25-year smoothing [ph].
So interest rates really are not a big driver there.
In regards to the corridor that’s really just driven by what happens on two things; what happens with interest rates.
For accounting purposes you look at what is your interest rate on December 31 of each year.
It doesn’t matter what it was any other point in time of the year.
You look at what it was at the end on that date and that will determine the liability that is on your books.
Currently we have seen interest rates actually rise a little bit throughout this year since the beginning of the year since the end of last year which is favorable which would lower our liability on our books.
However it just depends on what’s the return on the pension assets and if those would happen to have a weaker performance than expected.
That’s where you get into the corridor.
But I would comment the corridor charge is a P&amp;L item it’s a non-cash item.
It has nothing to do with cash funding of it or anything else.
And even when you look at the discount rate that’s used to calculate our liabilities on our balance sheet that is not what is used to determine what you have to do for pension funding.
So really that is just what’s done on our books.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brett Levy of CRT Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
First off Jim congratulations on 20 years of accomplishments in a tough environment.
And Roger and Kirk congratulations on your promotions.
I wanted to ask a little bit about Ashland and sort of the impact on customers.
Are there any customers that are sort of not transferrable to Dearborn or Middletown in terms of qualifications and that sort of thing? And is it safe to assume that essentially you’re going to try to protect all the contracts and let some of the spot volumes slip as a result of the Ashland idling? Yes that’s exactly right.
That’s the plan we would go about doing.
And yes you were correct in that the assumption is and our plan is that no one contract customer would be impacted.
We do not have any customers that are in Ashland only type of product mix from a melt shop standpoint.
A reminder we are planning on keeping the coating line at Ashland operating to avoid any of those kind of customer issues and the coating line is fully utilized as a result of a strong automotive drop.
So we would not run into any of those type of issues in shifting our melt to Middletown or Dearborn.
And there’s no implications on the galvanizing line because today the coils are sent from Middletown down to Ashland to be coated so that would still continue.
All right.
And then I’m not sure if I’m venturing into stuff that you can’t talk much about but I think a lot of the capacity from Magnetation was going to Ashland.
Can you guys talk a little bit about kind of iron ore supply plans going forward in the context of a Ashland idling? Yes.
Actually our Magnetation you’re right previously was going the majority to Ashland.
It’s now going to Middletown and being consumed in that furnace.
And the same volumes right.
That’s right.
Okay.
That was my follow up.
Congrats to all.
Thanks.
Thank you Brett very much.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Phil Gibbs of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jim I’ve always thought of your company as very lean in good and bad times alike and you’re citing hundreds of millions of dollars in terms of magnitude of potential cost savings and obviously I think everybody’s dancing around the same question.
I guess one where will we see that kind of magnitude to savings.
And secondarily if you could give us at all any color on what Ashland’s fixed costs are at least the ballpark for their steelmaking operations that would be helpful? We think we’re pretty lean.
I think if you look at it from really any vantage point we get more from the equipment we get better.
Our man hours per ton particularly when you look at the products all of that fairs very very well.
I think you have to step back and you have to say when the markets get to where they’ve gotten here with prices being off 40% with pressures from the contract side of the business we’ve got to do everything that we can as a management team as a company and we can’t do it alone either.
We’ve got to do it with our supply base and with wherever cost resides to get even leaner and that’s the focus.
So I think we’ve done a good job.
We’ve got to do a better job and it’s all really in light of the effects and circumstances that we face.
And we’ve had a very resilient and a very resourceful management team that has responded to the challenges in the past.
I’ve every confidence that they will going forward.
You look at really where our cost reside and again the majority of them reside in raw materials and energy.
They reside in terms of our conversion costs they reside in terms of their consumables and they reside in terms of the people and benefits.
And so those are all areas that we’ll once again look at when quantifying any one of them or give you specific targets.
I will tell you that to find hundreds of millions is not an easy task and there is a degree of pain and that certainly involves some of the key decisions that I’ll be involved with and that the new leaders of the company are going to take on as well.
Okay.
So listen ladies and gentlemen let me just wrap up then.
Thank you for the great questions.
Thank you for your interest and your attention today.
On behalf of all of us at AK Steel we wish you the very best for a great day a better tomorrow and significantly better times ahead.
And to my fellow AK Steel associates keep believing.
I assure you you’ll keep succeeding onward and upward until we meet again.
Thank you all very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and you may disconnect at this time.
Have a great day everyone.