Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Barry Sievert.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Glen and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income and interest expense information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the Morningstar divestiture and those related to our former subsidiary The WhiteWave Foods Company.
In addition pro forma adjustments have been made to our 2012 results to reflect transactions between our former segments under our current commercial agreements that went into effect upon completion of the WhiteWave IPO in October 2012 rather than under the intercompany agreements that were in effect throughout the majority of 2012.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings leverage ratios network optimization plans and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements might made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with an update on the recent disposition of our remaining WhiteWave shares and a review of Dean Foods second quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thanks Barry and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As I'm sure you've seen from the press release overall results for the second quarter came in as forecasted.
But before getting into the results I'd like to provide an update on the final step in our efforts to unlock shareholder value through the recent disposition of our remaining interest in WhiteWave foods.
As previously discussed we spun off 67% of WhiteWave Foods outstanding common stock in May of this year.
Upon completion of that transaction we retained 34.4 million shares of Class A common stock of WhiteWave.
At the end of July we completed our disposition of our residual stake in WhiteWave in a tax-free debt-for-equity exchange resulting in $589 million of net proceeds for Dean Foods.
All of the proceeds will be available for general corporate purposes including reducing Dean Foods' net debt position and offsetting the tax payments associated with the Morningstar transaction.
The successful execution of this transaction represents the completion of the separation of WhiteWave from Dean Foods.
We are very pleased to have completed the strategic realignment of Dean Foods which is unlocked latent value in this business.
This value unlock helped deliver almost $2 billion or an 84% increase in shareholder value over the past year since we announced the WhiteWave IPO in August of 2012.
I'm also pleased that we have been able to significantly focus our business and strengthen our balance sheet in the process providing us significant financial flexibility going forward.
But turning to the second quarter.
As I said the results were in line with our forecast and guidance despite a challenging environment.
We are making progress in our efforts to reduce costs and drive efficiencies.
These efforts offset much of the volume deleveraging associated with the transition of the private label fluid milk volumes we lost in the recent RFP with a large customer that we have discussed on previous earnings calls.
We produced operating income of $65 million compared to $72 million in Q2 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparable basis.
This drove net income of $24 million and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.13 per share as compared to our guidance of $0.11 to $0.15 per share.
Our net debt position increased during the quarter as we paid the first installment of the tax bill related to the sale of the Morningstar business.
This will be more than offset in the third quarter with the proceeds from the successful disposition of the WhiteWave shares in July.
The transition of volumes to other providers related to the partial business loss with our large customer combined with general category weakness resulted in total volumes including fluid milk ice cream cultured and other products of 703 million gallons for the quarter.
This represents a 6% decline from 748 million gallons in Q2 of 2012 on a pro forma and comparative basis.
As we exit Q2 the transition of the vast majority of volume is complete.
Within the fluid milk specifically industry category volumes declined approximately 2.1% on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods.
On this same unadjusted basis our fluid milk volume declined 6%.
To put the decline into perspective it's important to note that roughly 2/3 of the decline in our fluid milk and total volume this quarter is attributable to previously disclosed business losses related to the customer RFP and a customer's decision to vertically integrate late last year.
The balance of the decline is related to the general category softness in fluid milk and other categories.
Excluding these onetime losses we believe our underlying performance continue to outpace the category.
Overall weakness in large-format retail is offsetting solid growth in food service and small format channels.
As a result our share of the overall U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined approximately 140 basis points from Q1 to 36.4% while our share on the branded milk category increased slightly.
We continue to focus on strengthening our volumes at margin-appropriate pricing levels and recent wins will begin positively impacting our volumes in the fourth quarter.
However we continue to expect our volumes to underperform the broader industry through the balance of the year due to the ongoing impact of the lost business.
On a year-to-date basis our total milk volumes have declined 5%.
Considering category trends in the second quarter and the impact of the lost volume over the rest of the year we now expect our full year fluid milk volumes to decline in the mid-single digits.
Our national flavored milk brand TruMoo continued to outperform its category at retail.
Even as we lap the strong 10% growth from the second quarter of 2012 TruMoo retail volume sales increased 1.4% in this year's second quarter compared to flat overall category growth.
Retailers continue to price private label milk at levels consistent with historical norms with the margin over milk or the spread between the Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons at approximately $1.57 per gallon compared to $1.58 per gallon in the previous quarter and $1.74 per gallon in Q2 of 2012.
Average price gaps between our brands and private label in Q2 declined slightly from Q1 and were in line with year ago levels.
For the quarter Class I raw milk prices declined a bit in April before rising in both May and June resulting in a modest decrease in the quarterly average from Q1 levels.
The increase in the month of June was particularly pronounced with the Class I price rising more than $1 per hundredweight from May to June.
On average the Class I price in the quarter was 1% lower than the previous quarter and 16% above year ago levels.
We continue to view the fundamentals for raw milk in the U.S.
market as relatively balanced at these levels for the remainder of the year.
We believe solid supply growth ample inventories and continued modest domestic demand is somewhat offset by the increased global demand for milk powder.
Given this we expect Class I prices to remain relatively in line with current levels.
Consistent with our core business strategy we continued to focus on efficiency and cost reduction.
Our accelerated cost reduction efforts include the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants through mid-2014.
As part of this initiative we have closed or have announced the upcoming closure of 8 facilities since we began ramping up activities late last year.
This includes yesterday's announcement of the closure of one of our Denver facilities.
We only began realizing a small amount of the savings from these closures in the first half of the year.
We have strong momentum behind these initiatives and expect increased savings over the balance of the year and into 2014.
In Q2 we also significantly reduced our distribution and SG&amp;A costs helping to offset the majority of the volume deleverage and to deliver the bottom line results.
This focus helped reduce SG&amp;A cost by $43 million in the second quarter from the year ago period.
Excluding advertising and incentive compensation SG&amp;A was $17 million below year ago levels.
We built on these cost savings with an $11 million decline in our distribution expense from Q2 of last year.
The rapid transition of volume as a result of the RFP created a significant volume headwind in Q2 particularly in the latter part of the quarter resulting in a 10% year-over-year decrease in operating income.
However we were encouraged by the fact that operating income per gallon decreased at a much slower rate indicating that our cost takeout initiatives have gained traction.
Operating income totaled $65 million for the quarter which is a decline of $7 million compared to the prior year quarter.
Overall Q2 results were consistent with our expectations despite a challenging environment that included additional category volume softness in large-format retail.
Our cost and efficiency initiatives are progressing.
And as we look ahead to 2014 and beyond we expect to offset volume deleverage through continued reduction of fixed costs.
With that I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thanks Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q2 results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance in the quarter.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L.
As Gregg noted volumes declined 6% in the quarter.
Although we are making progress in our cost-reduction initiatives including the closure of 8 to 12 plants the transition of these volumes out of our network resulted in fixed asset deleverage within the quarter particularly toward the end of the quarter when we experienced the bulk of the volume transition.
This drove a year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $61 million or 11%.
An $11 million reduction in distribution costs and a $43 million decline in SG&amp;A costs resulted in an operating income decline of $7 million or 10% to $65 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $105 million.
On an adjusted basis interest expense came in at $26 million for the quarter.
This in combination with our adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded adjusted diluted EPS of $0.13 for the quarter.
As of the end of the second quarter total net debt outstanding stood at approximately $1.2 billion.
Dean Foods' leverage ratio on June 30 as defined by our former credit agreement was 2.69x a significant decline from the 3.54x at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012.
The sharp decline is predominantly a result of the debt reduction driven by the proceeds received from the Morningstar sale offset by the June payment of $213 million or roughly 50% of the tax build associated with the gain on that sale.
We expect to make the large majority of the remaining associated tax payments in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Despite these additional payments our leverage will decline substantially in the third quarter due to the successful July tax remonetization of our remaining stake in WhiteWave Foods resulting in a $589 million in proceeds and leaving us at pro forma leverage as defined by our new credit agreement of approximately 2.07x net debt-to-EBITDA as of June 30.
The tax remonetization of our residual WhiteWave stake increases our balance sheet strength going forward.
Our objective remains to maintain a leverage ratio below 2.5x net funded debt-to-EBITDA as defined by our new credit agreement.
With the disposition of our remaining WhiteWave stake we are now below that level on a pro forma basis.
While dramatically reducing our debt load through the first half of this year we have continued to improve our capital structure in other ways as well.
In March and July we reset and extended the maturities of our AR facility and revolving credit facility to 2015 and 2018 respectively.
Year-to-date net cash used in continuing operations was $245 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $49 million resulting in free cash flow used in continuing operations of $294 million.
Negative free cash flow was primarily driven by the $213 million tax payment associated with the Morningstar sale.
The $30 million impact of moving Morningstar to external accounts receivable the $28 million interest rate swap termination fee associated with our Morningstar sale-driven debt reduction approximately $24 million of deal costs and our $19 million litigation payment as well as other onetime items primarily associated with the separation of Morningstar and WhiteWave from the business.
Excluding our remaining income tax payables we expect to generate positive adjusted free cash flow throughout the remainder of 2013.
On an adjusted basis which excludes the Morningstar tax payments as well as other onetime uses of cash associated with our strategic activities this year and litigation payments we continue to expect to deliver $75 million to $100 million of free cash flow in 2013.
We believe we will be able to substantially accelerate our free cash flow generation from this level over the coming years.
First we expect to average mid-single-digit EBIT growth as we continue to extend our competitive advantages and return to our history of share growth in fluid milk.
Second we have the opportunity to refinance some of our higher coupon debt.
At today's indicative rates refinancing a portion of our bonds would result in a substantial reduction in our annual cash interest expense.
We will continue to evaluate our options given the significant make-whole premiums associated with an early refinancing of our existing bonds.
And third as we move past our current phase of accelerated plant closures we anticipate a decline in our CapEx needs over time.
This year we expect to spend approximately $150 million to $175 million of CapEx.
2014 spend will likely be elevated as well compared to what we view as our base run rate of approximately $125 million to $150 million.
As we move past this phase of accelerated cost reduction we expect CapEx to trend towards this base level.
Combined we expect these opportunities to significantly increase our free cash flow in the years to come.
With our leverage now below our targeted level we plan to maintain status quo as it relates to free cash flow allocation throughout the balance of this year.
We think this is prudent as we move through this period of volume deleveraging and accelerated cost reduction.
However as we look forward we are now in a position to begin evaluating other uses of our cash flow to maximize shareholder value beyond debt repayment.
We expect to communicate our plans for go-forward free cash flow allocation before the end of the year.
With that I'll now turn the call back to Gregg for comments on our corporate strategy as well as a review of our forward outlook.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Our focus remains clear: we continue to work to extend our competitive advantage beginning with costs and efficiency.
We have accelerated these efforts including our plans to close 10% to 15% of the plants in our network.
We expect these efforts to offset the volume deleverage we are experiencing and to further differentiate us from our competitive set from an efficiency and productivity perspective.
Our advantaged cost position is important as we work to return to our long history of share gains.
I expect these category share gains combined with our portfolio of strong brands a significantly strengthened balance sheet industry-leading pricing tools and our uncompromising commitment to quality safety and service to provide the platform for our success going forward.
Turning to the forward outlook we believe that the momentum behind our cost reduction activities will enable us to deliver solid full year results.
This is despite a challenging environment that includes fluid milk category volumes that appear to be a bit softer than we originally anticipated.
The dairy commodity environment looks to be a neutral factor in our forecast.
Overall for the year we continue to expect to substantially offset the financial impact of the lower volumes through accelerated cost reduction and productivity resulting in a low single-digit increase in operating income from the pro forma 2012 results.
With this in mind we are narrowing our full year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS to a range of between $0.47 and $0.53.
Lower than previously forecast interest expense due to continued debt reduction is expected to help offset a modest decrease in our EBIT and EBITDA assumptions.
We now expect full year EBITDA to be between $410 million and $430 million.
With the full quarter impact of the RFP-related volume reduction impacting all of Q3 continued soft trends and normal seasonality in the business we expect the third quarter to be the most challenging of the year.
We expect adjusted diluted earnings of $0.05 to $0.08 per share.
We expect Q4 to be stronger than the third quarter due to a normal seasonal strength new business wins entering the system and accumulating benefits of our accelerated cost reduction initiatives.
In summary as expected Q2 was challenging.
However the hard work of our team to drive cost productivity delivered overall results largely in line with our forecast.
We are delivering on our initiatives and with our decreased interest expense and cost reduction momentum heading into the second half of the year we anticipate delivering earnings consistent with our initial full year guidance.
I want to again thank our employees for their hard work and focus on delivering the second quarter and the groundwork they are putting in place to drive our future success.
Part of that groundwork has been an unwavering commitment to safety which has resulted in fewer accidents and lower costs for Dean Foods.
To our investors I want to thank you for your continued interest and support of Dean Foods.
And with that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is really related to the full year guidance and the phasing in the second half.
And clearly you've called out the third quarter being the most challenging and then improving in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just wondering if you can go through in more details the drivers of the sequential improvement whether it's volume sequentially getting less bad the cost savings and whether you're assuming additional benefits in the fourth quarter from either debt refi or share buyback or any other benefits that you're assuming in the fourth quarter? Okay.
I would tell you Judy it's not the latter.
So I would start at the beginning of our expectation.
We have -- we are bringing on some new business that will start in the fourth quarter that obviously will help.
We also expect the acceleration of our cost reductions to start to take effect and continue to compound itself as we do more coming out of the third and fourth quarters.
So we do expect our costs to get better in the fourth quarter.
We also expect our volume to get better in the fourth quarter.
And I think the other piece of that is basically the seasonality.
The fourth quarter is always stronger for us than the third quarter.
Third quarter is usually a fairly difficult quarter for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess my follow-up is just from a capital allocation perspective what is kind of holding you back from announcing any kind of a capital return strategy sooner rather than later? So clearly the leverage has come down now to below 2x.
What do you need to sort of evaluate more as you come out with the announcement? And is there concern over the fundamentals in terms of volume or industry softness that gives you a little bit of a pause and really evaluating what that EBITDA generation could look like? No I don't think it's any hesitation around the category or the business itself.
I think it's more around the strategy as we better define what our longer-term strategy is and understanding that we had said from the beginning that we wanted to get below 2.5x and maintain that for some period of time.
And one quarter doesn't necessarily mean that you're there and everything is good although we anticipate that we will stay well below the 2.5.
But the other piece of that would be I think trying to understand all the trade-offs and what do we need around investment going forward because once we make that commitment from a shareholder perspective we don't want to ever look back.
And your next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask specifically how much the volume impact from this new business that's coming in Q4 will be? And then a broader question about the risk of further loss of contracts going forward how tough is it right now? And is there a lot of turn over and a lot of RFP activity going on out there? Yes I would tell you I'll start with the last question.
I think from an RFP perspective we're not seeing any incremental activity Alexia.
I think it's pretty much as we have seen.
It is extremely competitive and continues to be but has been for an extended time.
So we haven't seen any drop-off of that nor have we necessarily seen it continue to heat up anymore than normal.
As for the volume in the fourth quarter it's not going to -- we're not in any position yet to be specific about what it is because some of it will come in and some of it is still -- we're still anticipating that it will start in the fourth quarter.
So I'm not going to get into specifics around how much volume it is but it is -- it will be substantial when it's all said and done.
And your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Trying to understand second quarter trends a little bit.
Is it really just simply timing in terms of the softness you're seeing because of the categories was June particularly bad and you expect subsequent quarters to improve this? Could you talk about profit trends? Are you profitable in June because that's such a surprisingly low number to me for the quarter.
I think from a volume perspective June was soft but not overly surprising.
We had anticipated that the volume would start to come out from our loss of the RFP or a portion of that RFP so I don't think we were necessarily shocked by the volume in June.
As far as the profitability in June I think it was pretty much in line with what we had anticipated.
If you think about it in the context of where we had the volume coming out but our costs were not coming out at the same rate because a lot of that volume was coming out in the month of June.
So our profitability was kind of in line with what we had anticipated with what's coming out.
So Farha you said surprisingly low.
Were you referring to Q2 or Q3? Research Division</strong> More -- sorry Q3 -- kind of this summer period Q2 to Q3.
Just the volumes have been lower but they're in line with your expectations because it's really -- it did -- the industry volume kind of -- because the industry volumes have been a little bit surprising to me and I think your volumes came in just a little bit softer than we had anticipated as well.
So do you think it's just a factor more industry trends or is it just the exit out of Walmart? I think it's both.
I mean yes.
I don't think -- I mean as we've said in our prepared remarks I think there's a piece of that that is there's basis the Walmart volume that came out.
But I think there's also that the industry's soft.
I mean we were down 2.1% which is a little more than what we had anticipated.
And most of that again Farha is in the large-format areas.
So our large format is down quite a bit.
I mean our food service and small formats seem to be doing well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the industry softness do you think is related to pricing that can improve if milk prices go down? Is there any particular reason for industry volume softness? I think there's lots of reasons why it is what it is.
I mean you start with just some of the overall demographics fewer children being born.
You can look at the natural demographics of the aging population and I think all of that.
You look at some of the categories that are down the ready-to-eat cereal category continues to decline fairly dramatically and that obviously has an impact on fluid milk consumption.
And then I think the other piece of that when you look at it from where we sit just the overall volume with our business in total than -- about in line for what 30 years now.
The industry has been dropping at about 1% to 1.5% so...
So also Farha while we think the category is soft we wouldn't characterize it as being sort of catastrophically soft.
2% 2.1% in Q2.
If you take the last 6 quarters and do just a simple average it comes out to be down 2% over the last 6 quarters.
So as Gregg said the 50 year average probably closer to 1.5% but those 50 basis points are certainly not a tailwind for the business but they're a headwind that we're doing our best to take in stride.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And my final question is there's been a lot of articles talking about lower grain prices factoring into lower commodity prices for you guys.
When do you anticipate enjoying that commodity benefit? Well I think it's hard -- I'd love to say when that will actually happen but it's hard to project.
I'm guessing that if the corn crop comes in as currently anticipated you'll see the corn prices continue to decline and our feed prices decline.
You look at the overall price of milk in general the rest of this year we expect it to be relatively benign.
It may go up a little bit at the end of the third quarter and in the fourth quarter but I wouldn't -- not significantly.
So it would probably be 2014 before you would start to see that.
I mean you look at milk production I mean it's a supply market right now.
Milk production in the first half of the year was up about 0.5%.
We're anticipating it'll be up about full 1% at the end of the year.
So production continues to be up.
Demand's a little bit tepid so I would expect you would see that moving into 2014.
USDA publishes their next update on the corn crop next week I think on Monday.
So obviously we'll be paying attention to that pretty closely and who knows depending on what they say will see some movement after that.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Chris can you I don't know how difficult it is to talk in specificity about this but can you give us a bit more clarity on the make-whole premium attached to the 9 3/4% note and how that phases over the course of the next 12 months or so? And if you were to try and retire those notes by year end what -- can you give us a sense of what type of premium you would be paying then? So if we acted soon it would be to the tune of about $70 million.
So that's the trade-off between sort of the net present value of taking it out today and being at a more depressed net present value but recognizing the more fully loaded upside of reduced interest expense versus the kind of those 2 bars flipping place over the next year as we get to the first call date seeing less interest savings but sort of a better return on investment.
That's the math that we're working on kind of that trade-off on right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would the math really change materially over the next 3 or 4 months? Over the next 3 or 4 so I would characterize it as modestly.
But beyond that it continues to -- those bars do continue to switch places and it gets more material as time goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to clarify can you give an update on the magnitude or the exact magnitude of the remaining tax payments due on Morningstar? It's a little over $200 million.
We expect in the neighborhood of $100 million slightly more than $100 million in each of Q3 and Q4.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question for you.
I wondered I just was curious about your -- if you look at your underlying volume performance x the lost volume from the RFP would you say your share is holding about steady with the market? I didn't see that in your results or can you talk about that in broader terms? Yes I would tell you that if you take the RFP volume and then you take the volume from the vertical that went or the retailer that went vertical back late last year then I would say our volume is basically -- it may even be a bit better than the category.
But it's on the category.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- go ahead sorry.
Does that help? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I was trying to understand just how the base business performance.
So would you expect them with some of the new product wins -- new account wins? It sounds like some of them will be coming in Q4.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is what's going to drive you to gaining share in the category? Is it just some of the new account wins later in the year or is there something you're doing better on the branded side that may allow you to gain share.
I'm just trying to understand that if that's for the rest of the year or kind of 2014? Yes I think it is both.
I think it's our cost advantages and some of the competitive advantages that we believe we have in the marketplace that's going to allow us to continue to gain share.
The other piece of that is we do have volume coming on.
And our expectation is that that will help us be in a position to gain share as we go the rest of this year and into 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up for Chris on the sort of the capital return if and when that could happen later this year.
And any potential larger debt reduction similar to what Matt just asked about.
Do those likely happen in unison therefore do you have to make some movement on the debt use the cash to get more comfortable with returning cash to shareholders? I'm trying to understand what may instigate either one of those to occur? No I don't think that there's any sort of intrinsic tying of those different activities.
I think kind as we said in our prepared remarks we think it's prudent to work through -- so first we've had a lot of balls in the air as you all know with the spin-off and then with the monetization the retaining shares.
So a number of activities has been going on that we wanted to make sure those were done flawlessly.
Now we turn our attention to the next set of activities and yes I think you're right on point.
Capital allocation becomes that next key activity that that that same team of people who led the effort around the spin and the Morningstar sale and the monetization will turn their efforts to.
And so I think we work through that and then we have this period of a little bit of turbulence in Q2 and Q3 as the Walmart volume transitions out.
So we thought during that period of time we could be over our skis if we went too far.
So it's really more just a prudent sequencing of working through the onetime strategic efforts working through the short transitional turbulence in our underlying business and then at the end of the year moving to as Gregg said capital allocation policies that we feel 100% confident with because once we got those in place that's now a commitment that you live to going forward.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I don't recall hearing about the vertical integration of a retailer before -- I think most of the commentary was just about the loss of the RFP.
So I mean most of the retailers have been moving away from owning the production assets other than I guess Kroger or maybe ATB [ph].
So what -- can you kind of talk a little bit about that? Is that something that you fear in the market or is this just kind of a one-off that we're just kind of now hearing about? Yes Eric we put out a press release back in February that talked about -- it occurred in the upper Midwest in the Michigan area.
So we thought we had talked about it.
If you didn't pick that up I apologize.
But I don't think it's a trend.
I mean in fact we're seeing the trend actually go the other direction.
The majority of retailers have -- more of the retailers have come to us.
If you look at some of our acquisitions over the last few years those were verticals who we had purchased.
So I don't necessarily see this being a trend going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to the this Slide 16 and the use of the free cash flow over time.
The productivity investments are obvious return of capital.
Maybe you could say whether dividends versus share repurchases based on your initial view what is the priority? But in terms of growth investments I mean is there -- I mean I realize you have a lot of balls in the air but is there like any M&amp;A under consideration that investors should think about in let's say other cultured products or is there -- or would you even be allowed to at this point from an antitrust perspective to pursue anything in terms of M&amp;A that would I guess ultimately lead to maybe less return of cash to shareholders than maybe the market is expecting? Yes there was a lot in there Eric.
What I would tell you is we are in the midst of evaluating and I think you started off with what is the best -- what we believe is the best return -- the best way to return to the shareholder and whether that's a buyback or whether that's a dividend.
And we're going through all of that now.
As we said earlier we continue to -- the same team and we've cut our SG&amp;A back considerably so a lot of the people are still doing the same -- are doing a lot of the work here have been very busy with the other side.
So I think from that aspect we can't answer that today as to whether we prefer one over the other.
From an M&amp;A perspective we're always going to be interested if there's something out that's going to add value.
But that is not -- as part of our algorithm to be successful we don't have to go do M&amp;A to make it work.
So that's always going to be more opportunistic than anything else.
What was the -- there was one other piece that you were asking about in there? Research Division</strong> No I don't think so.
No.
Just one quick last comment for you.
The third quarter because WhiteWave used to be part of the numbers I mean the seasonality impact in the third quarter is a function of the school milk right and the absence of that.
And so the fixed cost absorption this quarter is particularly challenging because you don't have the extra school volume.
Is that the way to think about it? That and you really don't have -- because the fourth quarter you start getting into holidays where there's a lot of dairy products that play into the holidays.
So your mix get better.
And your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Gregg I have a 2-part question here.
First of all you've been talking about stronger performance your volume performance being stronger in the small-format channel.
So the recent volume wins have they been in that channel? And the second part question is given that and some of the other competitors have talked about being profitability-challenged in that channel so do you need to readjust your distribution assets in order to improve profitability in the small-format channel? Well I think we continue to look at our efficiencies and our effectiveness of our distribution.
That's one of the areas where we have said from the very beginning here 1 year ago 9 months ago that we think distribution is one of the areas where we have significant opportunity for efficiency gains and be more effective.
And a lot of that plays out in this shift from large format to small format.
You have to be more efficient to service the small format customer than what you may have to be on large format where it may be full truckload.
So absolutely we have to work hard to figure out how to get more efficient with that business.
And you asked about where the volume winds had come from I would sort of characterize them as coming equally across channels so we certainly had some in large format.
Small format food service as well seems to have been a place where the selling story has been particularly well presented and well received over the past couple of quarters.
Got it.
And if I may ask one more.
Given the volume weakness and especially with Walmart at least in one region stepping into the vertical integration now the pace of plant closures can you just walk us through what are the decision points when you decide to close a plant? Is it just a matter of finding the right price or are there more factors involved in that? There's a ton of factors involved in making that decision.
But I would tell you that in general they're all determined off of lowest landed cost.
So as we look at shutting down a facility and how we're going to continue to service our customers as effectively as they've been serviced in the past we look at that and then we look at our lowest landed cost and we determine which facility we need to take out.
So that's how the process works.
It's a fairly extended process and that's why you see us kind of lay these out over a sequencing period over the year.
We said we were going to close 8 to 12.
We've announced 8 already of which 5 of them have already produced their last bottle.
So there's still 3 that the team is working on day-to-day including the one that we announced yesterday in our Denver market.
And your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just first question is on cash flow.
I'm looking at Slide 15 here.
Did you say what the 2013 numbers would be for each of those lines starting with free cash flow.
What's the reported free cash flow going to look like for 2013? So Akshay what we're guiding to is on a normalized basis kind of that $75 million to $100 million range so that's where we think after you take into account the transitional items the onetime items kind more of a onetime nature the $75 million to $100 million of free cash flow this year is the guidance we've actually announced since the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> I understand that.
I'm just -- so another way to ask it is when do we get to a normalized level? Because it looks -- obviously $75 million to $100 million I know how you get there; it makes sense.
But what you're reporting is nowhere close to that and I'm just trying to understand what quarter we'll start to see something in that run rate is it 1Q '14 is when we should start to see them? I mean the litigation payments are going to continue but they're small piece.
Some of the other onetime issues are going to go away in '13 right? I mean...
Absolutely.
The 2 big remaining or the 1 big remaining onetime item that we'll see in both Q3 and Q4 is as I mentioned in the prepared remarks and I think also in Q&amp;A earlier is the remaining Morningstar tax payment.
There'll be some other smaller ones but I think you're right.
Through the balance of this year it starts to lessen because most of the separation activities that generated those onetime in nature cash payments are now behind us.
And so then as you get into 2014 we think normalized will start to tend toward reported pretty quickly.
Research Division</strong> And then CapEx staying at elevated levels I mean why -- can you be more granular on that? And if not why not at this stage? And when might we get a CapEx guidance number for next year because it's pretty much in your control so I'm wondering why you can't be more granular on that for next year? We haven't guided in general on anything for next year.
But we have said we do believe that as accelerated cost reduction takes place this year and throughout the first half of next year and potentially depending upon the work we do and the opportunities that we uncover even on through the balance of 2014 that you'll see elevated levels.
And I think we've said sort of elevated levels about in line with this year so our guidance for this year of $150 million to $175 million next year will probably be in a similar range to 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one on EBIT per gallon.
First of all the gallon numbers that you provided are very helpful so thank you for doing that.
But I think your guidance is assuming a sequential like a significant drop in EBIT per gallon somewhere around $0.05 or $0.06 a gallon and that would probably be lowest I have ever seen it.
So can you first address sort of is that the lowest we should ever see it? And then secondly all these cost savings initiatives sound good but when should we really expect those to flow through to that EBIT per gallon number? Should we start seeing that more in '14? And what will be the driver of that? Yes so I'll take the last part first and then I'll backtrack to the first part of the question.
So on sequencing of the savings the first half of this year was mostly the preparation starting the work some small start-up costs.
So the amount of accretion that we would have seen from the accelerated cost reduction in half one of 2013 was I would characterize as very modest.
And then in Q3 you start to get a little bit of traction and then Q4 it begins to hit more of a stride.
Not full stride because we still have more work to do in 2014 but Q4 of this year we'll start to feel a bit more robust in terms of that accelerated cost-reduction actually flowing through to the bottom line.
So on EBIT per gallon in the third quarter absolutely right.
I mean that is the math.
It will be lower in the third quarter.
And some of that is normal seasonality some of it is kind of back to I think Eric's question because WhiteWave and Morningstar previously made the total Dean Foods EBIT per gallon look better because it's a more stable seasonal business now with just the Dean Foods business the Fresh Dairy business.
You will always see a bit more of a depressed EBIT per gallon third quarter but this year perhaps more than most because the full amount of that -- the volume that we lost will transition out in the third quarter.
Recall that the way it seasonalized in the second quarter in April we had lost very little of the Walmart business and by June we lost about 90% of it.
So you sort of see a portion of it come out in the second quarter and then we're at full run rate of volume loss in the third quarter.
With -- as I said a second ago not much of the savings kicking in it.
So that low EBIT per gallon number that you're seeing in the third quarter I can't actually parse how much of it is.
It will be normal going forward because of our seasonal trend and how much of it is going to be onetime in nature but both of those things are going on.
And your next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gregg first off there's been some reference to working to variabilize your distribution assets? So just wondering if you can speak to that a little bit? And my follow-up is secondly with Kroger acquiring Harris Teeter how should we be thinking about that or any impact on your business from that if any can you expect it? Great.
As far as variabilizing our distribution we've got a new head of distribution who we've brought in who continues to look at the strategies around what we need to be doing.
And Tony and his team I think are doing a great job of laying out the strategy to figure out what we need to do on the distribution front.
I would tell you that I think we're obviously in the very early innings on distribution so I think we still have a ton of opportunity.
And I think from a variabilization perspective it's probably more on third-party types of distribution that would help us on the distribution side to try and variabilize some.
So I think there's more to come on that as we get further into the year and get the team in place.
As far as the Harris Teeter and Kroger we really don't really see any impact.
And I don't think it'll have any impact on our business.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the outlook.
It seems like according to your guidance last quarter you laid out that you expected volumes be down low to mid-single digits and it seems like you're going to be at the low end of that.
It was down mid-single digits but still within the range and yet you've lowered your EBITDA by about $20 million.
Can you just bridge that gap and what happened there? So it is the effect of moving the -- sort of saying that at this point we don't see low single-digit volume decline as being particularly likely given the -- primarily attributed to what we've talked about a couple of times already the category being a bit softer than we thought it would be.
So that certainly is a contributor to us taking EBITDA down.
And then the other is just kind of the making sure that we're pacing through the cost savings.
And as we said since we've got variable contribution due to the way it seasonalized in the first half now ramping it up in the third quarter and then getting to a higher level of contribution of cost savings in the fourth quarter all of that sort of as we tumble those numbers led us back to saying that at this point the EBITDA being a bit lower seems prudent.
And your next question comes from the line of Carla Casella with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine were answered but could you just give us the revolver balance at the end of the quarter and the availability? Carla if you want to call Tim Smith our Treasurer he'll walk you through the various [indiscernible] outstanding right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Clay Crumbliss in for Rob.
just wondering if you could talk about -- if volume continues to decline at this pace can you discuss any changes that you might need to make to your capacity in the future or how you guys are thinking about that? First of all we don't anticipate with -- as we start to take share and as we get our network right we don't anticipate that that will be the case.
But I think you would use the same analogy that we use as we have responded to the RFP.
If you lose too much volume you have to take capacity out.
And I think we would continue on that similar path if that would be the case.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and everybody have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.