Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Q3 2014 Dean Foods earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions].
I'd like to remind all parties this call is being recorded for replay purposes and now I'd like to hand over to Scott Vopni Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sandra and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at DeanFoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at SEC.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the 2013 spinoff and disposition of our remaining interest in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and our early retirement of debt.
We would also like to advise you that the forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated cost savings network optimization plans dairy commodity pricing the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the Company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in today's prepared section of the call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer and Chris Bellairs our CFO.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our third-quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported third-quarter results that were above our previously articulated guidance range of $0.05 to $0.15 adjusted diluted net loss per share.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $10 million and a $0.03 adjusted diluted net loss per share.
While both metrics were down considerably from year-ago results given the continued challenges facing the dairy industry due to the dairy commodity complex we are encouraged by the sequential improvement of our operating results which we believe reflects the success of our current business efforts.
As we indicated in our quarterly call in August we expected the third quarter to be a microcosm of the full year.
This year has clearly been the most difficult operating environment we've ever experienced as a company.
And so we remain rigorous in our focus on the things we control – price realization cost productivity and volume at margins that deliver an appropriate return.
Total volumes in the third quarter were 673 million gallons which represents a 2% year-over-year decline due to the partial loss of private label business with a significant customer and declines within our Class II products.
Excluding the lost RFP business total volumes declined 1%.
As of the end of the third quarter we have now lapped the RFP impact.
Specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 1%.
Excluding the significantly diminished impact of the RFP our fluid milk volumes for the third quarter decreased 0.6% year-over-year.
During the quarter on a year-over-year basis slight declines in large and small format channels were partially offset by growth in food service and the school business channels where we experienced 1% to 2% increases.
Fluid milk category volumes remained soft and volume declines continued beyond what we would consider the normal trajectory of the category.
As Class I raw milk prices remained at elevated levels the category continued to be weak.
IRI data indicates that year-over-year refrigerated fluid milk volumes in the multi-outlet or MULO and convenient store channels were down 3.8% for the quarter.
While a sequential improvement versus Q2's decline of 4.3% they are still in excess of the long-term norm.
USDA data affords us a more complete picture of the US milk metrics in our category than IRI data which contains a fair amount of extrapolation and tends to be overindexed to large format.
Unfortunately USDA data lags IRI by several months and we do not have the USDA data for any of the months in Q3.
Our visibility to our share performance is hampered with USDA data now lagging longer than usual.
But when published we believe the USDA data will show that the category continued to decline in Q3.
With our volume performance in Q3 if the USDA data were to report a category decline of 3% our share would approximate 35.6%.
This would represent a 0.7% increase in our share of the fluid milk category since bottoming out in the third quarter of 2013 at 34.9%.
We are encouraged by several dynamics within our fluid milk portfolio.
We believe we continue to outperform the category and realize increases in our share.
With pricing actions beginning to take effect this quarter we may have experienced a sequential decline in our share.
We are monitoring the performance of our branded white milk volume with an eye to demand destruction associated with price points or thresholds at retail and price gaps to private label.
At retail our brands average $4.08 per gallon in both Q2 and Q3 up $0.31 versus Q3 2013.
Additionally the price gap between our brands and private label expanded 6% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.66 this year.
These higher price points and price gaps versus private label continue to put our branded portfolio under pressure.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix we averaged just under 36% branded for the quarter.
However since the third quarter of 2013 when raw milk prices began their steady and steep climb our brand mix has declined by approximately 1%.
Notwithstanding thoughtful pricing architecture decisions compared to the prior year our branded white milk volumes are down 4% for both the quarter and year-to-date.
And our share of branded white milk at retail declined approximately 1% on both a year-over-year and sequential basis.
The tradedown from our brands to private label white milk especially if it's not a private label we produce represents an undeniable headwind to our P&amp;L.
We believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and complements our customer set and leverages our national scale and distribution capabilities in network.
As of Q3 our brands held number 1 or number 2 positions in approximately 80% of the markets we serve.
We believe we have a loyal consumer following and our data would suggest that the declining raw milk cost we should see increase in our brand mix.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall our flavored milk volumes were flat compared to last year.
As we continue to extend our national TruMoo brand into new categories such as ice cream and protein we see a path and trajectory towards building TruMoo into a $1 billion brand.
In the convenient store channel TruMoo experienced an 11% increase versus prior year in a marginally improving flavored milk channel and share increased to over 2%.
Across MULO TruMoo's share remained flat as volume performed in line with the flavored milk category which improved 1% sequentially.
We continue to focus on growing our national distribution by augmenting our DSD capability with new warehouse and extended shelf life capability.
In addition we continue to invest against the brand at leadership levels and both retailers and consumers are responding.
As a result TruMoo continues to realize share growth in food drug and convenience channels and reached a new all-time ACV with secure distribution in 72% of US shelves.
Following our successful pilot last year which was 100% incremental to the (technical difficulty) business we have just launched 2 TruMoo protein plus SKUs nationally and have already received authorization in 80% of our top key accounts.
We intend to market and build brand awareness for the new protein product at leadership levels.
With TruMoo Protein Plus we're targeting young adult males bringing a new consumer to the TruMoo franchise.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or spread between Class I mover in the retail price of private label gallons generally moved in line with the Class I mover and was relatively flat at approximately $1.39 per gallon in Q3 compared to $1.40 per gallon in the previous quarter.
The Q3 margin over milk continues to hover at historic lows and is well below the $1.52 per gallon in Q3 of 2013.
Retailers are clearly choosing price points very consciously and have not passed on the full impact of the commodity inflation experienced this year to the consumers.
In the future we expect that as raw milk prices decline retailers will restore greater profitability to the dairy case by maintaining private label price points and the margin over milk will move back toward the post 2010 historical mean of $1.50 to $1.60.
There was no abatement to raw milk costs in the third quarter as $23.51 quarterly average trailed the second quarter average by less than 1% and was 24% above year-ago levels.
Including November's announced price of $24.06 Class I raw milk prices have increased 12 out of the last 15 months and every month since February has been higher than the previous all-time high watermark of $21.91 in September of 2007.
Obviously these price levels both in tenure and absolute terms continue to be unprecedented in our history and unfortunately we expect the fourth-quarter average to also be among the highest quarterly averages ever.
Input costs at these levels have a number of meaningful negative effects on our business including increased volume softness resulting from increases in retail prices increased pressure on our margins especially across our portfolio of branded white milk products and higher costs associated with various forms of shrink.
Commodity pressures were not limited to fresh fluid milk as input costs also increased across our Class II product offerings.
Reduced levels of domestic butter stocks heading into our traditionally heavy consumption holiday period created a bidding frenzy rapidly driving steep Class II price increases.
Average Q3 CME spot butter prices increased 82% versus prior-year levels to $2.68.
CME spot butter prices have increased sequentially every month this year peaking at an all-time high of $3.06 per pound in late September.
The sustained month-over-month Class II commodity increases and large price movements in short timeframes like we experienced again this quarter can be difficult to effectively pass through.
After the end of the quarter spot butter prices and CME cash settled butter futures have both declined precipitously.
On a sequential basis despite Class I and Class II costs at or near record highs our concerted pricing actions began to take hold and our third-quarter gross profit margin per gallon increased $0.026.
I'll provide additional commentary on the current all-time high dairy commodity environment in a few minutes.
We continue to aggressively take cost out of the business.
A major cornerstone of our efficiency efforts in 2013 and 2014 included the planned closure of 10% to 15% of our plant network or 8 to 12 plants by mid-2014.
Culminating this quarter we have now closed 12 facilities since we began ramping up activities late in 2012.
Looking forward we expect to return to more historic levels of network optimization.
Over the short term there is an amount of inefficiency that occurs with plant closures.
Cost reductions lag the extra cost incurred as we move volume within our network and concurrently ramp up and wind down production and distribution.
In the third quarter we continued to experience these transitory costs in production and distribution activities associated with our 4 recent plant closures.
This offset some of the savings from our previous optimization activities and some of our in-year cost productivity improvement.
Because of volume deleverage our year-over-year total landed cost per gallon has increased each of the last 7 quarters but with our cost-reduction efforts being realized the rate of year-over-year increases is declining.
As we move past this extended period of heavy plant closure activity and realize further cost reductions we believe the rate of per-unit production and distribution costs will continue to decline and flatten from year-over-year basis.
Despite focused net price realization efforts and progress in our cost-reduction initiatives Q3 adjusted gross profit declined $26 million or 6%.
The logistics organization continues to focus on a number of initiatives to drive continued productivity to help offset inflation volume deleverage and what we call the distribution penalty or the increased miles driven resulting from plant closures.
In the third quarter with the aforementioned transitory costs and the distribution penalty logistics cost were up slightly on a year-over-year basis.
As we continue to extend our cost-minded focus to all aspects of our business SG&amp;A excluding advertising and incentive compensation was $4 million below year-ago levels.
We reported operating income of $10 million for the quarter a $32 million year-over-year decrease versus last year's $42 million.
But sequentially improvement in our net price realization led to a $0.026 increase in gross profit margin per gallon.
Behind focused and concerted efforts across our entire business operating results improved despite record high raw milk and butter fat costs above norm fluid milk category weakness brand mix shifts volume deleverage resulting from the impact of the RFP volume loss and transitory costs.
For the quarter operating income improved $16 million sequentially.
I want to take a few moments to update you on the extraordinarily challenging and unprecedented dairy commodity landscape we have experienced this year.
Last year with international supply constraints in New Zealand and the EU coupled with significantly increased Chinese import demand all major US dairy product export volumes experienced meaningful year-over-year increases.
This absorbed domestic supply and depleted domestic stocks coming into 2014.
In 2014 milk production continues to expand strongly in export regions.
During the first half of 2014 milk production across the top 7 exporters increased 5.1% versus prior year.
It's expected that their milk production growth will moderate in the second half of 2014 and be approximately 4.1% for the full year.
But this would represent the strongest supply growth in over a decade.
After modest growth rates earlier this year strong US production is coming online with mild weather favorable feed costs and quality and with increases in the herd and yield per cow milk production in the US is expected to increase approximately 3.5% in the second half of 2014.
High farm gate prices and low feed costs especially corn are creating strong producer margins and continuing to drive supply.
Because production is expected to outpace the local market demand even as the economy and prices ease manufacturers will have to choose between selling at lower prices or building stocks.
International dairy prices have declined dramatically since peaking in February.
On the supply side production rose at unprecedented rates in export regions creating ample supply and increasing product available for the world markets.
On the demand side overall consumption growth in these export regions remains modest.
In addition China and Russia which represent 20% of global imports and were the world's number 1 and number 2 importers in 2013 respectively have substantially reduced their import purchases.
Domestic Chinese milk supply has improved more than expected and beginning in April China has substantially reduced forward purchases as it works through accumulated inventory.
Russia's decision in August to place an embargo on most dairy products from the EU US and certain other countries had a pronounced impact to its import demand and EU dairy exports especially cheese.
Finally the other import buyers who make up 80% of the global import demand have shown little reentry into the market to restock.
As the market attempted to clear available and increasing supply international prices have fallen and fallen materially.
US prices for powder cheese and butter now sit at significant premiums compared to the prices of their international product counterpart.
Total US dairy exports increased approximately 4% through September of this year despite an 11% decline in August and a 16% decline in September.
However because of previous strong forward bookings by international buyers cheese exports are up 26% over this same timeframe.
Strong exports have left little room for domestic inventory building of the already depleted stocks and so commercial inventories across cheese and butter have remained below year-ago levels.
With its recent appearance on the cover of Time magazine and back in vogue with some doctors and consumers butter has been in high demand domestically.
The significantly reduced levels of domestic butter stocks heading into our traditionally heavy consumption holiday period created a bidding frenzy driving prices up rapidly and steeply in Q3 to all-time highs.
Given the extent of how price disadvantaged the US is vis-a-vis the world markets export activities are decreasing and imports are increasing.
Recent prices on the exchange have dropped significantly and the CME butter prices are over $1 per pound lower than spot prices just a month ago.
Under the complex price setting mechanisms cheese not butter will set Class I mover prices in the upcoming months.
We believe cheese prices which have held up better so far will also converge due to the pricing in balance.
From a narrowing quarter perspective with solid global production against waning demand domestic supply increasing and outpacing demand the large and unfavorable differential in US versus international dairy prices as well as other factors we expect domestic raw milk cost to moderate as we exit 2014 and move into 2015.
Outside of the narrowing quarter accurately predicting the timing and sequencing and magnitude of change remains very challenging for us and other industry experts.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the results of the income statement as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L total volumes declined 2% in the quarter.
Despite focused net price realization efforts dairy commodity costs continue to be a headwind for our business across both our fluid milk and Class II products.
Although we are making progress in our cost-reduction initiatives the transition of these volumes out of our network coupled with an above trend weakening of the fluid milk category outpaced the impact of our efforts and resulted in fixed cost deleverage within the quarter.
The result was a Q3 year-over-year decline in adjusted gross profit of $26 million or 6%.
Below the gross profit line total Company operating expenses increased $6 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expense increased $5 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities.
SG&amp;A expenses increased $3 million over last year due to the timing of short-term incentive reductions offset by lower long-term incentive compensation.
But as Gregg previously mentioned excluding advertising and incentive comp SG&amp;A costs were $4 million below year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income decline of $32 million to $10 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased $9 million from the year-ago period.
This decrease is a result of the continued benefits from the successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes partially offset by higher debt levels.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q3 adjusted net loss of $3 million and adjusted diluted loss per share of $0.03.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $50 million a 39% decline from $81 million in the prior-year period.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow as of the end of the third quarter total net debt outstanding was $948 million up from $927 million at the end of Q2.
This increase was primarily due to deterioration in working capital caused by the normal seasonality of our school business and the expected stepup of capital spend in the quarter associated with our network optimization efforts.
On an all cash netted basis our Q3 leverage ratio was 4.23 times net debt to EBITDA which was slightly over 1 turn below our covenant maximum of 5.25 times.
Subject to obtaining Board approval we intend to redeem the $23.8 million of remaining senior notes due 2018 during the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date adjusted free cash flow was negative $11 million down $108 million versus prior year.
Adjustments primarily relate to current year tax payments associated with last year's Morningstar divestiture and a $19 million Tennessee litigation payment the second of our 4 annual installments.
During the quarter we were unable to maintain our working capital levels from the previous quarter as high dairy commodity costs persisted and our school business came back online.
As a result our cash conversion cycle reflected declining DSO and DIO performance.
As Class I raw milk price and Class II butterfat costs remained at or near record highs our Q3 invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was up $58 million to $554 million.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of year outlook before opening the call up for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Let me give you some perspective on the forward outlook.
The dairy commodity environment remains extremely challenging and for the fourth quarter we expect raw milk costs will remain stubbornly high despite continued strong global production growth and waning demand.
While we don't expect much relief on raw milk costs for the growing imbalance between US dairy commodity pricing vis-a-vis the world markets until early 2015 we do expect significant butterfat cost declines at the end of Q4.
Industry volumes remain soft and we expect our Q4 volumes to be down low single digits as compared to prior year.
But with a continued improvement to net price realization further we expect the higher landed costs we've experienced behind transitory costs for plant closure activities to begin to flatten.
All told we expect Q4 EPS of $0.05 to $0.15 per share resulting in full-year loss per share of between $0.06 and $0.16.
We expect full-year adjusted EBITDA to be between $193 million and $208 million resulting in an increase to our leverage ratio in Q4.
We expect our adjusted free cash flow to end the year at approximately breakeven with CapEx being close to $150 million the low end of our original $150 million to $175 million guidance.
We recognize that these results fall well short of expectations and performance objectives we set for ourselves as we entered 2014.
But at the same time we are encouraged by the sequential improvement in our operating performance in Q3 and that we expect to deliver in Q4 even as dairy costs remain at historic highs.
In regards to next year we are in the midst of our annual planning process for 2015 and we won't get into any details or specifics at this time but we will continue to drive improved efficiency and capability across the organization to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and position the Company for long-term success.
In summary we continue to face considerable headwinds to our business – record high dairy commodity prices above trend category volume softness mix shift out of our brands and significant cost friction.
In response we continue to focus on the 3 things that we control – price realization cost productivity and volumes at margins that deliver an appropriate return.
For the third quarter we are pleased with our overall execution the progress we're making on our cost agenda and our sequential improving results.
Our Company vision is to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
As I look forward I am as confident and positive as I've ever been.
I firmly believe we can realize this vision and deliver our commitments to our employees our customers the consumers of our great-tasting products and our shareholders.
I believe we have a sound business model and a strong core business to grow upon.
We also have a passionate and dedicated workforce with a mindset to do it.
I also want to again thank our employees for their hard work commitment discipline and focus on our agenda while never compromising on quality safety or service.
I also want to take the opportunity to publicly thank all of those who have served our country as we celebrate Veterans Day tomorrow.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Hi good morning guys.
Hi Matthew.
I wanted to come back and ask about the sequential improvement in gross margin.
You gave a little bit of detail you spoke about the improvement in landed costs and progress on per-unit production costs.
But can you elaborate a bit more on what allows you to realize improvement in gross profit per gallon sequentially despite a similar level of volumes and Class I prices?  Yes I'll touch it and then let Chris jump in with a little more detail maybe but I would tell you that the 2 things that did it was our costs year-over-year were basically flat up just a touch and the price realization that we achieved on the top line so our pricing that we took I think was the biggest thing that allowed us to get to the $0.026.
That would be my general take on it.
That's it in a nutshell.
I agree with Gregg.
I think you guys have seen in prior quarters that earlier in the year on the price line net price realization we may have fallen a little bit behind but we are not sitting on our hands waiting for lower milk prices to be the only thing that improves gross profit.
So the team on the net price realization side has been working very hard since then to reverse those.
And as Gregg said we're on the back end of the cost productivity curve now so both of those things worked together pretty strongly in the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just a quick follow-up on costs.
We've heard from others in the industry this quarter that freight costs have started to tick up due to a driver shortage issue.
Is this an issue that you're starting to see in your business and could it have a semi – not from a guidance standpoint but could it have a semi-material impact on 2015 and is this playing into how you're thinking about your efforts in intermodal? Yes we're hearing the same thing Matt.
We're seeing driver shortages and obviously with our fleet we continue to hire drivers as well but I think when you look at the pros and cons of third-party freight going up a little bit and some of the tailwinds that we should get out of our cost initiatives as well as I think we're going to see a little bit of tailwind coming out of diesel for next year I think net-net we'll be fine.
Okay great.
Thanks again.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Amit.
Good morning Amit.
Gregg just wanted to focus on 2 portions pertaining to the outlook for next year.
So you talked about landed costs coming down and various industry outlooks for milk prices calling for a pretty substantial decline in Class I prices for next year.
So keeping those 2 things in mind let's talk about your branded mix.
So you lost a percent point of share this year.
As prices come down do you expect to recover what impact will it have on your margins? And the second thing is that milk over – margin over milk that you talked about $0.20 $0.30 below average as it re-expands to a normalized range how much of that do you expect to accrue to profits? Let me try to take – the first one I would tell you from a branded perspective.
If history repeats itself which it typically does we would see that our branded share would come back as prices started to come down.
If you look over the last period of time 5 years you could see that it goes up and down basis the prices about a percentage either way maybe a couple percent either way but it stays in a pretty tight band.
So we would anticipate that that 1% would come back to us as prices came down.
The second part of your question as far as margin over milk if you assumed that the retailers are going to get back to their historical norms which would be between $1.50 and $1.60 from $1.39 and we think they will as prices start to decline so I would say that as they put that profit back into the dairy category all of us will benefit mainly because our branded gap will start to come back closer.
So we said earlier that we're about $0.66 difference between our branded and private label pricing today.
You'll see that gap start to close as retailers come back with more historical levels of their margin over milk.
Any color Gregg on the quantitative impact on your per-gallon operating margins from these 2 factors? It's so complicated because if you think about how the brand private label mix change will occur you've got to get down even to channel level because from large format to small format those profit margins are very different.
So we're hopeful that as the brand private label mix recovers that we see some of that benefit in large format because that's where it would be more helpful to the income statement.
But at this point there are a number of variables involved in that.
So calling it with a high amount of specificity would be hard.
Yes I don't know how we would do that just because you've got to project it – as Chris said you've got to project it not only by channel but you've got to project it as to timing and that would be really tough.
That's fair but suffice it to say that margin should expand to not historic level but what we saw in… It should improve it should improve.
Okay that's all from me.
Thank you.
Thank you good morning.
Hi Judy.
So I wanted to follow up on Matt's question regarding the sequential improvement and this is more about the 4Q guidance which I think implies even further improvement EBIT per gallon of I think $0.05 or so which is a pretty big stepup from what you saw even in the third quarter.
So can you just elaborate on what the drivers are in terms of the sequential from 3Q to 4Q EBIT per gallon improvement? I mean I think again it comes back to the 3 things that we do control.
It's pricing actions that impact our net price realization improvement so we'll continue to see the benefit that we got in the third quarter with some additional price realization in the fourth.
We will see our costs the transitory costs continue to decline as we come out of the third quarter into the fourth.
So we should see our costs start to flatten if not start to decline.
And then we're all the way through our RFP volume loss at this point because I hope this is the last time we have to talk about that but that's totally overlapped.
So you get the 2 of those you should see some continuation of our sequential gross profit and OI improvement as we move into the fourth quarter.
The only thing I would add to that Judy is the steep decline in Class II butterfat prices in the fourth quarter.
So remember we didn't get really any benefit from that in the third quarter and that has been a substantial headwind for the business over the last 3 quarters even over the last 4 quarters.
So in the fourth quarter you get benefit from that and in some respects you almost might think of it as one-time benefit because butterfat prices aren't going to continue.
They will still go down some more but we're getting a reset in the fourth quarter.
So some of that sequential improvement a material amount of that sequential improvement in Q4 will be attributable to Class II butterfat.
Okay.
If I could just follow up on – so I guess 1 area where it seems like things have really improved that you're controlling is the pricing actions and I just wanted to better understand what's been changing as you've taken some of that pricing action and the response that you've seen and you've talked about the branded share being down as a mix.
Is that being driven by the pricing actions that you're taking and then as butter prices come down and the Class I movers' pricing does potentially come down does that then reverse more quickly in terms of you having to give back some of the pricing actions that you've taken in the third and maybe in the fourth quarter? Yes let me try to touch on – it's really hard to tell.
One of the issues that we continue to be faced with is the lack of data and especially with USDA data coming in.
I mean we have not received any USDA data since June of this year.
So it's hard to say what impact it's having on our share or on our – we have to make some assumptions around that.
But I would tell you that we do believe that we're seeing some impact from the pricing on our brands especially our regional brands that we're seeing those get impacted by the price increases that we're taking.
I think the other thing is as we continue to push up against certain price thresholds that we finally decided that we had to go through.
We had held off trying to go above $4.
We finally decided we have to go above $4 and in some cases above $5 in some markets.
So I think we're seeing the implications of that in our price realization and actually haven't seen it impact the volume as dramatically as we may have anticipated.
As far as why we did it more so in the second and third quarters is because we finally figured out that maybe this thing wasn't coming down in the near term because we kept anticipating that it would be coming down 2 to 3 months out.
I think we finally got to a point where that wasn't happening so we needed to get this price.
Got it okay thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Akshay.
Good morning Akshay.
Can you clarify – so first question is on the debt covenants.
Based on your guidance it seems like you're going to be in compliance with 4Q with your 4Q covenant.
Is that correct? I will let Chris speak to the specifics of it but I would tell you that we have no plan to amend our covenants.
Yes that is the performance that's implied in our OI guidance correct.
Okay perfect.
And then just to follow up on the pricing improvements I mean when I look at your gallon metrics and your dollar sales it's not really evident to us to me at least how I should judge the pricing performance.
Sequentially it actually seems like you did better in 2Q.
So perhaps maybe we could take this offline if it's too detailed but I'm having a hard time really figuring out how you did better on pricing but maybe you can give us some qualitative information.
And in that context maybe also talk about your recent hire of Ralph.
I think he's going to be your new commercial officer and what are the plans there? Well I will let Chris talk to the specifics of the pricing and why you may be seeing it differently than we are seeing it but I will speak to Ralph.
I am extremely confident that Ralph Scozzafava will bring to the party what we need in the commercial organization.
He's demonstrated the experience and the leadership capabilities so I think the biggest thing that we're looking for from Ralph is helping us find different avenues to grow.
So my expectation is that he will come in and help deliver that.
I think the best way to look at the pricing performance the proxy that I look at on pricing is gross profit and in the first half of the year on average for Q2 and Q1 GP per gallon was about $0.60 and versus prior year again for Q1 and Q2 together in aggregate was down about $0.08 versus prior year.
In Q3 GP per gallon stepped up to $0.62 a gallon and was only only down $0.026 versus prior year.
So a pretty substantial improvement in the rate of decline versus prior year and a pretty substantial improvement sequentially as we said in the prepared script of $0.026 Q3 versus Q2.
So there is some tailwind in that number from the improving landed cost performance particularly in plant operations but I would attribute most of that improvement in gross profit to our discipline and our focus on the price line.
So just to follow up on that so you've closed 12 plants.
Where are we in terms of that optimization effort actually flowing through fully in your P&amp;L? So in terms of plant costs per gallon what quarter or when – by what time period should we expect you to be at sort of optimal levels relative to all the actions you've taken in terms of plant costs? Well you should see it in the fourth quarter.
You've seen it consistently decline since third quarter of last year but you should see it in the fourth quarter and going forward.
Our transitory – we've told you in the past that typically our transitory costs will usually hang on for 60 to 90 days.
In some cases it will be 120 days but in most cases it will be out about 90 days.
So we should be seeing that as we speak.
Okay.
And just one last one on free cash flow 2 questions there.
One is can you just talk through sort of the guidance you had initially given on free cash flow versus the latest guidance? And I think the main issue was when you first gave free cash flow guidance I remember you saying most of that related to how the compensation accruals were working out and that was a big year-over-year number.
I'm assuming that's still in place and a lot of it got offset by higher milk cost profitability and also working capital.
So maybe just help us understand what the moving parts have been and are there any one-time issues that we should be looking at like the compensation accrual as we're thinking of free cash flow for next year? We're going to try and stick with the one follow-up so why don't you – so we can make sure everybody gets on the call.
So give us a call later and we'll work through those other detailed questions okay? All right sounds good.
Thanks.
Hi thanks very much.
Hi Rob.
I was just plugging in some different numbers into my Class I formula here.
And I guess my concern is let's say we cut butter prices in half well below $2 but cheese prices are quite high and you said that you expect them to converge but why should we expect cheese prices to converge? I mean cheese demand is very very high.
I guess if dairy costs are coming down everything comes down.
But if we have cheese above $2 we could probably have Class I above $22 $23 per hundredweight for a while.
Is that true?   I think what you're seeing is you're seeing the convergence mainly on an international basis.
So as we look at international prices with cheese and I think once you get through the holiday demand period I think we will see cheese prices start to come off fairly dramatically in December and the end of December.
So I think we'll see the cheese prices come down.
I think they will continue to drive Class I at least through the first quarter and then we'll see what happens after that.
But I think for the time being you should see cheese come off fairly dramatically and it'll be mainly driven by this just overall what I'll characterize as a wall of milk coming at us.
You've got a lot of production that's out there that's coming into the market.
And then you've got EU coming off of quotas you have China and Russia neither one of them – with Russia's band still in place so there's nothing going into Russia.
And then you've got all the cheese that was going to Russia that's hitting the rest of the market.
So there's just lots of different things that are coming together but it's mainly just supply.
There's just a ton of supply out there that's coming at us.
But Rob you put your finger on the reason why it remains difficult to call the industry much beyond one quarter because the exact timing of how those cheese and butter prices will converge whether that's here in the US or US versus international that remains a difficult task and we expect it to probably remain more difficult than it has historically going forward into 2015.
And I guess that leads to my follow-up Chris I think most people think normalized margins are about $0.08 per gallon on an EBIT basis but the industry has proven more volatile than anyone expected.
Have you considered reassessing that normalized margin? Do you have any idea what normalized might be now? Well we've used $0.08 a gallon as a marker from 2013.
That's how the business performed in 2013 and 2013 was a year where there were some tailwinds that were helping the business things like lower bonus payouts for the team here at Dean Foods.
And there were some headwinds that were holding the business back.
So whether 2013 is normalized or not – sorry – whether the $0.08 from 2013 is normalized is kind of yet to be seen but that's the business – that's the path that we're trying to put the business on into 2015 as we begin the process of rebuilding the P&amp;L from where it has been this year.
So we definitely want to take the business back toward that $0.08 rate but the path back in 2015 and beyond is going to continue to have challenges on it because the industry continues to have more than its fair share of struggles.
That makes sense.
Thank you.
Just the overall volatility I don't think is going to change a ton.
<br>Right.
Okay.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg just a question on your plant efficiencies here.
You've closed a dozen facilities so far now.
But I think even with this your run rate utilization is still around 60%.
So why not push forward with even more closures? Is there anything keeping you from doing that at this point? No I think the biggest one right now is just trying to get the network balance back down.
We will continue to go at the network as we have in the past.
One of the things that we're up against John is that they get harder and harder over time.
The complexity of the consolidations gets harder and harder over time.
And I think you get to a point where the distribution costs start to offset the plant closure savings.
So the 12 we did were I wouldn't say easy because all of them have been complex but they sequentially get harder as we went through the system.
So we'll continue to look at the network.
You're right; there continues to be opportunity to improve that utilization the asset utilization.
And I think as we continue to push our OEs in the facilities up that asset utilization will continue to go down a little bit.
So we'll continue to provide more opportunities.
Great and then Chris one follow-up if I could.
How should we think about the year-on-year reduction in 2014 incentive comp? Have you quantified that at all? I can't remember if we put an exact number on that but we have had a bit – it's been equal overlap between 2013 and 2014 because we didn't pay a great bonus in 2013 and that's what we're accruing to again in 2014 John but keep in mind that will be a headwind as we get into 2015.
To the extent that we put a plan in place next year and that plan includes paying out short-term and long-term incentive comp at target and we have favorable overlaps on stock price which drives a piece of the long-term incentive comp that will be a modestly large headwind for the business as we plan next year but still working through the planning process.
Okay thank you Chris.
Thanks Gregg.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question and this one’s from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Gregg Tanner Hey Chris.
Hi.
I just had 2 questions for you if I could.
The first one just to follow up on an earlier question we talked a lot about the gross profit per gallon and cost of goods sold.
And you've seen – just to be clear you saw sequential progress in the third quarter and I'm going to assume that's the same for the fourth quarter.
So that's a question.
I guess in relation to that have you said what the total costs are these increased distribution costs related to the plant closures? Like what's the amount that we sort of compare against in 2015? Well I think I would tell you that yes you should see the sequential improvement in the fourth quarter coming out of the third from a supply perspective or at least from a conversion perspective.
And we should see the same thing coming out of logistics.
We have not shared the exact numbers of what that looks like Chris but I would tell you that our landed costs which would include both distribution and our conversion you should expect to see them on a steady decline.
Okay.
And then just in relation to the volume this quarter was there anything unique to new customers? I know you are always trying to find new customers.
Anything that's helping your volume performance? That looks to be quite strong in relation to the category.
No not really.
I mean we haven't – there hasn't been a lot of RFP activity out there so it's been relatively benign.
And I think we picked up a little bit.
We were very happy with our school business and the volume that we gained in our school bidding process.
But outside of that you're seeing some pretty good food service and growth but it's still pretty small.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Well thank you all for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!