Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods Corporate Web site.
This broadcast is a property of Dean Foods.
Any re-distribution re-transmission or re-broadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our Web site at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at Dean Foods Web site.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our Web site beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other nonrecurring items including the 2013 spin-off and disposition of our remaining investment in WhiteWave common stock the Morningstar divestiture and our early retirement of debt.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans capital structure and debt refinancing plans the payments of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section of the call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on our forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open up the call to your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported fourth quarter results that were in line with our previously articulated guidance range.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $26 million and adjusted diluted earnings of $0.08 per share.
As reflected in our results 2014 was clearly the most difficult operating environment we've ever experienced as a company.
On a full year basis we reported adjusted operating income of $36 million and an adjusted loss of $0.14 per share.
During 2014 we were challenged by record high dairy commodity prices softening category volumes mix shift out of our brands and meaningful cost friction [ph].
Accordingly we remain focused on the things that we control; price realization cost productivity and volume at margins that deliver an appropriate return and we continue to see signs of progress.
As we exit 2014 we believe this progress will enable us to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and to deliver our stockholders the various forms of returns that we have committed to provide.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape.
In 2014 the dairy commodity price levels both in 10-year and absolute terms were unprecedented.
Record high and volatile input cost had a number of meaningful negative effects on our business and our 2014 results including increased volume softness resulting from increases in retail prices increased pressure on our margins especially across our portfolio of branded white milk products volatility for the margin performance of our Class II products and lastly higher costs associated with the various forms of shrink.
As we enter 2015 we're experiencing significant domestic fluid milk price declines and all the following playing a role; solid global milk production growth behind favorable feed cost farmer margins and weather conditions waning demand for dairy and a significant reduction in importing by China and Russia increasing domestic supply that is outpacing demand coupled with seasonal rebuilding of stocks along with significant declines in U.S.
exports as well as the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
We expect solid global supply growth to continue in the short-term and increase when the EU comes off quarter in April.
With the convergence of U.S.
and international prices as well as other factors we expect domestic raw milk costs declines to continue but to moderate as we exit Q1.
Across the other U.S.
dairy commodities including cheese butter and dry milk dramatic cost declines have occurred over the last three months.
In the short-term with the rebuilding of stocks we expect only marginal price movements for these commodities.
As expected high raw milk cost did not abate in the fourth quarter as the $23.56 quarterly average trailed the second quarter historical high average by only $0.07 and was 18% above the year ago levels.
On a full year basis the $23.29 average experienced in 2014 was the highest ever and was 24% above the 2013 average of $18.84.
Class I mover declines which began in harness in December are continuing into early 2015.
Sequentially the Class I mover declined $3.95 per 100 weight to $18.58 in January 2015 and another $2.34 per 100 weight to $16.24 in February of 2015.
We anticipate another decline in March and our projected Q1 2015 Class I mover average of $16.84 per 100 weight represents a 29% decline sequentially and a 25% decline on a year-over-year basis.
To put this into context using our estimate for March's Class I price the cost of raw milk will have declined $0.72 per gallon since November.
Declining raw milk costs especially with this magnitude should provide some support to our category and additional tailwinds to our business.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or spread between the Class I mover in the retail price of private label gallons moved in line with the Class I mover changes.
In Q4 the Class I mover average increased a penny per gallon and the margin over milk decreased from $1.39 per gallon in Q3 to $1.38 per gallon.
While Q4 margin over milk continued to hover at historic lows it's noteworthy that retailers utilized the opportunity to buoy their profits in June and again in December when presented with month-over-month Class I mover declines.
For December in conjunction with the $0.13 per gallon decline in Class I mover the margin over milk increased $0.12 to a $1.47 per gallon.
During 2014 retailers with an eye towards the volume demand destruction clearly chose the private label price point very consciously and did not pass on to the consumers the full impact of the commodity inflation they experienced.
However prudent and thoughtful retail pricing was it failed to offset the tepid consumer demand or prevent category softness.
As we enter 2015 and experience continuing significant raw milk price declines we expect the margin over milk to increase further as retailers restore greater profitability to the dairy case.
But it's uncertain what product pricing strategies the retailer will pursue for private label white milk and how retailers will affect the timing and magnitude of their margin expansion through price point changes.
It's also uncertain how the related consumer purchasing dynamics will be impacted.
Our volume performance continues to be negatively impacted by the record high input costs in places at retail.
In the fourth quarter total volumes across all products were 683 million gallons which represents a 2% year-over-year decline.
On a full year on adjusted basis total volumes for all products declined 4% to 2.7 billion gallons due to the partial loss of private label business with a significant customer and declines within our Class II products.
Excluding only the last RFP business full year total volumes declined 1%.
In the fourth quarter specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 2%.
For the full year unadjusted fluid milk volumes declined 4% on a year-over-year basis including the impacts of the RFP-driven volume loss in 2013.
Excluding the impact of the RFP our fluid milk volumes for the full year decreased 0.6% year-over-year.
For the quarter our volume declines were most visible within the large format channel and across our branded white milk portfolio.
During the quarter on a year-over-year basis we experienced 4% growth in the food service channel.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid volumes through November and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid volume declines increased sequentially from a 3.5% decline in the second quarter to a 3.7% decline in the third quarter.
As compared to the second quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume remained flat at 35.9% during the third quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended November industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 4.5% year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
So on the same quarter-to-date basis the in-fluid share increased to 35.6% from 35.4% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Fluid milk cost remained elevated during the quarter and continue to negatively impact the overall health of the category by causing volume declines beyond what we could consider a normal trajectory for the category.
While the full quarter impact is not yet known pending USDA data the effect of operation actions appears to be manifesting itself in our share performance.
On a sequential basis we experienced a decline in our share through November.
While we are pleased with our volume and margin performance we remain very concerned about the overall health of the category.
With raw milk cost remaining elevated in Q4 we continue to make market-driven placing architecture decision associated with price points or thresholds at retail and price gaps to private label for our branded white milk products.
We also continued to focus on striking the right balance between net price realization and domain destruction.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands averaged $4.8 per gallon in both Q3 and Q4 up $0.24 versus Q4 2013.
Additionally the price gap between our brands and private label were expanded 6% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.66 this year.
These higher price points and price gaps versus private label continue to put our branded portfolio under pressure.
The trade now from our brand to private label white milk especially if it's not our private label we produce was a headwind to our P&amp;L all year.
And on a year-over-year basis our branded white milk volumes were down 5% for the quarter and 4% for the full year.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix since the third quarter of 2013 when raw milk prices began their steady and steep climb our brand mix has sequentially declined every quarter.
For Q4 we averaged just under 35.5% branded.
Further on a year-over-year basis our share of branded white milk at retail declined 4% for the quarter and 1% for the year.
We believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and compliments our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network in one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct store delivery systems.
We believe we have a loyal consumer following and with the declining raw milk cost that we're experiencing we should see an increase in the mix and margins of our branded white milk.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall on a year-over-year basis our flavored milk volumes were down 2% for the quarter and 3% for the full year.
IRI data indicate that for the year ending '14-'15 flavored milk category volume was down 5.5% in MULO.
Declines are being predominantly driven within the large format channel.
We believe the flavored milk category weakness reflects consumer reaction to continued high prices at retail as opposed to a fundamental shift in consumer trends.
With respect to our national brand TruMoo our coast-to-coast extended shelf life and corrugated capability continues to enable distribution growth into warehouse channels beyond our DSD networks.
In 2014 our MULO ACV grew from 65.1% to 73.3%.
We've been particularly effective in penetrating the C-store channel with our higher margins single serve line of TruMoo products.
And in 2014 we grew our TruMoo C-store volume by 8.6%.
For the year TruMoo's net sales growth across all channels was 3% and 4.2% in retail channels.
As we continue to grow the TruMoo brand we're pleased with our innovation efforts and our line extensions into new categories including our new on-trend TruMoo protein plus products.
In matter of months TruMoo protein has secured 37.5% of retail shelves and a 10% share on the refrigerated protein beverage segment.
TruMoo protein was voted the top new diary product of 2014 in a poll conducted by diary foods magazine.
As we look to 2015 and beyond we'll continue to invest in TruMoo growth with new consumer advertising new flavor offerings and exciting promotions during key seasonal windows.
We believe we are the low cost producer today and we expect to further extend our advantage through cost reduction and efficiency activities across the business.
We will continue to drive our cost productivity agenda and work toward operational excellence.
Our size breadth and capabilities give us opportunities to reduce cost in ways that are difficult for our competitors to match.
In 2014 we completed the last of the plant closures associated with our accelerated network optimization; an effort that resulted in closure of 12 plants over an 18-month timeframe.
While we incurred end-year transitory costs in both our production and distribution activities we have reduced excess capacity in our network and driven asset realization and efficiencies higher.
In addition through our other cost savings initiatives when fully realized we expect the cost savings and efficiency gains from these plant closures to help offset the volume de-leverage in our plants and inflation in our business.
Looking forward we expect to return to more historical levels of network optimization and in January we announced another plant closure.
Within logistics we continue to have a great deal of opportunity to also help offset inflate volume de-leverage and what we call the "Distribution penalty " for the increase in miles driven resulting from plant closure.
We believe we have several years of opportunity ahead of us to drive meaningful savings within logistics.
Across our total landed costs the all–in operating cost of our plant logistics assets and personnel the trend of reducing the rate of year-over-year landed cost per gallon increases take a step backwards in Q4.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned distribution penalty I'm disappointed in our overall landed cost performance this quarter.
But since it occurred in areas I deem controllable I'm confident we can make the requisite corrections going forward.
We reported adjusted operated income of 26 million for the quarter a 22 million year-over-year decrease versus last year's 48 million.
Sequentially operating income improved 16 million or $2.3 a gallon.
The progress we're making behind price realization is evident.
First for Q4 gross margin per gallon improved 2.9% sequentially.
And second versus Q4 2013 despite Class I products being up 18% and volumes down 2% our gross profit margin per gallon was up 1%.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results Chris.
Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q4 and full year income statement results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter total volume declined 2% in Q4 despite elevated Class I costs with the effect of pricing actions and favorable cost declines associated with our Class II products our net price realization improved.
However the full benefit was partially offset due to fixed cost de-leverage and as Gregg mentioned certain challenges within our operating plans.
Adjusted gross profit of $443 million in Q4 represents a 4 million or less than 1% declined versus the year ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $18 million from the year ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $8 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into the areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including an increase in health benefit costs.
SG&amp;A expenses increased $10 million over 2013 primarily due to the variable component of long-term incentive compensation that is tied to our stock price and the overlap of a true up to an estimated liability.
Well the SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were up $3 million versus year ago levels; they were down after factoring the prior year true up.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income decline of $22 million to $26 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense decreased 5 million from the prior year period.
This decrease is a result of a continued benefit from our successful late 2013 repurchase of a portion of our higher coupon senior notes offset by higher debt levels.
This in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded at Q4 adjusted net income of $7 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.08.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $67 million a 24% decline from $88 million in the prior year period.
On a full year basis gross profit decreased 10% due to the combination of record high dairy high prices softening category volumes mix shift out of our brands and meaningful cost friction.
Operating expenses which have been trending better year-over-year through Q3 increased $7 million or 0.5% versus year ago level.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $17 million primarily due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding close facilities as well as transitory costs associated with plant closures.
With incentive compensation essentially flat year-over-year SG&amp;A expenses declined $7 million as we maintained vigorous cost control focus during 2014 and offset $5 million of incremental advertising.
Excluding incentive comp and advertising SG&amp;A cost declined $10 million or 2%.
In total we experienced the year-over-year operating income decline of $129 million to $36 million.
Below operating income a $38 million decline in interest expense coupled with the normalized adjusted 38% tax rate resulted in a full year adjusted net loss of $13 million or a loss of $0.14 per share.
For 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $196 million down 50% versus prior year adjusted EBITDA of $389 million.
Full year results are reflective of just how difficult an operating environment we've been in but after another quarter of sequentially improving gross profit and operating income per gallon and with what we're seeing so far this year we believe we have the business headed in the right direction.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow; at the end of the fourth quarter total net debt outstanding was $901 million down from $948 million at the end of Q3.
This decrease was primarily facilitated by improved free cash flow performance.
On an all cash netted basis our Q4 total leverage ratio was 4.48 times net debt-to-EBITDA which was in compliance with our covenant maximum of 5.25 times.
Also in December we redeemed all outstanding senior notes due 2018.
With regard to overall capital structure during the first half of 2015 subject to market conditions and the receipt of appropriate approvals we intent to optimize our liquidity and strengthen our financial position by opportunistically refinancing or otherwise addressing certain of our existing long-term debt including our 7% senior notes due June 1 2016.
The specific timing structure and terms of such refinancing transactions have not yet been finalized.
Full year adjusted free cash flow was $25 million down $35 million versus prior year.
Adjustments primarily related to current year tax payments or receipts associated with last year's Morningstar divestiture and White Wave spin off and the net of tax effect of our $19 million Tennessee litigation payment the second of four annual installments.
In addition during 2014 cash proceeds from asset sales totaled over $27 million.
During the quarter we were able to improve our working capital levels from Q3.
As a result our cash conversion cycle reflected better sequential DSO and DIO performance caused by a return to more normal receivable levels versus Q3 and lower inventory caused by falling Class II butterfat prices.
Our Q4 invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down to $479 million providing a $75 million source of cash compared to Q3's $58 million use of cash.
Finally I want to take a few minutes to walk you through the financial impact of the material declines in the price of diesel.
First diesel is a component of our pricing mechanisms for a majority of our business.
So declining diesel cost will cause our logistics cost and our revenue to decline in tandem.
Second based on financial hedges and forward supply agreements we're underwater versus forward curve by about $14 million.
Finally we're expecting third-party freight cost to increase in total due to the current labor shortage of drivers.
All in while there will be some moving parts within the P&amp;L we're not expecting the diesel price decline to result in a material net impact to the overall P&amp;L in 2015.
With that I'll now turn the call back over to Gregg for some commentary on our balance of year outlook before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris let me give you some perspective on the forward outlook.
In regard to 2015 given the structural cost we have removed from our system and the multiple inherent benefits that come with cheaper raw milk we expect our 2015 financial results to be substantially better than 2014.
However we believe there are several key factors or variables which could have a material impact on our full year 2015 results and these factors remain difficult to quantify.
While we are currently experiencing rapid and significant cost declines across the entire U.S.
dairy commodity complex we believe the dairy commodity environment continues to be volatile and unpredictable over the mid-term.
Industry volumes have declined above the long-term norms as we come out over the long period of record high dairy commodity costs we lack any historical data to predict how retailers and consumers will behave.
We're also uncertain as to whether the health of the category will improve or if it does when and to what extent.
And we continue to operate in an industry with over-capacity and declining dairy commodity costs which may heighten the competitive environment.
Accordingly for now we are going to continue to provide specific guidance for the upcoming quarter only.
In regards to Q1 I'd start by pointing out that compared to Q4 there is a mix shift that will impact gross margins and a decrease in selling days which will impact volumes as well as inflation for employee wage and benefit cost as we rollover into a New Year.
We expect volume declines in Q1 of low to mid-single digits compared to last year.
With the dairy complex dropping precipitously we expect a tailwind to the margin pull for our branded fluid milk portfolio and our shrink cost.
We will continue our cost reduction efforts to reduce our landing cost and offset known headwinds such as annual inflation associated with our non-dairy inputs and increase in employee wage and benefit costs.
And lastly largely within SG&amp;A we expect to face higher short-term incentive cost if targeted performance levels are achieved.
We also anticipate higher long-term incentive costs as we overlap the P&amp;L effect of LTI Instruments that are tied to the stock price over current year operating performance.
In total incentive compensation is about $10 million a quarter of headwind.
All told we expect sequential EPS improvement to continue with Q1 EPS of $0.12 to $0.22 per share.
Finally we expect CapEx to be approximately $150 million for the full year.
The largest portion of our business the fluid milk category is a $20 billion category at retail because of its ubiquity and frequency of purchase it's an important category for retailers and represents one of the most profitable areas of the store for the typical grocer.
With increasing demand for locally sourced protein dense foods with clean labels milk is uniquely positioned to meet these growing consumer needs.
In a recent study over 70% of consumers indicated locally sourced products on important consideration when making shopping decisions.
Another recent NPD study indicated protein is the most sorted after food ingredient by both adults and teens.
In 2015 as an industry through MilkPep over $60 million will be invested across TV print and digital platforms through minding consumers that milk is one of the most naturally occurring protein dense foods available.
There is also a social media campaign is feeling many of the miss associated with the category.
As the category leader we need to go above and beyond industry-led growth initiatives and do more to bring consumers back to the category.
In summary we're executing a clear and focused vision for our Company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great tasting dairy products at every occasion.
And with America's increasing focus on health and wellness I believe milk with its clean label is well positioned as a fresh delicious source of nutrition and protein for consumers of all ages.
As we exit 2014 and enter 2015 we're encouraged by the sequential improvement in our operating performance.
With the progress achieved in our cost reduction initiatives we believe we are very well positioned and are excited about the future direction of the business.
Our customers include many of the largest and best food retailers and food service companies and distributors in the country.
We believe our relative scale of full adjusted sustainable cost service and quality advantages allowing us to more effectively service these customers versus our competitors.
We will continue to drive improved efficiency in capability across the organization to begin rebuilding our P&amp;L in 2015 and position the Company for long term success and be a sustainable creator of value for our shareholders.
Lastly I also want to thank all of our employees for their hard work as they continue to focus and execute our agenda while never compromising on quality safety or service.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The question is from the line of Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Good morning Eric.
I guess my question goes to the excess capacity still in the industry.
You obviously took out a lot over the last 18 months.
It sounds Gregg like you continue to do that.
We don't have a lot of visibility into what remains a fragmented competitive set.
Can you just give us a sense of -- as to roughly where you think capacity utilization is? And I suppose if it's still quite low that's one of the things you are concerned about? Yes I mean Eric I think it's -- when I think about what we've done in taking 10% to 15% of our capacity out and I think we've seen a little more de-leverage with the volume doing what it's done and what we had expected so we're probably looking at somewhere in the low 60s.
And again it's so dependent upon different regions of the country and we're have locations or not because there are certain locations that we have that are going to have considerably lower than that from the utilization perspective obvious states like Montana where we might be in the 30-40% type utilization but we don't see an opportunity necessarily to consolidate in that area.
And then there's other parts of the country where we'll see it up in the 75% to 80% range which is a range with fresh product where we would like to see it be.
So I think from our perspective we are continuing to do what we need to do to try and give the utilizations and the asset utilizations up to a much higher level.
As far as what the competitors are doing you can read it as well as I can read it there's -- we'll see what happens as time goes by.
Okay.
And then just as my one follow-up I was a little bit surprised that your -- albeit short term but I was a little bit surprised that you are looking for such softness in volume in the first quarter.
Is there anything specifically going on there? Or have you just see the category I don't know weaken surprisingly a bit or competition is a little bit greater as we have started the new year? And then I will pass it on.
Thank you.
It's all right.
Thanks Eric.
No I think its just playing off of the trends.
If you look in second quarter we were down 3-2 3-5 the third quarter was down 3-7.
The fourth quarter looks to be projected at 4-5 for the category.
I think these high prices have just -- we crossed price points that we didn't anticipate.
We got above $4 in some cases.
I think our average in the fourth quarter was $4.08 a gallon.
We're not sure because we are in uncharted waters what's going to happen once these prices start coming down whether or not or how fast the consumer is going to come back.
So I think what you're seeing is -- are just playing off of the trends that we've seen through the first or the last three quarters of Q4 and moving into Q1.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Farha Aslam from Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Good morning Farha.
And when you look at what retailers are doing at retail you've had maybe two months so far of lower milk prices.
Are they dropping their private label milk prices down? Well I think if you look at December as we said in our prepared remarks it dropped -- their margin over milk went from $1.39 to $1.47.
And so if you take that into account with the drop of prices that has occurred it would say that they did not pass along their reduction in December.
We don't have the January data yet but I think we are starting to see a little bit of a softening as we go into January but until we get the data it's a tough call to make.
Okay and would you view them dropping the price of private label to spur volume as a good thing for Dean Foods? Or would you see them dropping pricing so therefore you have to take branded milk pricing down as a bad thing for Dean Foods? Well I think as long as we maintain our gaps appropriately.
As we talked earlier you got $0.62 a year ago and now we're at $0.66.
So I think anything -- if they drop them down our margin on branded goes down but as long as we can maintain our gaps I think that's a positive for us.
Obviously the higher the prices are the more margin we get out of it as it comes down.
But I think it's more important at this point that we get the consumer back in the category because that's probably my bigger concern is the category more so than -- because I think our price realization and the work that we've done on pricing has worked well for us and I think the categories are a bigger concern at this point.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Brett Hundley from BB&amp;T Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question guys.
Brett sure.
So Gregg just going back to that real quick I certainly understand your positive outlook for milk as being a part of consumers gravitating towards protein more and more.
And then just in trying to jive that with your near-term concerns on consumer takeaway overall health of the category et cetera can you just maybe give some ideas or let us know how you are thinking about how that bridge occurs and how the company is at the forefront of moving from the weak environment that we have been at to milk being a more central part of U.S.
consumers gravitating towards protein? Yes I think it's one -- Brett it's a constant balance for us in trying to get our price realization right and make sure that we're dropping the prices accordingly to just to try to get the price points back to more historical levels.
If history were to repeat itself even though we're in new territory the category in general was typically down 1%-2% for a long time until we reached this peak in pricing.
So if that were to occur I think it's going to take the pricing that we're seeing in the marketplace today.
I also think it's going to take us getting on air and talking to people about the benefits of milk.
I'm very excited about the MilkPep campaign that we currently have underway.
And I think when I talked about the protein dense nature of milk but it's also one of the most cost effective protein sources.
So on a per gram basis of protein dairy is about as cost effective as anything out there.
So all of that together tells me that we ought to start to see the categories start to come back but as far as trying to predict when and how much that's a tough call.
I just think we're going to continue to press on with TruMoo protein.
We think that's on trend and it's obviously proven out with the success we've had in the marketplace and we'll continue to work on other innovations and products that will align us well.
But again you talk about what consumers are looking for and they're looking for a clean label they're looking for locally sourced and they're looking for fresh.
Boy I can't think of a better product out there than milk.
So I just got to believe that if the trends continue with the consumer wanting dense protein at a cost effective way I just got to believe we're going to see this thing start to come back.
Okay and maybe looking at the flip side of the coin on the cost side can you go back through some of the potential landed cost improvements that you want to drive ahead? And can you maybe talk specifically to some of the things that are in your control and timing wise when shareholders can see those improvements start to come back? Yes I think you will see them start to come back in Q1.
If you think about what happened in Q4 from a cost perspective that slowed down the decline that we've seen for about 5-6 straight quarters we had to do with a multitude of things but the two bigger things were some projects that were behind schedule from what we had anticipated in the fourth quarter.
Those will come back.
In fact one of them as already been completed and the other one is on track.
We're back on track now.
And then the other one was is as we went into December we had some labor costs that was out of whack that we had to get back in line.
So I think what you'll see in the first quarter is you'll see that start to come back off and get more in line with the trend that we had seen before.
Thank you.
The next question is from line of Alexia Howard from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You allude a couple of times to a bit of uncertainty around the outlook for the milk prices.
How concerned are you about the New Zealand drought situation and the drought situation in California at the moment? Well Alexia it's one of those things that when you look at the total production in New Zealand you would say it probably shouldn't have as big as impact as what it does.
But at the same time the uncertainty for us I'll just use one example for you; as we looked at the New Zealand news when it came out two or three weeks ago the impact that it had on butter prices butter prices in the last three weeks are up 17.5% just on Fonterra coming out and saying that their back half production was going to be down 1.5%-3%.
So that just leads to -- it just causes me to hesitate a bit when I thought we were on a consistent roll down that it may flip back up a little bit here in the meantime.
But if you look at the broader long-term effect with the EU coming of a quarter in April and we've seen reports that say that Germany's cow count is up 23 000 head the Netherland's cow count is up 33 000 head the U.S.
cow count from a year ago was up 100 000.
You start adding all that together we still haven't seen China come back into the market.
So from an export perspective exports are up 7.5% and it's been on a consistent decline.
You got a U.S.
strong dollar.
A lot of those things work to say that we ought to see this continue to go down but I think it going to mitigate to some degree as we go from Q1 to Q2 and then in the second half of the year.
Great.
And then as my follow-up could I ask you is there any commentary you could give us or any help that you can give us on the relative profitability of branded milk versus private label either in terms of cents per gallon or differences in pricing? Just any sort of indications about what the gap there is would be incredibly helpful.
Thank you.
And I will pass it on.
I'll turn that one over to Chris and let him speak to that.
Yes that's a good question Alexia.
So obviously as you know our brands are more profitable than our private label offering.
The challenge is any kind of meaningful averages because those differences are very different across the different brands.
So I'd say using a factor of in some cases 50% 75% more profitable is the range but again it's very different so.
So the mix of which brands we're talking about relative to private label is also important component as well.
And actually just quickly going back on your question on New Zealand it's probably helpful to keep in mind that in the fourth quarter of their growing season so in the March April May quarter in a typically year New Zealand's production in that fourth quarter of their growing season is only about 18% of the full year.
So clearly the fourth quarter under index is less than fair share.
So to the extent that there is a drought starting to emerge it's in a seasonal lower period of production.
So we'll probably have less of an impact then if the draught were in the heavier kind of in their spring flush.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Robert Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Yes I understand the decision not to give annual guidance and given everything that Dean has been through but you do have some consensus numbers that are pretty high up there around $0.90.
And I guess I just wanted to know Gregg if you can say whether this is still within the realm of reason to have expectations that high.
I mean most people are basing it on kind of a return to normal for EBIT cents per gallon.
And the industry has changed in the last couple of years.
So is there anything you can say about whether it makes sense to at least have that as a potential scenario to get back to that normal level? Well I think what we talked about in our prepared statement and that really is all about we got to make sure that what we're doing right now is sequentially continuing to move back towards that.
But I think 2015 is much more of a rebuilding process as we try to rebuild our P&amp;L.
And I to say do we believe that $0.08 is still a good OI [ph] per gallon on a long-term basis absolutely.
And I like the sequential improvement we're seeing quarter-to-quarter.
So I don't think there is anything in the marketplace today that tells us that overtime we change it back to those types of levels.
Maybe a follow-up to that is you talked a lot about this distribution penalty.
That is a result I suppose of having to close some plants and reducing the territory of your coverage.
How long is that distribution penalty going to continue to be an issue as you close another plant and you I presume try to reduce drivers on the road as well? I think yes.
I mean what you try to do in those environments is I think what we're seen a bit right now is just trying to get the facilities settled down once we've taken on additional volume as we've consolidate it and continue to work on their efficiencies.
But from a logistics perspective we continue to work every day to be more efficient effective in each of those routes.
So if you think about terms -- of being a part between 250 and 300 miles around the given facility you're always looking to increase your effectiveness of those routes.
That means you're going to probably look at frequency.
You're going to look at drop sizes and continue to optimize your routes system.
So we are always looking at our routes and how do we make them more effective and efficient.
So I don't think -- you'll see that for a while.
We talked about transitory costs being 90 to 120 days at the shut of facility down to kind of work through it.
So as we continue to shut facilities down there will always be some lag in that process.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Amit Sharma from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Amit.
Good morning Amit.
Chris thanks for providing the color on diesel.
Can you please do the same for resin as well? Just give us an idea of what is the impact or what is the likely impact of lower resin costs? And then did I hear it correctly that the compensation -- higher compensation penalties are going to be sort of equally distributed throughout the quarters at $10 million or is it more lumpy than that? And then I have a follow-up after that.
No.
That's correct.
The compensation negative overlap is approximately equal per quarter I think we said 10 million that's a good number to work from and not a lot of lumpiness.
The lumpiness to the extent there is any will be more associated with the LPI component which will tie to stock price performance.
On resin if you go back and look at plastic news kind of one of the trade rags that publishes over the last six or eight quarters I think resin has been sequentially up every quarter.
So unlike some of the more recent phenomenon you've seen and some of the energy complex as quoted by an industry publication "Resin prices have been climbing." So that's a dynamic that we have billion dealing with.
I think our forward outlook on resin would be stable but probably we don't see the same benefit in resin that the broader energy complex is seeing maybe in diesel because the resin that we work with is more of natural gas feedstock than a diesel feedstock.
All right.
That's great there.
And Gregg just wanted to go back to the branded portfolio.
And it looks like your white milk regional branded portfolio is still struggling in terms of either margins or volume.
So as you look forward I mean what do you need to do to get a better balance between not suffering on the volume side and yet maintain margins or recover margins from what you have seen over the last 12 months or so? Well I think first and foremost is as we -- as the prices come down trying to manage our gap to that closer to the historical $0.60 range versus $0.66.
I think will be helpful.
And I think it's interesting because you look at that I mean historically when milk prices are up our brand mix goes down.
And it usually runs somewhere between 35% and 37% 38%.
And that's -- so we're on the low end of that now.
I think you'll see that start to come back as we get -- as prices start to go down historically that's what we've seen.
But again we're in the -- a bit on pressure than in territory here.
So I would guess that would be the biggest thing that we'll see.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Just maybe in terms of a bit more clarity on the Q1 outlook and particularly the low end of the range in that you mentioned the volume declines embedded in your guidance but also alluded to some other factors.
So I would think the transitory costs are less of a headwind.
The shrink cost should be beneficial.
So is there anything worth knowing that would keep you at $0.12 in EPS in Q1? No I think it's just the uncertainty in the category.
So volume is going to be the big driver for us in Q1.
And I think outside of that most of the other things that we mentioned as far as helping us sequentially in Q3 to Q4 I think will continue from Q4 into Q1.
Okay.
And then Gregg just one follow-up if I could.
You mentioned the excess capacity still in your network and we have been seeing some of these smaller milk processors out there manufacturing private label plant-based beverages almond milk for retailers.
If I could just ask what is your opportunity and interest maybe in also running some of those products through your facilities to maybe better leverage those assets.
John we're always looking for opportunities to increase our effectiveness.
So we are always looking for opportunities whether it's to run other types of products or more dairy through each of our facilities.
So yes we are always open to finding ways to increase that.
And the same goes on the distribution side we are always looking for cost effective ways to increase our drop sizes or fill our trucks up.
One of the issues that we constantly have is that our trucks are not full and one of the big initiatives that we are on right now is how do we fill those trucks up? </strong>gentlemen.
There are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Gregg Tanner for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.