Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information containing those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section are Mr.
Gregg Tanner our CEO; and Chris Bellairs our CFO.
Gregg will start us off with a review of the first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we released our first quarter results which contained several significant highlights.
First we reported first quarter earnings that exceeded the top-end of our previous guidance.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $52 million and adjusted diluted earnings of $0.24 per share.
Importantly this marks the third consecutive quarter of sequentially improving operating results and the highest operating income performance since Q2 of 2013.
Second in the first quarter we strengthened our balance sheet and improved our liquidity.
We enhanced the composition of our capital structure as we executed our comprehensive debt refinancing.
We now have a capital structure that is more appropriate for a company of our size and industry position and gives us the flexibility to fund operational and strategic objectives.
And with improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance our total leverage improved more than a full turn.
And third last week we announced the launch of DairyPure the country's first and largest fresh white milk national brand.
Having successfully launched TruMoo and TruMoo Protein we are proud of our track record of innovation and believe DairyPure will provide benefits to consumers our category our customers and our company.
When combined it's clear to me that we're changing the game with operational excellence disciplined financial stewardship and innovation as we extend our leadership position in the dairy industry.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I'm going to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape.
We are projecting that in the near-term the global fundamentals should remain overall supportive to our business against the backdrop of slowing supply growth and rebalancing demand.
Total milk production of the top seven exporters is expected to continue to increase through 2015 albeit at a slower pace as compared to the robust growth experienced in 2014.
We continue to see ongoing supply momentum in the U.S.
as increases to both the domestic herd and yields more than offset the impact from the continued drought in California.
We see EU production increasing 1% in the second half of 2015 with the quota system now lifted.
This comes on top of last year's impressive milk production total.
Even New Zealand is anticipated to have a relatively flat year-over-year milk solids production level for their full season production following improved moisture levels in March.
Finally China also appears to have improved its domestic supply-to-demand balance following heavy dairy investment.
On the demand side together China and Russia are driving the first demand-driven contraction in international trade since 2009.
In Q1 Chinese import demand for powdered products remained significantly below year prior levels.
The Russian import demand is being vigorously enforced and has disrupted trade flows leading to increase competition in several key international markets.
We have therefore seen significant declines in U.S.
exports exacerbated by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which is leading to a more normal seasonal rebuilding of domestic dairy stocks this year.
On balance despite supply growth slowing due to falling prices and a challenging overlap with weakening currencies and demand side constraints we have seen price declines at the GDT auction over the past few rounds which could result in reduced global prices in the upcoming months.
Class I prices are expected to remain relatively steady in Q2 2015 as domestic dairy commodity prices across the complex remain mixed.
Heavy inventories and reduced export opportunities have led the continued declines in non-fat dry milk prices in Q1.
For Class II and Class III strong domestic demand and weaker than expected inventory growth have kept the domestic butter market supported in Q1 2015.
And increased domestic demand has largely been offset by increased production and reduced export volumes helping lead to relatively steady domestic cheddar prices.
We expect seasonal inventory building to continue in Q2 as U.S.
milk production reaches peak levels.
Increased inventory levels and a significant gap between domestic and international prices should mean diminished export opportunities in the second half.
For the second half we expect Class I raw milk cost to gradually and sequentially increase but the global milk production growth and reduced import demand should mute significant upside price risk to the Class I price.
However given the multitude of factors that influence the dairy commodity environment we believe prices remain volatile.
As expected raw milk cost declined meaningfully in the first quarter and the $16.79 per hundred-weight quarterly average represents a decline of $6.80 per hundred-weight or 29% sequentially and a decline of $5.59 per hundred-weight or 25% on a year-over-year basis.
Putting the first quarter's phasing into context on a per gallon basis the cost of raw milk declined $0.34 in January $0.20 in February and another $0.6 in March.
The magnitude and phasing of the cost declines was one of the main reasons why we believe momentum would build as we move through the quarter.
From a nearing quarter perspective raw milk costs are leveling and stabilizing.
April's per hundred-weight raw milk cost of $15.50 marked the sixth consecutive month of declines but represents only a $0.005 per gallon decline sequentially.
May's announced price of $15.83 per hundred-weight represents about a $0.03 per gallon increase sequentially and we expect a similar per gallon increase in June.
Turning to pricing during the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons in the grocery channel generally increased as Class I M over declined.
Overall in Q1 the Class I Mover average decreased $0.60 per gallon and the margin over milk increased from $1.38 per gallon in Q4 to $1.70 per gallon.
As compared to December's margin over milk exit rate of $1.47 the Q1 average increased $0.23 over a year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective or in Q1 as we experienced significant raw milk declines we witnessed retailers restoring greater profitability to the dairy case.
But within the quarter the monthly margin over milk change didn't correlate with the monthly Class I declines I previously discussed.
It's noteworthy that in March while raw milk costs declined $0.06 a gallon the margin over milk actually declined $0.02 a gallon as retailers started to slowly pass back to consumers some of the cost declines that they had retained in January and February.
March's margin over milk exit rate was $1.71 per gallon.
In the quarter our volume performance continued to be impacted by high albeit dropping prices at retail.
In the first quarter total volumes across all products of 662 million gallons were in line with our expectation and represent a 3.3% year-over-year decline in a modest deterioration from the second half of 2014 run rate.
In the first quarter specifically within fluid milk volumes on an unadjusted basis which does not normalize for the number and quality of days between periods declined 3% as compared to year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were down across all channels except food service and especially within the large-format channel.
In the quarter retail prices for private label white milk didn't decline penny-for-penny with raw milk cost declines.
And we were able to realize price for our branded products especially in large-format channel.
So Q1 volumes reflect largely what we expected: that the impetus for meaningful fluid milk volume improvement would be price declines at retail.
In Q1 retailers did not effect material price declines as they appear focused on first restoring a certain amount of profitability through their pricing actions.
Based on USDA reported data for December industry fluid milk volumes improved sequentially from a 3.7% decline in the third quarter to a 3.4% decline in the fourth quarter.
And as compared to the third quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined 20 basis points to 35.7% in the fourth quarter.
January is the only month the USDA has reported for 2015 to date.
For the month of January industry fluid milk volumes have continued to marginally improve with a 3.1% decline year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Foods share decreased to 35.5% from 35.7% in the first quarter of 2014.
The overall health of the category remains an area of concern.
Although the margin over milk has increased with our expectations phenomenal raw milk cost fluctuations in Q2 we don't know if consumers will see significant price declines at retail in the near-term.
While recent RFP activity has resulted in net customer wins and incremental volume that is coming online we expect to continue to experience volume declines that are roughly in line with recent category declines in fluid milk and that will drive low-single-digit declines for our total volume performance in Q2.
As I have mentioned before we expected soft category volumes in Q1 with raw milk cost declining rapidly but retailers only marginally reflecting lower private label retail prices on shelf.
So within our branded portfolio we likewise primarily focused on net price realization.
And because of channel dynamics the benefits occurred almost exclusively within the large format channel.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands average $3.94 at retail down $0.03 versus Q1 of 2014 and down $0.14 versus Q4 of 2014.
This decline also includes the disproportionate impact of certain large retailers choosing to significantly lower their branded milk prices at retail.
As a result even with almost a $0.50 per gallon year-over-year raw milk cost decline the price gap between our brands and private label expanded 26% year-over-year from $0.62 to $0.78.
The end result on a year-over-year basis was that our branded white milk portfolio returned to levels of profitability in line with our longer term norms despite volumes being down 3% year-over-year and in line with the category.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q1 we averaged 35.3%.
This compares to a 35.4% brand mix in Q4 of 2015 and 35.1% in Q1 2014.
Given the widening price gaps at retail we are very pleased with our branded mix performance.
It speaks volumes to our brand equity and loyal consumer following.
Moving to the flavored milk side overall on a year-over-year basis our flavored milk volumes were down less than 1% for the quarter a noticeable improvement to recent quarterly trends.
With respect to TruMoo our flavored milk national brand it's a $700 million brand across all channels.
Since its launch in 2011 TruMoo's ACV has grown more than 18 points to 73% as we begin offering TruMoo in extended shelf life format.
Over the same timeframe TruMoo has gained five points of share.
It's the number one flavored milk brand with nearly four times the volume share of its nearest competitor Nesquik.
In regards to our national launch of TruMoo Protein Plus our products have secured 37.5% of retail shelves and almost a 9% share of the protein-enhanced beverage category.
Highlighting the achievements and successes of TruMoo provides the perfect segue to DairyPure.
As most of you know last week we launched the first and largest fresh white milk national brand DairyPure.
We believe DairyPure is a game changer for us and that it will reinvigorate the dairy case.
As the largest milk processor in the country and backed by a national footprint we believe Dean Foods is the only company that could implement a launch of this magnitude.
Our company has done this before.
We launched TruMoo in 2011 and it now has 84% brand awareness nationally and is the largest flavored milk brand in the U.S.
Our success with TruMoo gives us confidence that today's consumer appreciates a national brand presence and promise that is endorsed by the regional brands they know and love.
DairyPure is a winning proposition and provides a number of clear benefits to consumers our category our customers and the company.
For the consumer DairyPure is on trend with their desire for a clean label local fresh protein and nutrient-packed products.
DairyPure isn't just a new label; it's a set of messages to consumers that dispels some myths about white milk.
We call it our Five-Point Purity Promise which states that our farmers pledged not to use artificial growth hormones we test all milk for antibiotics it's continually quality tested to ensure purity it's only from cows fed a healthy diet and it's cold-shipped from our local dairy.
Consumers have told us they care about these things and while our milk has had these qualities for years now we're able to talk about it on a national platform.
DairyPure is also an easy transition for consumers building on regional white milk brands they are familiar with in value.
During 2014 we transitioned our regional milk labels to a common look and feel to ease the transition to a national brand.
To be clear those labels now carry the DairyPure name prominently displayed alongside the regional brand logo.
For the category our national brand fills a void in the dairy industry.
DairyPure provides a national platform to educate consumers on the health and nutrition benefits of conventional white milk as a cost-effective source of protein in their diets.
Our DairyPure national branding efforts will be an addition to milk MilkPEP's and DMI's efforts and are designed to elevate fresh pure white milk in the minds of consumers.
Our retail customers have already embraced DairyPure because it simplifies their world with a single UPC code that will enhance their efficiency and effectiveness while retaining the benefits of regional brand equity that was built up over time.
DairyPure enables national customers to run the same branded feature ad from coast to coast.
And for the company it allows us to speak with one voice via national media.
We will be able to achieve national media buying efficiencies allowing us to get a bigger return from our advertising and promotions spend.
It also provides a national platform for future innovation and the ability to cross-promote with various CPG companies for unique marketing opportunities.
We have developed a strong launch schedule for DairyPure products starting with fresh fluid white milk which after the flawless executed launch in April is in stores now.
Creams school milk and buttermilk will begin to roll out in June.
National advertising began last week and Sunday newspaper coupons will appear this month as well.
We are putting a significant marketing effort behind this national brand initiative to help ensure its success.
2015 will be a year of investing in the DairyPure rollout and we anticipate seeing the incremental opportunities and benefits of this national brand playing out over the long-term.
Getting back to operating results our total net landed cost represents the all-in operating costs of our plant and logistics assets and personnel net of functional revenue like hauling revenue and excluding incentive compensation and certain other insurance adjustments.
To us it represents the controllable supply chain costs of the organization.
The rate of year-over-year landed cost per gallon took a step up in Q1 largely reflective of volume deleverage and to a lesser extent front-loaded employee wage and healthcare cost increases.
We now expect this higher cost per gallon growth to continue as we move through 2015 as volume deleverage stemming from our pricing actions outpaces the benefits we realized from plant closures capital-related efficiencies and robust cost productivity initiatives.
While still driving our full-year cost productivity agenda across procurement operations and logistics with volume and fixed cost deleverage we believe it will take longer than expected to see flat year-over-year landed cost growth.
We reported adjusted operating income of $52 million for the quarter a $45 million year-over-year increase versus last year's $7 million.
For the quarter operating income per gallon improved to $0.08 a gallon which represents a $0.04 per gallon sequential increase.
The improvement in our net price realization is reflective of pricing actions taken in the quarter.
First for Q1 gross margin per gallon improved $0.071 sequentially.
And second versus Q1 2014 our gross profit margin per gallon was up 19% as we benefited from declining Class I and Class II costs and pricing strategies to offset the impact of a 3% volume decline.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of the financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q1 results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
But before we discuss the financial results in more detail I'd like to take a minute to review the GAAP write-down we took in the quarter.
In conjunction with the decision to launch DairyPure we determined that certain of our intangible assets are more appropriately characterized and classified as finite-lived assets as opposed to their previous designation as indefinite-lived assets.
Accordingly we took a non-cash charge of $69 million net of tax which is reflected in our GAAP financial results but has been eliminated from our adjusted results in keeping with our practice of excluding nonrecurring items for the purpose of comparability.
Additionally for GAAP purposes over the next five years we expect incremental amortization of approximately $20 million per year associated with these now finite-lived intangible assets.
Moving on to our operating results and starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year-ago quarter total volumes declined 3% in Q1 as prices at retail while dropping remained relatively high from a historical perspective.
Gross profit increased due to favorable cost declines and the pricing mechanism for our Class II products price adjustments for our private label products pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio and declining shrink costs correlated to the precipitous commodity declines.
The positive impact of these was partially offset by fixed cost deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $477 million in Q1.
This represents a $61 million improvement almost a 15% increase versus the year-ago quarter.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $16 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses decreased $2 million resulting from productivity initiatives and lower fuel costs.
Decreases were partially offset by volume deleverage the distributor penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including an increase in health benefit costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with operating results.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive comp were only up $4 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $45 million to $52 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The increase primarily stems from the more than doubling of our average-weighted debt maturity profile following the successful $700 million eight-year bond issuance completed in February.
In 2014 our overall debt duration was skewed by the shift in debt mix caused by the repurchase and ultimate redemption of our 9.75% 2018 senior notes with lower priced and shorter term revolving credit facilities.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded Q1 adjusted net income of $22 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.24.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $90 million a 96% increase from $46 million in the prior year period.
Overall our operating results are reflective of solid execution within an easing commodity environment.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
In Q1 we delivered total free cash flow of $138 million including $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund.
This represented a $133 million year-over-year improvement in free cash flow performance primarily due to the improved operating results commodity cost declines lower working capital and the tax refund.
Our year-over-year invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $50 million primarily due to lower dairy commodity price environment.
As of the end of the first quarter total net debt outstanding was $823 million down $78 million from the end of Q4.
The sequential improvement to net debt reflects the rapid deleveraging due to improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance.
For reasons that I will cover in a minute we no longer have a total leverage ratio covenant but on a comparable basis our Q1 total leverage improved over a full turn to 3.35 times net debt to EBITDA.
This really is a great cash-generating business.
And as fast as we levered up in 2014 we're beginning to lever down in 2015.
It's worth noting that at the end of Q1 for covenant purposes with our cash-on-hand exceeding our senior secured indebtedness our senior secured net leverage ratio was zero times.
In February we completed a $700 million offering with essentially investment-grade covenants.
And in March we entered into a new $450 million senior secured revolving credit facility and concurrently amended and restated our existing $550 million receivables securitization facility.
Combined they provide us with an optimized $1 billion in total revolving facilities.
Over a relatively short timeframe we significantly lengthened the company's maturity profile enhanced accessible liquidity obtained greater covenant flexibility and reduced pricing.
Immediately following our debt refinancing Dean Foods' unsecured rating was upgraded to BB- by S&amp;P.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
The largest part of our business is our fresh fluid milk category.
It's a category we believe we can thrive in.
It's an extremely large category with strong household penetration and it's one of the largest most profitable categories for retailers.
Milk has strong health and wellness credentials and it's on trend with consumers growing focus on fresh local protein-dense products with clean labels.
We take great pride in the products that we provide.
We are also very proud of our company.
Dean Foods is the largest player in milk.
We boast a coast-to-coast network enabling strong partnerships with national retail and food service accounts our large network offers opportunities to distribute and optimize capacity to drive efficiency and to lower unit cost.
We also believe our portfolio of brands is a competitive advantage and complements our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network in one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct-store delivery distribution systems.
And now we are the first company to provide a fresh white milk national brand while building on the power and consumer loyalty of our regional brands.
In summary we're executing a clear and focused vision for our company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion while never compromising on quality safety or service.
Looking forward with expected volume declines of low-single-digits and taking normal seasonality and other factors into account we expect Q2 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.20 and $0.30 per share.
We are changing the game with operational excellence disciplined financial stewardship and innovation as we extend our leadership position in the dairy industry.
And as the dairy industry leader we are uniquely positioned to lead the renaissance of the dairy category.
Lastly I'll add that I'm extremely proud of the employees that comprise this organization.
With their expertise and through their dedication we believe that we can drive shareholder value as we leverage our improving operating results and free cash flow performance our enhanced capital structure and the incremental opportunities associated with DairyPure.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Your first question comes from the line of Chris Growe [Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.].
Please proceed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just had two questions for you.
I was curious first of all on the branded milk performance.
It was – seems much stronger just given the fact that the price gap widened versus private label.
And perhaps the weakness a year ago was more about just the fact that overall or absolute prices were so high.
Just curious if you could discuss the branded performance anything that may have been unique to the quarter and any kind of any points behind that are worth us knowing about why the brands are still strong this quarter? Yeah.
I think Chris the one thing that we talked about last quarter was crossing over certain price barriers.
And if you remember in Q4 of last year we were up above $4 close to $4.08 I think was the average price in the fourth quarter.
In this quarter we're down in below $4 so down in the $3.95 $3.94 range.
So I think that played a part of that.
I think our – as we have continued to consolidate into stronger regional brands I think that also plays a part.
But I feel very good about where we're at especially with the volume holding up the way it did with the pricing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That was very good.
Thank you.
Just a quick question for you on DairyPure.
I'm curious about the – in terms of procuring the milk is there any incremental cost to sort of let's call it the purity of the milk? And then just curious about your advertising requirements behind the business.
It sounds like you have some savings coming through from advertising but will it be incremental dollars contributed to advertising the brand? Yeah I think – first of all on the milk side we have been rBST-free for a period of time now.
So there is no incremental cost to procuring the milk over and above what we already pay.
I think the second part of that is that as we look at our national and local brand strategies being able to talk to the consumer on a national basis really does allow us to get probably more dollars of advertising out in the marketplace.
It doesn't necessarily mean fewer dollars; it just means that our dollars that we're going to spend will go further as we do that on a national basis and buying media at a national level versus a regional level.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger [Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
LLC].
Please proceed sir.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Hi.
First I just wanted to revisit Chris's question on branded performance.
Gregg as we think about that $0.78 price gap during the quarter and the impact that had on Q1 margins and sustainability of that how are you thinking now about the pros and cons of having that normalize more quickly back to the $0.60 level you target long-term as opposed to continuing to see some near-term margin benefit over the next quarter or two? What's your preference I guess? Yeah.
Well I mean I think if you look at just the health of the category you would like to see the lower prices get reflected over time.
And then I think it becomes a matter of what level of pricing can we sustain from a branded perspective.
I mean if I just go back to – we were at $0.66 in the fourth quarter of last year and we're up to $0.78 now.
I think it's one where – over time as we see the retailers start to take some of the prices down as they've gotten back to the profitability levels that they expect in the category I think we will also see our pricing start to slip a bit.
So I think we'll do everything we can to find that right balance and try to maintain the gap that we think our brands can support.
But I do think you'll see that go back closer to the average over time.
Okay.
One of the things that we've talked about in the last couple of calls is sort of 2015 being a year of uncharted territory for us that we've never lived in a period where we saw milk decline from nearly $24 a hundred-weight back down to $16 a hundred-weight over such a relative short period of time.
And I'd tell you that kind of the same thing on uncharted territory with regard to branded and private label price gaps.
So we're learning more about the price gap and sort of that balancing act that Gregg just described literally every day.
And so that learning continues and we'll continue – our field sales teams and our revenue management folks are working pretty aggressively to find that right balancing act.
Okay thanks both.
And just question one question on DairyPure as well you've talked in the past about having pretty wide range of price gaps on your branded regional trademarks some of which are huge some of which are less substantial.
And as you're planning to migrate away from these trademarks over time what's the risk that you lose some of that enhanced pricing power that you have in selected regions? And I guess do you fully expect to offset that on a national scale by virtue of the higher brand equity and the consistent message and other things? Well I think – let me first and foremost say our regional brands are not going away.
So we do not plan to migrate away from them.
They'll continue to serve as endorsers to DairyPure.
So I think that drives that local value that we see in our local consumers to our regional brands.
So I think from that perspective we would expect that DairyPure will continue to drive the same level if not a bit higher branded gap to private label than what we've seen in the past.
We think we're going to – I mean we're currently planning to invest at leadership levels on the marketing and advertising side.
So we think it will be higher than in recent years as we put more and more behind that brand.
So I'm confident that DairyPure as a whole will help us to maintain the gaps at higher levels than we've had in the past.
Yeah.
Like Gregg said if anything I'd like to believe that the more efficient advertising program that we could run now behind DairyPure actually does the opposite.
It takes the brand that can't support as big of a price gap today and moves them toward the brands that do support the higher gap.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
I don't think I was clear initially on the long-term plan for some of the regional trademarks.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale [KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Congratulations on a solid quarter.
Great.
Thanks Akshay.
Thanks Akshay.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you help us sort of parse out from this quarter's performance what was controllable versus non-controllable in a way right? So the market conditions improved significantly and that's clearly reflective in your results.
You did talk about total delivered cost sort of coming in higher than expected.
So can you just give us a little bit more clarity because you have taken a lot of steps to reduce controllable costs? And it seems like it's getting a little bit delayed in achieving those.
So help us understand the controllable side of your business whether it's price realization or lower costs and how that's showing up in your numbers right now.
Well I think if you look at the quarter itself we obviously benefited from lower dairy commodity costs.
That was probably the big driver.
But I think we also got a lot of price realization.
And I think probably the thing that was different for us than what maybe we had expected is that the retailers didn't go down as much as we had anticipated they might.
So I think that played a bit of a surprise for us.
So volumes we're basically in line with what we had anticipated.
As we get down to the controllables on logistics we were very pleased with the logistics performance in the first quarter.
There remains a tremendous amount of opportunity to reduce our costs from a logistics perspective.
But I feel confident that we're on the right track to get at those.
I think from a plant perspective or a conversion cost perspective we continue to struggle with lower volumes and the deleverage coming at a faster pace than what we had anticipated.
Back when we put many of our plans in place we were looking at 1% to 1.5% type declines and now we're seeing 3%.
So it delevers at a much faster rate.
So we're just trying to play catch-up from a deleverage perspective.
But I still feel very confident that our annual cost reductions are all in place.
We're on target to deliver those.
I think what we've got to do is step that up to the next level to where we started to get at to delever to try to get back to declining costs.
But that gets harder and harder as we delever.
Yeah.
Actually we mentioned in the prepared remarks that the volume growth rate in the first quarter was off a little bit from the back half of last year.
And if you adjust for the lost volume from the RFP in the first half of last year volume was up even more from the first half of last year on kind of an adjusted basis.
So as Gregg said for the logistics and for the plant operations teams that 3.3% volume decline in the first quarter is a meaningful hill to climb.
And so a material part of that minus 2.4% or plus 2.4% growth in landed cost per gallon year-over-year does result from deleverage.
And the other thing we're seeing a bit of and it's not huge at this point but I see a continued shift of mix.
So if you look at our flavored milk which is a little more expensive to produce than our regular white milk volume was actually only down 1% so more in line with history.
And our white milk was down 3.3%.
So that mix starts to impact our cost structure as well.
On top of that kind of following that same vein we feathered back on ice cream production in the fourth quarter last year because of the way the commodity was changing cost.
And we – so that left us with some inventory to catch up on in the first quarter.
And so ice cream gallons produced in the first quarter were up substantially from where they were in the fourth quarter.
So that also creates a mix headwind for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> So just long-term the overall opportunity to lower costs which is definitely a controllable basket for you versus revenue realization I mean you've spent a lot of time in recent months have some new people coming into the firm where do you see the biggest opportunity? And relative to the past year or so is that absolute opportunity bigger or smaller in either of those buckets? Thanks.
Yeah.
I think the cost bucket remains about the same.
We still think the opportunity is what we have always thought it was.
It has been a quarter or two behind where we thought it was mainly due to deleverage and getting some of the projects completed.
So I think on the cost side it remains about the same.
I think what we're learning as we go through some of our branding exercises and some of our pricing protocols I think we've got opportunities on the revenue side.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman [Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess following up on Akshay's line of questioning a little bit.
I guess it just sounds like Gregg your volumes for the industry are coming in worse than when you gave us kind of a longer-term plan a couple of years ago with the spin-out from WhiteWave and you're kind of saying that cost per gallon is moving up as a function of that.
My sense is that while the DairyPure product makes a lot of sense it's – these things often are very costly.
And I guess you've also got this incremental – correct me if I'm wrong but $0.15 now of non-cash goodwill expense running through your P&amp;L.
So I guess I'm just – are you still comfortable given all these moving parts with your kind of long-term goals of mid-single-digit EBIT growth or kind of how do we judge all these moving parts now? Yeah.
Eric I would tell you that first of all Q1 is just a quarter.
So I think the softness in some of our cost structure I think we'll see that bounce back over time.
I'm not concerned with that.
And I'd tell you I'm still very comfortable with mid-single-digit EBITDA growth.
I'm not – that doesn't make me nervous at all at this point.
In fact probably I feel more encouraged today than I did two years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> And Chris can you comment how do we think – like is that correct in terms of the goodwill expense per share and are you going to restate numbers or is that like from second quarter onward that this annual expense is now going to be hitting the – albeit non-cash going to be hitting the P&amp;L? So yes that's how it'll – we think a one-time write-down here in the first quarter which you saw in our GAAP result this morning and then we will amortize it for the balance of the year and for the next five years.
But as we said in the prepared remarks it's part of GAAP results.
It won't be part of our adjusted results.
So like other items like this we've had in the past a non-cash charge that's not part of our normal operating results for comparability purposes we'll adjust it out to give people better visibility to how the business is actually performing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll follow up offline I guess.
I'm just not – I'm not sure why it isn't part of operating results albeit with the understanding it's not cash.
But we can follow up later.
Thank you.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam [Stephens Inc.].
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Farha.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you just go through your branding and pricing protocols as they stand now with private label TruMoo and DairyPure? Does private label reprice on a monthly basis and TruMoo and DairyPure do as well? How do we think about pricing in these three areas? Okay.
I'll start with private label.
In most cases it reprices monthly that is as the federal market orders come out we will reprice many of the private label agreements that we have or adjusted in the agreement as to how we adjust for private label.
So that will be adjusted monthly.
I think on the branded side whether it's TruMoo or DairyPure we will adjust as we see the market demand calling for.
So if private labels starts to come down and our gap gets to where we start to see volume concerns with our brand we'll adjust accordingly.
But we'll continue to press the brand pricing as much as we can so we don't – so we can always try to find that right balance between volume and price.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how much control do you have on what the price of TruMoo or DairyPure is on store shelves on a ongoing basis? Well we would like to believe we have a lot.
I think in most cases we do set the pricing in most of our retails.
But there are some that will decide to invest behind a brand and take the brand lower for their own merchandising purposes.
So I think in general I would say we have pretty good control but there are retailers who will decide to somehow change the pricing on our brand structure.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then just turning to capacity it doesn't sound like you're announcing any incremental closures of plants given the 3% or so volume declines you're experiencing.
How do you think you and/or the industry is going to handle the capacity situation versus the volume declines that the category is experiencing? Yeah.
I would first say that we have not announced any additional closures but we continue to look at our network and the optimization of our network on an ongoing basis.
And if obviously at a 3% decline in our volumes we have to continue to look at opportunities to adjust our network.
I can't really speak to how the industry will respond because I've not been very good at predicting that in the past and would not want to try and predict that in the future.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Farha similar to what Gregg said to Eric you have to keep in mind too that Q1 is just one quarter.
For 2014 our volume growth performance after adjusting for the RFP lost volume was better than that.
The category was better.
And if you watch the category from Q3 to Q4 and Q4 to Q1 it is still soft softer than historic norms but it's also recovering.
So we see the category headed back in the right direction.
As raw milk prices have come down as consumers have gotten some of that benefit at the dairy case the category has begun to recover.
So I think it'd be a little premature to kind of declare the category in dire straits going forward and not take into account the viewpoint that as commodity prices come down consumers will get some relief at the shelf.
Yeah.
And I think we've seen that historically.
So if you just look back at Q3 of 2014 it was – the category was down 3.7%; in Q4 it was at 3.4%; and Q1 at least of January was at 3.1%.
So I think we're seeing it move in the right direction.
But we really haven't seen the prices fall yet either.
So I think we anticipate that the category will continue to get healthier.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma [BMO Capital Markets].
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Morning Amit.
Chris just a follow up to your comment on volume in Q1.
What are we expecting for the full year? Are we expecting a similar level of decline through the rest of the year? Or are we expected to get better as we go through Q3 and Q4? So we're kind of sticking with just one quarter out right now Amit.
And we're still saying that for the second quarter we think low-single-digit declines are where we'll land.
Yeah.
And can you talk about the branded performers across channels because at least the channels that we look at the measured channel data on our ride (56:11) that showed a pretty dramatic decline high-single-digit.
That's certainly not what you're reporting.
So are you performing better in non-measured channels or is the data not showing correctly? So yeah.
In large format you probably have to compare not just our performance on brands but our performance relative to the category because as it has for a while large format in total has been under some duress.
So we're definitely seeing softness in large format measured channels on brands but we're seeing it across the category as well.
Hence the reason why our mix has stayed pretty stable.
Amit we also have if you look at the first quarter we had a major retailer who went from our brand to their private label brand or their store brand and that adjustment would've made – but it went at the same pricing as our brand.
So that may have...
I see.
That may show a bit as well.
Definitely.
I think that's probably one of the drivers.
And then Gregg looking forward right the rest of the year your commentary on milk prices certainly sequentially -- it might become less of a tailwind versus what we saw in Q1 and probably in Q2 as well.
If that is the case and volumes don't get materially better than what they have done in the first half of the year is there a carryover impact of the improvement that we've seen in the first quarter that will help you in this back half or not? I'm just trying to understand – I understand that you're not giving back-half guidance and that's fair right but just trying to understand what other driver? Is it going to be dependent entirely on what milk prices do and where volumes are? Or is there any residual impact of what we're seeing at retail today that'll help you in the back half? Well I think if I look at the things that I would expect to continue to improve first and foremost it's going to be the continued improvement of TruMoo and DairyPure on those fronts just simply because we're introducing those to the market and putting national promotion advertising behind it.
So I would expect those to continue.
In fact DairyPure not in the first quarter we'll see the benefit of that as we go through the year.
But we have seen improvement in the flavored milk category.
I would expect that to continue as we continue to educate consumers around milk.
So I think those two will continue.
I think you'll see our cost benefits continue as we go through the year.
And if the category starts to get better we'll get momentum from that obviously.
So I feel very confident as we go through the rest of the year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Amit.
Your final question comes from the line of Robert Moskow [Credit Suisse Securities].
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you.
With the supply-demand balance looking much better now you could see this year potentially coming in quite well and maybe even above the $100 million to $150 million free cash flow guidance that you gave as kind of a normalized level.
And of course you have that tax benefit in first quarter also.
So let's say that happens Chris do you have a priority for where that cash would go? Do you think you could even buy back some stock now that your capital structure is where you wanted it to be? Yeah.
So good question.
So we've talked historically about kind of the four places where we would deploy free cash flow the dividend buybacks paying down debt and reinvesting in the business.
And so clearly the dividend remains a priority importance for us.
And then after that I think you see us kind of go into the other end of that spectrum and beginning out to reinvest in the business and the DairyPure initiative clearly an example of that.
But the ability to opportunistically be in the market and return cash to shareholders via a repo if that's an option that we think and the board of directors thinks makes sense it's absolutely something that remains kind of in our toolkit.
Yeah.
I guess the reinvesting in DairyPure part I would just assume that would be a normal part of your SG&amp;A because you're generating savings from consolidating your regional advertising buys.
So while I appreciate the comment that you want to build up the DairyPure brand shouldn't it be kind of self-financing? Some is and some – like any brand launch there's some investment cycle at the early part of that as well.
So there's a piece that comes from existing advertising levels that are in the run rate and then there's a piece also that I would characterize as being incremental to the run rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
And thank you all again for joining us for the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And have a great day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.