Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's conference is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the Internet on the Dean Foods' corporate Web site.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
I would like to turn the conference over to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Sire please go ahead.
Thank you Michele and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our Web site at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' Web site.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our Web site beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today's earnings release.
Participating with me today in the prepared section of the casll Mr.
Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of the first quarter performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer Gregg Tanner.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
As you may have seen Tom Davis resigned from our Board of Directors on Friday I'd like to acknowledge his 14 years of service and note that he leaves at a time when we feel more optimistic than ever about the future of Dean Foods.
We expect that the board will be ready to announce succession plans in the regular course.
In the interim our buy logs provided ample clarity for us to continue with the business for the company and that is exactly what we intend to do.
On that note I will turn our focus to our Q2 earnings.
This morning we reported second quarter earnings that included adjusted operating income of $67 million.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential improving financial results.
Our gross profit on an absolute dollar basis and our operating income on a per gallon basis was the highest we have had since 2012.
Our adjusted diluted earnings of $0.33 per share also exceeded the top end of our previous guidance.
During the quarter we also successfully launched DairyPure the country's first and largest fresh white milk national brand that we believe over the long-term will provide incremental benefits to consumers or category or customers in our company.
I'm very pleased with the operational and financial performance for the business this quarter and really excited about the prospects going forward.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on dairy commodity landscape and it’s impact on retail pricing.
As expected raw milk cost increased gradually within the second quarter but the $15.82 per 100 weight quarterly average represents a decline of $0.97 or 6% sequentially and a decline of $7.84 or 33% a year-over-year basis.
Putting the second quarter’s phasing into context on a per gallon basis the cost of raw milk declined half a penny in April before rising $0.03 in both May and June.
In regards to the dairy commodity environment we believe both domestic and international supply growth will continue to outpace demand.
Accordingly in the near-term we see U.S.
raw milk prices continuing to trade in a relatively tight band with limited potential for price escalation.
From a nearing quarter perspective we expect the raw milk cost will continue to be significantly lower than prior year levels and will remain relatively stable.
July’s per 100 weight raw milk cost of $16.53 mark our third consecutive month with a $0.03 per gallon increase.
But August announced price of $16.28 per 100 weight represents about $0.02 per gallon decrease.
Sequentially and we expect per gallon prices to increase about half a penny per gallon in September.
All in we expect raw milk cost for the third quarter to increase about 4% sequentially.
However this would still represent a 30% decline on a year-over-year basis.
For the foreseeable future we see cheese or Class III continuing to be the driver of Class I raw milk cost.
But with the current large cost differentials between U.S.
and international dairy products as well as the price gap between Class III and Class IV domestically outside of the nearing quarter the market seen somewhat unsettled and subject to volatility.
Turning to pricing.
During the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and retail price of private label gallons in the grocery channel declined each month and at a rate greater than the change in the cost of raw milk.
Despite the Class I Mover average increasing just $0.05 per gallon over the quarter the margin over milk declined $0.18.
As a result June’s margin over milk exit rate was $1.53 as compared to March’s margin over milk exit rate of $1.71.
From a quarterly average perspective the margin over milk decreased from $1.70 per gallon in Q1 to $1.60 per gallon in Q2.
You will recall that in March the margin over milk declined more than the raw milk cost decline as retailers began passing back to consumers some of the cost declines that they had retained in January and February.
We continue to see this behavior in Q2.
For each month within the quarter prices at retail declined at a higher rate than the cost increases.
As a result the margin over milk’s quarterly average and the June exit rates are more in line with historic norms.
Category volume has improved modestly since the back half of 2014 and we believe lower prices at retail are one of the drivers.
I’ll discuss a few others later in the call.
In the second quarter total Dean Foods’ volumes across all products of 653 million gallons were in line with our expectations and represent a 3.1% year-over-year decline.
Fluid milk volumes continue to represent about 75% of our total volume.
For Q2 fluid white milk volume performance continue to be impacted by category declines channel dynamics and our rate realization strategy on branded fluid milk products.
Although our total flavored milk volume performance was down less than 1%.
Across our other non fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were partially offset by an increase in our ice cream volume performance.
Specific to fluid milk in the second quarter our volumes on a unadjusted basis declined 3.4% as compared to a year ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were down across all channels except food service.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid volumes through May and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid volume’s declines improved sequentially from a 3.1% decline in the fourth quarter of 2014 to a 2.2% decline in the first quarter of 2015.
As compared to the fourth quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volumes declined 30 basis points to 35.3% during the first quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended May industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 2.5% year-over-year on an unadjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Food share decreased to 35% from a 35.9% in the second quarter of 2014.
It’s worth noting that for the full quarter within retail channels IRI data indicates that fluid milk volumes declined 1.6% as compared to the year ago period.
That is the strongest category performance as measured by IRI since Q3 of 2012.
Coming into Q2 with nominal raw milk cost fluctuations we didn't know if retailers would provide consumers with significantly lower price label retail prices on shelf.
Retailers did in fact reduce pricing at a higher rate than the cost increases and as compared to last year.
We saw retail and category volume declines improved in Q2.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing share and operational performance as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
We remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect the level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
However we're beginning to see a lower commodity environment translate into an increased competitive environment.
From a commercial perspective with the category showing signs of improvement we continue to focus on striking the right balance withdrawing volume performance and price realization.
Within the grocery channel at retail our brands averaged $3.73 at retail down $0.35 versus Q2 of 2014 and down $0.21 versus Q1 of 2015.
These declines are driven by promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch and also included the disproportionate impact of certain large retailers choosing to significantly lower branded milk prices of retail.
As a result even with almost a $0.68 per gallon year-over-year raw milk cost decline.
The price gap between our brands and private label has expanded 20% year-over-year from $0.64 to $0.77.
Moreover as compared to Q1 of 2015 there is only a penny decline sequentially.
Before discussing mix I'd like to remind all of you looking at IRI or Neilson data that in Q4 of 2014 we have one of our large customers within the club channel switch from Dean branded products to Private Label products.
Since we provided the milk before and after this label switch with no change in pricing or economic impact to us we have normalized branded and private label volumes for this change.
Taking this into account across all channels our branded white milk volumes are down almost 4% year-over-year.
Taking another view to our branded white milk volumes within the grocery channel our branded volume performance was as largely stabilized up slightly year-over-year.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q2 we averaged 34.3% this compares to a 34.8% brand mix in Q1 2015 and is flat versus Q2 2014.
Given the continuation of above normal price gaps at retail we are very pleased with our branded mix and performance.
As I mentioned earlier our flavored milk volume performance was down less than 1% versus last year.
However with improving flavored milk category performance within retail in Q2 fluid milk volume and MULO+C Store grew 4.8% versus prior year ago period.
Obviously the biggest news for the quarter from a brand perspective was the launch of our national fresh white milk brand DairyPure which was supported by incremental advertising and promotional spend.
Although it's too early to project a long-term impact at DairyPure we are pleased with this performance today.
As we've discussed over the long-term we expect DairyPure to provide a number of clear benefits for the consumers to category retail customers and certainly for our company.
For consumers DairyPure is on trend with a desire for clean label local stores fresh protein and nutrient packed products.
We were seeing strong consumer response as our DairyPure message has already reached more than 1 million facebook users and our average post engagement rates since launch is nearly six times the industry average.
For the category our national brand builds a void in the dairy industry.
Our initial DairyPure advertising platform is educating consumers on the health and nutritional benefits of conventional white milk.
We are also promoting DairyPure as a cost-effective source of protein.
Our retail customers have already embraced DairyPure because it simplifies their world with a single UPC code that will enhance their efficiency.
DairyPure has also enabled national promotions and FSIs which were previously not feasible under our regional UPCs.
We are seeing DairyPure coupon redemption rates that are trending above CPG industry norms.
And for the company DairyPure has allowed us to take advantage of the efficiencies of national media with one clear voice.
Given the performance since launch we have committed additional advertising investment to promote DairyPure through the balance of 2015.
We believe that in addition to the benefits of DairyPure we may begin to see improved category performance based on several positive trends that indicate certain secular headwinds may be abating.
For the first time since the recession U.S.
birth rates rose in 2014 versus the prior year.
Additionally the rate of second and both grew 1% and 2% respectively in 2014.
Second cereal consumption declines have begun to moderate.
While there is still a clear shift to on the go breakfast offerings the deceleration marks a positive trend since breakfast milk consumption represents about 30% of daily consumption occasions.
Next organic milk volume growth at retail has decelerated the past five quarters.
While the category is still experiencing positive growth supply issues and retail prices appear to be capping at share of the category.
With DairyPure we are telling consumers that they don’t have to drink organic milk to have milk that is tested for antibiotics and that is free of growth hormones.
From a plant based beverage standpoint much of almond milks’ growth appears to have fueled mainly at soy’s expense.
And like organic milk the almond milk category has had similar deceleration in growth rates since early 2014.
It also appears to us that almond milk maybe on its way to ending this growth cycle much sooner than soy.
Finally consumers are asking for healthy high protein products.
We believe that through our efforts to improve consumer education supported by MilkPEP we may be able to make more consumers of plant based products aware that conventional milk is a much more cost effective and caloric source of protein.
We’re not sure that everyone knows that conventional white milk has 8 grams of protein in an 8 ounce serving and it takes a 64 ounce serving of almond milk to get the same 8 grams of protein.
There is a general misconception that the fresh white milk category in the U.S.
has been declining annually for decades.
While that’s applicable through our per capita consumption with population growth fresh white milks volumes actually increased every year from 2005 to 2009 at rates ranging from 0.2% to 1.1%.
Generally speaking post grade recession headwinds to the category have included the declining birth rates declining cereal consumptions the emergence of alternative dairy beverages both organic and plant based.
While improvements to the secular trends that I just discussed do not reflect all the variables affecting the conventional fluid milk category we believe they maybe arbiters of future growth opportunities for us and our category.
Now let me switch gears and discuss the actions we’re taking to improve our long-term operating performance.
From a commercial perspective we continue to focus on striking a right balance between volume performance and price realization.
In order to accomplish this we continue to develop more disciplined processes utilizing better analytical tools to provide us with deeper insights that lead to better pricing decisions.
As a result the commercial organization is focused on category revenue and trade spend management and driving the growth of our national brands.
With the recent launch of DairyPure and continued success and expansion of our TruMoo brand we are investing behind these national brands.
DairyPure gives us a national brand supported by our highly regarded regional brands to unlock growth potential within the category.
Commercially we intend to continue pursuing growth opportunities through product innovation and by targeting key customers categories and channels.
Across our supply chain we continue to execute our cost productivity agenda and utilize our scale to procure ingredients and packaging at industry leading levels.
Optimize our production network and reduce our logistics cost.
From a plant perspective in response to volume and category declines we have consolidated the number of plants in our network which provides a long-term opportunity to reduce landing cost after the transition.
Most recently we announced our second plant closure in 2015 as we plan to seize operations at our Rochester Indiana facility in October.
We plan to continue to evaluate our network in light of category and volume performance.
On the procurement side we continue to invest considerable resources towards ongoing efficiency in our raw milk utilization.
Working with our suppliers we have a reliable and predictable supply chain that achieves lower overall system costs that we believe cannot be achieved by smaller suppliers.
Earlier this year Dean moved a significant portion of our dairy grade HDPE resin buy from a brokerage arrangement to an in house procurement model.
As a significant HDPE resin buyer we have been able to eliminate brokerage costs and achieve lower cost for the raw material.
As it relates to our logistics network we are focused on increasing the use of routing tools and software to enable route optimization and driver productivity.
But we can also improve efficiency through indirect methods.
One example is delivery frequency.
By focusing on the number of deliveries we make through customer’s location as well as the size of the delivery we believe we can considerably improve the utilization of our assets by making sure our trucks are full.
Year-to-date we have taken over 5 500 stops in a 192 distribution assets out of our distribution system.
Each of these represents over 3% reduction.
When looking at our supply chain that’s our operations and logistics together the rate of our year-over-year landed cost per gallon growth took a step down in Q2 to 1.6%.
This improvement is largely reflective of our cost productivity agenda.
As well as lower fuel costs offset by the impact of our conscious decision to incrementally invest in modest amount back into our supply chain this quarter.
As we said before the timeframe to get the flat year-over-year landed cost per gallon will be slower than expected as volume deleverage creates the headwind for our productivity plan.
We reported adjusted operating income of 67 million for the quarter a 73 million year-over-year increase versus last year's loss of 6 million.
For the quarter operating income per gallon improved to $0.10 a gallon which represents a $0.02 per gallon sequential increase.
The improvement in our net price realization is reflective of pricing actions we've taken.
First for Q2 gross profit per gallon improved $3.09 sequentially and second versus Q2 of 2014 our gross profit per gallon was up 28% as we benefited from declining class I and class II cost and pricing strategies to offset the impact of a 3% volume decline.
Now I'll turn the call over to Chris for a more detail review of the financial results.
Chris.
Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I'll walk through the Q2 operating results as well as review the balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter while total volume declined 3.1% in Q2 our gross profit increased due to favorable cost decline and the pricing mechanisms for our Class II products price adjustments for our private label products pricing action and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio and declining shrink costs correlated to the dramatic commodity declines.
The positive impact of these was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed costs deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $496 million in Q2.
This represents a $96 million improvement versus the year ago quarter and represents the highest quarterly gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased $22 million from the year ago period.
Selling and logistic expenses increased $5 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions as well as trucks traffic.
The increase is also affected by the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back in the areas surrounding closed facility as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were only up $4 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $73 million to $67 million.
Below the operating line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded a Q2 adjusted net income of $32 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.33.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $107 million a $73 million increase from $34 million in the prior year period.
Overall all operating results are reflective of solid execution across all functions.
Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Year-to-date net cash flow from continuing operations was $272 million; capital expenditure totaled $48 million resulting in free cash flow from continuing operations of $224 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund our year-to-date free cash flow from operations was a $168 million this is a 196 million higher than the prior year period due to our strong operating results commodity decline and reduced working capital investment.
Our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $36 million year-over-year on the back of 29% year-over-year decline in Class I raw milk price.
We would expect our free cash flow to sequentially and seasonally fall in Q3 due primarily to our higher working capital investment and lower operating results being further impacted by our increased quarterly capital expenditure bill.
As of the end of the second quarter total net debt outstanding was $734 million down 90 million from the end of Q1.
This represented the third sequential quarterly reduction in net debt due to improving operating results and strong free cash flow performance.
On an all cash netted basis our Q2 leverage sequentially improved by over a full turn to 2.3 times net debt to EBITDA it is over two full turns lower than the end of 2014.
This highlights our proven ability to rapidly de-lever on the strength of our cash generating business.
For covenant purposes our cash on hand exceeded our senior secured indebtedness thereby resulting in a senior secured net leverage ratio of 0 times.
Our first half 2015 operating performance and our recent actions to improve our balance sheet provide Dean Foods with opportunities to drive total shareholder returns.
We will continue to have an opportunistic mindset with regards to options and uses of our excess cash.
We may invest our cash; either by reinvesting in our base business to grow the top line; gain efficiencies and strengthen our cost advantages or by executing M&amp;A to expand our complement our product offerings or we may chose to distribute our cash to shareholders either through opportunistic share repurchases or via the cash dividend strategy that we initiated in Q1 of 2014.
With that I will now turn the call back to Gregg for some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg.
Thanks Chris.
Looking forward with expected volume declines in the low single-digits slightly increasing raw milk costs and taking normal seasonality and other factors into account we expect Q3 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.17 and $0.27 per share.
We are the largest player in the milk industry with sustainable competitive advantages through our scale and capabilities and we remain focused on our initiatives to drive shareholder value.
With DairyPure our national fresh white milk brand and TruMoo our national flavored milk brand we have significant opportunity to expand our industry leadership role.
Our financial results reflect improving performance trends and we have refinanced our debt and expanded our accessible liquidity which gives us significantly more financial flexibility as we move forward.
Lastly I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued commitment and also recognize the many employees involved in the successful launch of DairyPure.
The incremental opportunities associated with DairyPure present a unique opportunity for our Company to expand our leadership position within the category and provide a major catalyst for growth.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Frieda Joe on for Judy.
So my question was related to the drivers between the low single-digit volume decline guidance for the third quarter.
With the industry declines being a little bit more moderate in the 2.5% decline year-over-year.
Do you see that kind of playing out through the back half? And then is it really the better industry volume dynamics that you see as the larger driver to that volume decline guidance? Or is it really a better share performance in the back half? I would first start with the category.
I think we do see trends that would tell you that the category is continuing to improve.
And I think as far as our volume in the low single-digits decline is really going to continue to be very dependent upon finding that right balance between our pricing and our volume expectations.
We’re very pleased with the price gaps as we see them today you look at $0.77 difference between private label and our branded products that’s about $0.15 to $0.20 above historical norms and we believe that that’s serving us extremely well from a financial performance perspective.
And then just turning towards some of the SG&amp;A expenses for the back half of the year.
Are you expecting the pace that $5 million increase to be the run rate as we go to the back half? The extra investments that we’re going to make in DairyPure advertising is embedded in our Q3 guidance.
So we think that due to that modest increase you can continue to see SG&amp;A performance that’s consistent with that kind of expectations.
And so that $5 million -- so DairyPure is the largest driver? DairyPure and the increase in year-over-year incentive comp are above planned performance.
And then don’t forget we also are continuing to support our TruMoo brand in the back half of the year as well.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I think you've talked in the past about having some appetite for acquisitions just wanted to hear your latest thoughts from that side of thing and then particular criteria you would use if you're looking for potential purchases and on the financial side on the type of product or acquisition that you might be thinking about? Alexia I think as Chris said in his prepared remarks.
There is the four different alternatives that we have when it comes to investing back into the business or putting that back out as a dividend or a share repo but from a M&amp;A perspective it's all about do we enhance the portfolio that we have and can we take advantage of the scale and the capabilities that we already bring to that and so finding brands or something that would fit within that portfolio that we've put on our trucks that we could run in our manufacturing or provide us capabilities beyond what we may have today would be where we were targeting our efforts.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Brett Hundley BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Gregg I want to ask you -- you are exactly right around about the price gaps leading to great margin performance for you guys.
And you mentioned just may be some competitive behaviors creeping in we've heard the same thing and obviously you guys are going manage price and volume in a vacuum but can you just speak a little bit to some behavior that you are seeing and maybe how long you think some of these price gaps can hold in place? I think it's one where if you look at the historical norms -- usually as prices of raw milk start to go down you will see the RFP activity or the request for proposals from our customers start to go up.
And I think we're seeing that normal trend as prices have stabilized here I think we're starting to see people come back into the market with RFPs.
As I said earlier I think we will -- I know we will continue to manage our prices to make sure we're serving the customers with the level of service and quality that they would expect but at a price that’s competitive for us.
So I don’t -- I think we are going to see the RFP activity pick up in the second half of the year but I don’t think it doesn’t change our strategy as to what we are to be doing.
As you think about the gap the $0.77 gap whether how long can we maintain that I think that’s one that we'll continue to monitor and balance as we go through the rest of the year and into next year just to see what -- I mean obviously we'd like to keep it up at those levels as long as we possibly can.
I do believe that our advertising around DairyPure and what we're doing with DairyPure is allowing us to maintain that gap.
And then just one quick one from me Gregg there is been a merger to entities at the retail grocery level and one has historically been more vertical in dairy and the other hasn't.
I'm just curious whether there is any early read on whether this is a potential threat or a potential opportunity for the milk industry? I don’t know what it means at this point I think they're still trying to get their arms around what this thing together between Albertsons what that actually means to them so I don’t whether it's an opportunity or if it's a threat at this point but I thinks it's one where -- as we continue to look at our capabilities of what we can do I think there is plenty of opportunity for us to continue to be profitable and then do what we need to do without any of that in the mix.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I'd like to come back to the performance of your branded business volumes despite the expansion of the price gap.
What's driving that in your view -- I mean what's different from this cycle than the previous cycles? No John I think it's still is that we really had not educated the consumer in the past around the branded the benefits of branded white milk.
And I think the same holds true with TruMoo.
If you go back to 2011 we weren't talking to the consumer until that point of time.
So I think that -- I want to believe that the biggest reason is that we're educating the consumer and the consumer is starting to understand the benefits of that and I think its allowed us to start to expand that gap.
And we've talked in the past about the number one or number two position that our regional brands hold and 80% of the market that they play in.
So I think one of the things you are seeing in the strength performance the brand performance today is just the fruition the culmination of that very strong position that those brands holding and offer.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with J.
P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
So two questions if I can we’re seeing quite a recovery in full or fat white milks right and I think whole milk I think most people would agree with this taste and feels a lot better than skim.
So to me this might present a great opportunity for the milk industry to market behind flavor and texture in a way that really hasn’t done in decades.
I mean since I was a kid milk is marketed as a health beverage.
So first do you agree with that as an opportunity; and second do you think the industry is doing enough along these lines I still hear more about protein and health on white milk then taste? Ken I think we need to put you on the road.
But I would absolutely agree with that and we are seeing the trends more towards whole milk and less around fat free or low fat.
But I think it’s one where we have to pick and chose our messages.
And I think when you only have 15 or 30 seconds to try to communicate that you try to decide which of those three you’re going to hit whether it’s taste or whether right now we kind of decided that we want to focus on the no antibiotics and no artificial growth hormones just trying to let people know that they don’t have to go to organic or something else to try to avoid those.
The other is really trying to lien in on the protein push and I think that just seems to be aligned with where most consumers are today and trying to find cost effective protein sources and that’s ours.
So I think we talk about it being cold we about it being fresh we talk about it being local and I think you’re spot on we’ve got to get back to the taste message.
I do believe that MilkPEP and the campaign that they’re on right now is helping that considerably.
I would also tell you that as much as we would love to see people go back towards whole milk and drink more milk it is in general.
The implications of that have been playing out in the marketplace today where you have higher cream cost right now because with more whole milk in the marketplace versus skim it creates less cream and so multiples on cream I mean we’re paying the highest multiples we’ve seen on cream in quite some time.
And this next question may unfortunately make you rethink your desire to get me on the road.
But I appreciate and you’re hesitant to talk about Mr.
Davis’ resignation I do understand absolutely.
But he was just reelected less than three months ago.
So is there any color you can provide from the reasons for his departure just to help the shareholders who have voted for him understand what took place even in general terms? I mean I think it’s important because I think one of the reasons the stock is down today is that the uncertainty around what happened.
People are assuming the worse.
And I just hope if any color you can provide would be useful there? Well I appreciate the questions but I really have nothing further that I can add other than the fact that we feel more optimistic than ever about the future of Dean Foods.
But no I can’t provide any additional color to that.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I had just two questions for you if I could and the first was to just to clarify your commentary on the landed cost per gallon.
It sounds like is that still up year-over-year was it down sequentially.
I want to understand the comment you made I think Gregg to that point.
If you look back Chris to the Q1 Q4 to Q1 to Q2 we were up as high as 2.6% above year-over-year ago levels and then this last quarter we were down to 1.6%.
So it’s trending in the right direction but it’s still not back to flat from a year-over-year perspective.
And so the expectation….
Yes the expectation is that we’ll get back to flat in time.
But again as we told you on the last quarter with the volume deleverage that we’re seeing it’s taken longer than we had anticipated that it would take to get back to flat.
And then just one more question for you when a customer shifts from branded to private label it would seem like that would be accompanied by some margin degradation for you the manufacturer.
It sounds like in this case you’ve had a pretty big customer club side move but very little change in economic.
Is that just something that’s still to come you think or you’re comfortable you can hold margins where they are because this is a pretty good size of pretty good chunk of volume that is moving that way.
No we don’t.
There was no change in economic there was no change in our wholesale price to that customer when they changed from brand to private label and there won't be any in the future.
We don’t expect a normal course or there to be any change in our price to them prospectively.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
I got cut off for some reasons so this may have been asked already but I guess first one is I don’t know whether it's Ken's question about the Chairman's resignation or if we put that aside I kind of took your comments despite pretty much a record quarter for the last few years is pretty negative I mean the stock's down 14% so I guess; Gregg I wanted to see if the outlook from a competitive standpoint is that bad that that’s kind of really the impression you meant to leave because it seems like that’s what's the markets or the way the markets interpreting it? I'm not sure how the market interprets it Eric but I can guarantee you we don’t feel that way.
What I can grantee you is that we feel like we've got the best momentum we've had in a long time.
We also feel very confident in our ability to continue to see your performance improve.
So the only comment I made around the competitive activity was that we are seeing some RFP activity more so than what we've seen in the past but it's not outside the historical norms as we see milk prices come down.
So after that people looking at sort of where we ended in Q2 at $0.33 versus our guidance for the third quarter and overreacting to what we would describe is largely normal seasonality you know from covering Dean Foods for long time but going from Q2 to Q3 is not unusual to see a step down in EBIT not unusual to step down in EPS just due to the fiscal volume not being completely covered the decreases in volume just not being completely covered by increases in ice-cream.
Though some people may have anticipated the EPS would hold in Q3 or even go up again but that would clearly be very outside the normal seasonality for the business.
And then on the free cash flow I mean it was very strong.
I don’t think you gave an update on CapEx and I'm not asking you to give a forecast for the year but is there any kind of senses to how you feel free cash flow comes in for the full year given whatever second half spending or working capital changes you see? Yes.
I don’t want to get into -- on the [narrative] kind of guide for the full year.
We did say that for the third quarter we expected kind of based on normal seasonality and the fact that in the first half of the year with both tax refund being embedded in the first half of the year and the reset of working capital due to the decline in commodity costs are also being in the first half of the year.
We expect that the second half of the year free cash flow performance to look more modest.
So though CapEx will go up we don’t have those two tailwinds in the back half of the year so we are extremely pleased with first half performance obviously but back half performance will be more modest on free cash flow.
And then last question I guess to the DairyPure initiative.
Gregg when do you feel like you can correctly judge what's -- when or what will be a success? I mean it's such a high your product line is so high turning it seems to me that unlike let's say slower returning self stable food products; you should be able to probably get a pretty quick judgment on whether it's working? I mean DairyPure's Eric as we come out as we go into the third quarter I would assume on the next call we'll have more information as far as how well it's performing.
But I think again it's more of a long-term play for us as we take the DairyPure brand and move it into adjacencies.
So -- but I - you're right with the quick turn of the product but you also have to keep in mind that you still got an educated consumer so even though you may have a fast turning product doesn’t mean that consumers necessarily got the message yet but I think next quarter we got be in a much better position to provide some data.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Farha Aslam with Stephen.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead I was just wondering if ice-cream had a particularly positive impact on this quarter given one of your competitors were added in market during the quarter? Yeah.
I mean -- yes it did.
I mean our volume on ice-cream was up a bit had positive from a volume perspective but also drove some cost mix on our cost side.
So obviously producing ice-cream is more expensive than producing fluid milk so it did have a bit of drag on our cost structure just in total from a landing cost perspective but yes we did see some volume pick up on ice-cream business.
And is that going to be a positive in the third quarter and when we comp it in next year is that going to be a factor we should consider? I would think that we should expect to see it for some period of time.
I don’t know how long.
But we feel good about where we’re at and feel good about the ice-cream business in total right now.
And then over the last year you’ve pulled back from giving longer term commentary or guidance as the fluid milk environment was so volatile.
Now that your outlook on fluid milk is clear and there is likely less volatility would you be willing to share with us some longer term metrics in terms of your targets either in margin profit per gallon EPS growth as we consider Dean as a longer term contracted investment? As far as in those head contracts probably not but what I would tell you is that as much as we believe the commodity market is pretty stable for the third quarter I would tell you that I think it’s still extremely volatile for any further out than that because there is a considerable gap between the international prices today and the U.S.
prices.
There is a historical gap between Class III and Class IV milk prices right now.
All of those at some point will have to converge.
And I just think that you’re going to see the volatility in this market play out I don’t know if it’s fourth quarter first quarter or second quarter but those have to come together.
Just as an example U.S.
butter prices today are at about $1.99 a pound and international butter prices are at about $4 pound basis the GDP.
So any time you get those price gaps you’re going to see exports start to go down or are going down considerably and imports are starting to come up.
All of those are going to have impacts and cause volatility in the U.S.
commodity market.
So from that perspective I don’t see the volatility necessarily changing other than one quarter in front of us which we have visibility to.
And as far as long term I think we've said we’re going to be mid single-digit EBITDA growth and we’re going to be in a position to deliver on that.
So that’s about as much of a long-term perspective as I'd give you.
And I’ll let Chris in there if he has a different perspective.
No I think that’s exactly right Gregg.
I mean to me as far as there is short-term guidance which we’re clearly giving right now there is long-term guidance which Gregg just suggested and between those there is annual guidance.
And so we’ve chosen as you noted the world got very volatile for us last year and as Gregg echoed and described as the world remains volatile that piece in the middle around annual guidance that we remain reluctant to engaging.
But the long-term guidance that Gregg just described has really been very consistent for the last 2.5 years.
And our last question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow up to Farha’s question on the ice-cream contribution and also just to add to it Class II butter fat if you talked about.
Could you quantify in any way what is the margin impact of it on a gallon basis? I am going to have to look to Chris to try to give you better insight to that.
I think I can just from a cream multiple perspective you’re looking at cream multiples today in the 150 range versus historical ranges around 130 probably for this time a year specially as you come out of that.
And as far as our ice-cream volume I think our ice cream volume in the second quarter was up 2% 3% versus last year.
Yes so I mean I don’t want to go too much further on getting overly specific on the amount.
But as Gregg just said volume was favorable pricing was favorable although some of the volume was also private label it wasn’t all a branded increase.
And so there is a mix dynamic within ice-cream between private label and branded that would make that pricing impact a little bit more muted.
But we were very pleased with its performance.
And again within the grand scheme of total Dean Foods volume white milk is the driver ice-cream plays apart but just due to the relative scale of the two businesses.
In total it was positive but it was I would characterize as a modest driver of the upside in Q3.
Q2 or Q3? Q2.
And then just a follow up on Eric’s question earlier about the commentary or the tone I mean I am also surprised that it comes across as a little bit more negative from a volume perspective from volatility perspective in Class 1 competitive environment little bit heating up as well and then margin over milk continues to shrink.
Is that -- did you mean to convey -- I mean those if you put them all together that's probably why the stock's reacting this way or are we looking it the wrong way? As I said earlier I have no idea why it would come across this negative because that was never -- that was not the intent.
I think we always have a cautionary term to any time we see looking forward around the volumes on the category and what's going on but we absolutely -- I said it right up front I feel as good about this business today as I the last three years and I think we see our performance in the second quarter is just the third sequential or fourth sequential quarter in a row of continuing performance.
So how others outside decide to take it or perceive it I really can't control that but we're cautious about only capturing some of the conservative things that we talked about what I would also capture the more optimistic items that's sit on the other side of the ledger.
So we can talk about volume being down 3% in the second quarter that is clearly a little bit worse than the back half of 2014 when we were down 2% but if you don't at the same time talk about the improvements in gross profit per gallon the pricing benefit that we've gotten as a result of being slightly lower volume I think it's an incredible story and we think on balance when you add those two stories together it's actually not negative at all.
It's actually a very very positive story.
Thank you.
And this does close our Q&amp;A session for today's conference.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Gregg Tanner for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Michele.
And thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.