Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that today's call is being recorded and is being broadcast live over the Internet on Dean Foods' corporate website.
This broadcast is property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution or retransmission or rebroadcast of this company in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Scott Vopni.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tanya.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
This press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC website at sec.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today's prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods' website.
A replay of today's call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today's call the earnings per share operating income interest expense EBITDA and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today's call are intended to fall within Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among other things disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today's conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company's periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q as well in today's earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today's call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our third quarter performance and an update on our national brands.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Scott.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
This morning we reported third quarter earnings that included adjusted operating income of $62 million which equates to over $0.09 a gallon.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in gross profit and operating income.
Our adjusted diluted earnings of $0.30 per share also exceeded the top end of our previous guidance.
From a year-to-date perspective we have delivered almost $300 million of EBITDA and generated over $240 million of free cash flow.
Also in Q3 we utilized $53 million of cash to repurchase 3.2 million shares of Dean Foods' common stocks.
I'm very pleased with the operational and financial performance of the business this quarter especially given its seasonality and the headwinds we face in terms of increasing raw milk costs and elevated Class II costs.
I believe the financial results in 2015 demonstrate that we are driving the right initiatives and agenda.
And to be clear I continue to be both excited and optimistic about our prospects and our opportunities going forward.
We have described DairyPure our fresh white milk national brand that we launched in Q2 as a platform that will provide numerous opportunities for us to create long-term incremental benefits for our consumers our category our customers and our company.
In Q3 after only six months in the marketplace we began to see initial positive signs resulting from DairyPure.
I'll provide more detail regarding DairyPure later on in the call.
We view our portfolio of brands especially with our national brands of DairyPure in fresh white milk and TruMoo in flavored milk as a competitive advantage that complements our customer set and leverages the national scale of our network and one of the nation's largest best-in-class refrigerated direct store delivery distribution systems.
We believe the strong health and wellness credentials in dairy products and especially in fresh milk resonate with consumers.
Altogether we believe this is a great business to be in and one that creates a compelling operating and financial opportunity.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to update you on the dairy commodity landscape and its impact on retail pricing.
In Q3 as expected but for the first time this year raw milk costs increased sequentially.
The quarterly average cost for the third quarter was $16.38 per hundred-weight which represents a 4% sequential increase but a decline of $7.13 or 30% on a year-over-year basis.
Putting the third quarter's phasing into context on a per-gallon basis the cost of raw milk increased about $0.035 in July before declining just over $0.02 in August and rising back up $0.005 in September.
Overall we experienced relatively modest cost movements within the quarter.
In regards to the dairy commodity environment in the fourth quarter we expect that raw milk costs will be down sequentially given the butter market and other seasonal factors.
October's per hundred-weight raw milk costs of $15.84 marked a sequential decrease of $0.03 per gallon.
While November's announced price of $16.48 per hundred-weight represents about a $0.06 per gallon increase sequentially we expect our per gallon prices to decrease about $0.01 in December.
All in we expect raw milk costs for the fourth quarter to average $16.22 per hundred-weight which represents a decrease of about 1% sequentially.
We believe Q4 will be another quarter with modest cost movement sequentially but as we've experienced all year raw milk costs will continue to reflect a significant decline on a year-over-year basis.
We expect global dairy fundamentals to continue to be overall supportive to our business as production continues to outpace relatively modest demand.
Year-over-year total milk production from the top seven exporters continues to increase albeit at a slower pace compared to the robust expansion experienced in 2014.
The EU is a leading contributor as their milk production has increased year-over-year by more than 2.5% largely due to the elimination of the milk quotas at the end of March.
This is particularly meaningful when one considers that the overall size of the European dairy production is approximately seven times larger than that of New Zealand and over one-and-a-half times larger than that of the U.S.
Moreover we see China's milk supply expanding faster than their weaker consumption and a continuation of the Russian import ban.
In the U.S.
we continue to see ongoing domestic supply momentum due to a slightly larger herd and productivity growth more than offsetting the impact of the continued drought in California.
These supply and demand factors should contribute to a relatively benign dairy environment over the short term.
Lastly we expect Class II costs to decline meaningfully as we exit the Q4 holiday season.
Turning to pricing through the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class I Mover and the retail price of private label gallons of fresh milk in the grocery channel remain relatively flat given the modest changes in the cost of raw milk.
The Class I Mover average increased sequentially above $0.05 per gallon and the margin over milk decreased from $1.60 per gallon in Q2 to $1.54 per gallon in Q3.
September's margin over milk exit rate was $1.53 just $0.01 down from June's margin over milk.
This suggests that retailers chose not to pass through the higher cost of raw milk embedded in their wholesale costs.
Generally speaking the margin over milk has returned to more normative historic levels and we view its stability as an indicator of rational pricing by retailers.
In the third quarter total Dean Foods volumes across all products of 658 million gallons were in line with our expectation and represents a 2.3% year-over-year decline which is approximately 100 basis points better than our run rate during the first half of the year.
Fluid milk volumes continue to represent about 75% of our total volumes.
For Q3 our fluid white milk volume performance continued to be impacted by channel dynamics and our rate realization strategy on branded fluid milk products.
Across our other non-fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were largely offset by a more than 10% increase in our ice cream volume performance.
For the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis we expect total volumes to decline low-single digits.
Specific to fluid milk in the third quarter our volumes on an unadjusted basis declined 2.8% as compared to the year-ago period.
For the quarter from a channel perspective volumes were up in food service but down across all other channels.
On a sequential basis fluid milk volumes in small format have improved about 50 basis points in each of the last two quarters.
The USDA recently reported industry fluid milk volumes through August and restated certain published data for prior periods.
Industry fluid milk volume declines improved from a 2.2% decline in the first quarter of 2015 to a 1.3% decline in the second quarter of 2015.
As compared to the first quarter our share of U.S.
fluid milk sales volume declined 10 basis points to 35.2% during the second quarter.
For quarter-to-date ended August industry fluid milk volumes declined approximately 0.9% year-over-year on a non-adjusted basis.
On this same basis Dean Foods' share of 35.3% has increased 10 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2015.
I'm very encouraged by the stable sequential share performance we are delivering in 2015 given the decisions we've made to materially improve net price realization.
It's worth noting that the quarter-to-date fluid milk volume decline of 0.9% is meaningfully better than the 3.6% decline experienced in the year ago period.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter both sequentially and year-over-year improved category performance.
The health of the dairy category is probably as good as it's been in my career at Dean Foods and while lower priced milk in terms of both cost and prices at retail is helping support that I also believe that the abatement of certain secular headwinds which we discussed in depth last quarter is contributing.
In this regard both almond milk and organic milk growth rates decelerated again this quarter.
With our shares stabilizing we remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect the level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
From a commercial perspective with the category continuing to show meaningful signs of improvement we are maintaining our focus on striking the right balance between volume performance and price realization.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing share and operational performance as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
Within the grocery channel our brands average $3.66 at retail down $0.42 versus Q3 2014 and down $0.09 versus Q2 2015.
As a result the price gap between our brands and private label has expanded 9% year-over-year from $0.66 to $0.72.
Also as compared to Q2 of 2015 there's only a $0.06 decline in the price gap.
The sequential declines in terms of both price and price gap are partially reflective of promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch.
In MULO+C Store while our branded white milk volumes are down almost 4% year-over-year our dollar share is the highest in three years.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q3 we averaged 34.3%.
This is 10 basis points better than both Q2 2015 and Q3 2014.
As a reminder our branded white milk mix includes DairyPure and all of our other brands both of which have varying economics across different channels and geographies.
Given the continuation of higher price gaps at retail we are extremely pleased with our branded mix and sequential growth from Q2 to Q3.
As we have previously discussed these data points have been adjusted for the Q4 2014 switch from Dean branded products to private label products by one of our large customers within the club channel.
Our flavored mild volume performance was up almost 1% versus last year.
With improving flavored milk category performance within retail in Q3 TruMoo volume in MULO+C Store grew 4% and our private label flavored milk volume grew by 14% versus prior year ago period.
As a category flavored milk continues to show strong volume growth this year and is on pace to achieve its best performance since 2011.
In addition to our strong financial results for the quarter our national white milk brand DairyPure has shown initial positive results behind the support of incremental advertising and promotional spend.
I'd like to take a few minutes to provide you with some insights regarding DairyPure.
As we have discussed over the long term we expect DairyPure to provide a number of clear benefits for the consumers the category retail customers and certainly for the company.
For consumers DairyPure is on trend with the desire for clean label wealth resource fresh protein and nutrient-packed products.
So far we have seen strong brand awareness scores and repeat trial scores with over 80% of those who have tried DairyPure trying the product again.
Additionally our consumers are playing back our key advertising messages that focus on our five point purity promise.
You will recall our five point purity promise states that our farmers pledged not to use artificial growth hormones.
We test all milk for antibiotics.
This continually quality tested to ensure purity it's only from cows fed a healthy diet and its cold shipped from your local dairy.
We are very pleased with what we're seeing in terms of DairyPure's volume performance in the first few months following its national launch.
DairyPure has been purchased by over 20% of U.S.
homes.
And we believe this can grow as we continue our investment behind the brand and target additional ACV gains.
DairyPure is already in six times more households than any other national white milk competitor brand.
Since launch our dollar and unit velocity has improved in each consecutive month.
And given recent gains with vertical customers and several large key grocery customers the momentum behind DairyPure although early is very promising.
For our retail partners DairyPure has enabled us to rationalize over 1 000 UPCs down to fewer than 300 nationally.
While we've retained our regional brands on the labels because of the equity associated with them DairyPure has allowed us to be able to reach more consumers through advertising and coupons and has enabled an upcoming cross-brand promotion within one of our largest customers.
From a company perspective DairyPure has given us our first multibillion-dollar brand within our product portfolio.
DairyPure has annual retail sales projections of about $2.5 billion or about $4 billion when adding food service and other distribution outlets.
But maybe most importantly DairyPure has provided our sales organization with a strong selling story and value proposition to present through our customers while concurrently allowing us to affect the successful go-to-market strategy for our national brands this year.
When we launched DairyPure in April we made it clear that we were going to make incremental investment behind the brand to support its growth and our objectives.
Remember on an annual basis I'd call the amount of incremental investment modest.
To-date we have invested the majority of our DairyPure spend in advertising consumer promotions and research.
While this investment is small relative to other CPG peers our national buying capability that stems from having a national fresh white milk brand will allow us to reach nearly 80% of our target audience in 2015 as many as 25 times since the May launch.
Despite a shift to digital media driving consumer awareness our investment in television advertising has been the primary source of ad awareness for our consumers as over 71% of our consumers recall learning about DairyPure from TV.
DairyPure is allowing us to cost effectively talk to and educate consumers on the benefits and attributes of fresh milk.
And as DairyPure brings consumers back to the category we believe over time we can improve our branded mix.
We believe that the progress at DairyPure and continued success of TruMoo will provide us with a platform and enable a roadmap for our commercial and brand initiatives moving forward.
The initial launch of DairyPure and the extension into creams and creamers and half-and-half is behind us.
And schools are converting to DairyPure packaging as we speak.
We are excited about the balance of the year activity and extension of innovation plans as we look forward into 2016.
To drive increased distribution flexibility and sales velocity we have developed year-round UPCs for limited-time-offering flavors that will allow us to cycle seasonal TruMoo varieties through the dairy case and improve availability.
We have also secured our first cross-brand promotion which is scheduled to start in late December.
Looking into 2016 we look to continue our brand and commercial momentum through extensions into the lactose-free category and nutrient-enriched products.
While these represent just a few key upcoming initiatives we look forward to generating sustainable growth from our brands through consumer insights innovation line extensions and expansion into adjacencies that leverage our existing network and capabilities.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg.
And good morning everyone.
I'll walk through a summary of the Q3 adjusted operating results as well as provide a review of our balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year-ago quarter while total volumes declined 2.3% our Q3 gross profit increased due to price adjustments for our private label products pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio volume-driven performance from our portfolio of ice cream products and declining shrink costs correlated to the dramatic commodity declines.
The positive impact of these factors was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed-cost deleverage within our operating plans.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $492 million in Q3.
This represents a $74 million improvement versus a year ago quarter and represents our highest third quarter gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased about $22 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $7 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions as well as new graphics for a portion of our fleet DairyPure of course.
The increase is also partially due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs offset by lower fuel-related costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings and advertising.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive compensation were only up $2 million versus year-ago levels.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $52 million to $62 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $2 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yielded adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.30.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $101 million a $51 million increase from prior year.
Overall our operating results are reflective of solid execution across all of our functions.
For Q3 gross profit per gallon improved 21% versus Q3 2014.
For the quarter operating income was $62 million or $0.094 a gallon which represents almost an $0.08 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period and as Gregg mentioned is the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
The quarterly improvement in our financial results is predominantly due to the pricing actions we have taken and their effect on net price realization.
Turning now to our free cash flow performance.
Year-to-date cash flow from continuing operations was $322 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $81 million resulting in strong free cash flow from continuing operations of $241 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund received in Q1 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $185 million.
This is $226 million higher than the prior comparable year due to our strong operating results and reduced working capital investment.
Our invested capital across accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable was down $68 million year-over-year on the back of an approximately 30% year-over-year decline in the Class I raw milk price.
Our year-to-date free cash flow through Q3 2015 has been primarily utilized to refinance extend and pay down our debt to pay our dividend and to opportunistically repurchase our shares.
From a balance sheet perspective total net debt outstanding was $777 million as of the end of the third quarter.
This is $124 million lower than year-end 2014 as we've utilized our strong free cash flow to reduce debt and build cash within the context of ongoing dividend payments and our opportunistic Q3 share repurchase.
On an all-cash netted basis our total leverage has improved to 2.09 times net debt-to-EBITDA.
This represents the third sequential quarterly improvement and is nearly 2.5 full turns lower than the end of 2014.
Following the Q1 debt refinancing and strong financial performance through Q3 our balance sheet restoration work that began in 2012 is now complete.
Since initiating our dividend and replenishing our share repurchase authorization in late 2013 we have emphasized our strategy to continue to have an opportunistic mindset regarding various options related to the use of our excess cash.
We may choose to invest in our business or execute M&amp;A or distribute cash to shareholders via cash dividends and opportunistic share repurchases.
In this regard we have maintained our $0.07 per quarter dividend cadence since Q1 2014 and completed a $25 million share repurchase also in Q1 2014.
As previously noted during Q3 we executed $53 million in share repurchases.
Over eight days we've successfully repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares or 3.4% of total shares outstanding.
We repurchased our shares at an average price of $16.73 which is approximately 15% below our 52-week high.
Based on this year's quarterly earnings our Q3 share repurchases are immediately accretive to future quarters by approximately $0.01 per diluted earnings per share.
Since 2014 we have returned approximately 50% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Now I'll turn the call back to Gregg who will provide some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Looking forward to Q4 with the continuation of commercial and brand initiatives diligent cost focus seasonal demand driving beneficial product mix and an overall favorable commodity environment which is supportive we expect to close out this year with a strong fourth quarter results.
Including the accretive impact from the share repurchases in the third quarter we expect Q4 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.28 and $0.38 per share resulting in a full year 2015 adjusted diluted earnings per share of between $1.15 and $1.25.
On a full-year basis we expect adjusted EBITDA of approximately $400 million and capital expenditures of approximately $150 million.
Going forward I believe we have significant opportunities to build strong brands while focusing on our cost structure and growing our business across multiple channels in order to continue to improve our financial results.
In closing I'd also like to acknowledge and thank our employees who take great pride in their work and allow us to keep the commitments that we make to our customers and fulfill our vision to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? Certainly.
And our first question comes from Jonathan Feeney.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Jonathan.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about – pretty impressive reduction in the total number of UPCs on DairyPure.
Does that enable more – broader thinking about rationalization activity in the future? It certainly takes a lot of complexity out of your system.
Can you then – does it make it easier to if the industry stays stagnant declines a little bit close incremental facilities or move volume from one place to another? Was that part of the rationale there? And I had a follow-up on that too.
Okay.
Yeah Jonathan I would tell you that anything that we can do to eliminate complexity in our system is a positive.
And I think doing what we did with DairyPure facilitates that to some degree.
I think we've also in many cases though continued to look at opportunities to reduce our complexity further.
So yeah I think you're spot on as far as the opportunity that it provides us not only from a logistics perspective but from a manufacturing perspective.
Okay.
And just following up with that thought.
You had a big club customer as you mentioned last year go from branded to all private label.
When you have conversations with big customers who are maybe considering that kind of activity maybe that customer itself I mean what does the presentation look like when you say hey dairy especially now with DairyPure but all of our brands are bringing a lot of value to you; here is how they are bringing them? What are the two or three big points you hit with those customers? You haven't lost any incremental – you haven't seen similar activity this year so is that pitch kind of working or is the trend towards more and more private-label over time? Thanks.
Well I would tell you that obviously that happened in the fourth quarter of last year before we introduced DairyPure.
So I would tell you the pitch is working that customers should be carrying DairyPure because consumers are asking for it.
And think that – I think we're seeing some of that and I think we'll continue to see more as we continue to educate consumers about the benefits of DairyPure.
So we're not hearing a lot about it right now.
That doesn't mean that somebody might not be thinking about it.
But I would tell you that I think DairyPure does give us the platform and the communication vehicle to be able to convince customers that they ought to be carrying DairyPure and not a private label or a control brand of some kind.
The other thing I'd offer Jonathan is remember that that conversation with the retailers is probably most relevant in grocery where you have branded products and private label products.
In club and in small format you really tend to only have a brand.
And so that's why we think our proposition is most compelling because as we've talked in the past where our brands are the number-one or the number-two brand in 80% of the markets we serve we have retailers coming to us looking for our strong regional brand and that's even before you begin to apply the power of DairyPure.
So we actually see that as the trend probably moving more toward our brands being even more competitive in those other channels that are not grocery.
Okay.
I think I get it.
Thanks very much.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Moskow.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Clay Crumbliss on for Rob.
I know you're not giving guidance for 2016 but can you just talk about your ability to grow EBITDA from what you are guiding to this year at $400 million in 2016? And then secondly what sort of incremental marketing are you looking at for DairyPure next year? Well I think Clay I would tell you that obviously we're not going to talk about 2016 because we haven't provided any guidance.
I'd tell you that right now we're remaining focused on our commercial and cost productivity agenda as we finish out this fiscal year.
I think that we have the wherewithal though as we look forward to continue to improve upon our financial results.
So without giving any guidance I'd say that yeah we'll continue to improve our financial results going forward.
And I think our investment behind DairyPure will continue as it will with TruMoo and others.
We haven't really finalized 2016 plans yet so I can't tell you as to whether it's more or less than what it was in 2015.
So with that I'll see if Chris wants to add anything to that.
That's exactly right Gregg.
The only thing I would add is Clay you might – stay focused on the longer-term algorithm that we have talked about.
So we've talked for quite a while now about our ability over time to be able to grow EBIT in the mid single-digit range.
And without talking about 2016 plans which as Gregg said are still kind of being crafted nothing that we see shakes our confidence in that long-term algorithm that we talked about.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ken Goldman.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Ken.
Chris you talked about the reasons behind the gross margin strength or some of them anyway and I think you highlighted private-label price adjustments.
There was some other pricing which I missed frankly in branded milk and then ice cream volumes.
Can you talk about even just roughly which of these are the most important in terms of pushing the margin higher? I'm sure it's the milk side but sort of any color you can give on that and just why the private-label pricing adjustments were made.
That would be helpful.
Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
Given the predominance of the milk business it's the bigger driver.
Although even with ice cream being a smaller portion both volume growth and better net price realization within ice cream was a meaningful contributor in the quarter.
So back within milk on the branded side clearly the more aggressive stance that we took on pricing early in the year as milk commodity prices began to come down has continued to contribute throughout the year.
And the private label piece last year as the very difficult commodity environment was playing out we made choices around both private label and pricing that we had executed in the fourth quarter last year.
And so that's the piece that you see that has flowed through to private label gross margin improvements all of this year as well.
That's helpful Chris.
And then just one more from me.
In the past you've talked about the desire to add new products to your base rate organically or through acquisitions.
Does the recent share repurchase – does that change that strategy in any way or is it more you just saw an opportunity and your balance sheet was in a position where you could take advantage of an attractive stock price? I think it was all about opportunistic.
It doesn't change our long-term algorithm at all.
We saw an opportunity and felt like it was a good opportunity.
So no.
I would tell you it doesn't change our outlook.
Thank you Gregg.
And our next question comes from John Baumgartner.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg I would like to ask about DairyPure.
And then I guess it's still very early days but how are you thinking about the opportunities to extend that label across your other products like the culture products and ice creams? I mean is there a situation where your branded competitors in those categories are using milk sourced from hormone-treated cows where you might have an advantage and maybe grow those businesses going forward? Look I would say it's one that – stay tuned because we believe that DairyPure once established in the consumers' mind has a lot of adjacency capabilities.
So we will continue to look at it.
I think you saw that already in the third quarter as we introduced creams and creamers and half-and-half.
We're now extending DairyPure into the schools and putting it on our school milk.
And I think I spoke about it in our written comments about lactose-free.
As we enter 2016 we'll enter the lactose-free category which is an area that we really haven't played in a lot.
So yeah.
I think there continues to be additional adjacencies and line extensions that we can take DairyPure into.
And Gregg you made a brief comment about expanding into adjacencies in your prepared remarks.
Do you feel that you have the capabilities internally to go and pursue those adjacencies or would that come through M&amp;A? I think it will depend on what the adjacency is.
So we've got some certain manufacturing capabilities and distribution capabilities obviously that can take a regional brand national pretty quickly.
We also have manufacturing network that's second to none in my opinion.
So I think it will depend on which one it is.
So there's some that we can do it within our own portfolio and expand within our portfolio and build the brand.
Or there may be opportunities that we need to go out and buy a brand or one of the categories or adjacencies that we need to be in.
Great.
And then Chris just in terms of thinking about EBIT per gallon going forward I guess it wasn't too long ago that $0.07 per gallon was kind of aspirational for you.
And in the past two quarters you're closer to $0.09 to $0.10 EBIT per gallon range.
How do you think about – with between commodity volatility and underlying cost savings coming through what's the right way to think about a new normal for Dean if there is one in terms of EBIT per gallon? So we talked about – this time last year we were talking about could we get back to $0.08 a gallon in 2015.
That was a marker that we had established in 2013.
Obviously it didn't get anywhere close to that through all of 2014.
But we said as we take some of these pricing actions as cost productivity initiatives continue to gain traction and play out can we get back to $0.08 a gallon in 2015.
And obviously as you've said we've now gone beyond that and by some measures perhaps well beyond that.
So I think the focus going forward into 2016 and beyond kind of to my earlier question to I think it was Clay's question if we're going to achieve our longer-term goals of mid single-digit operating income growth continued rate improvement is going to be a major part in that because our focus there given the challenges that the category continues to experience the focus is going to be more on rate than it is on volume.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
You bet.
Your next question comes from Eric Katzman.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> I apologize; I had to hop on late so if this is something that you already covered in the slide presentation I'll get back to it.
But I just – I'm trying to remember Gregg whether you were at Dean when the local and regional brands were very profitable relative to private label.
And then obviously that got wiped out around the Great Recession.
And so I just wanted to get a sense – early days again on DairyPure but where – as the brand gets established where can it go relative to history when local and regional brands had some equity in the minds of consumers? And is it really just about the price premium that you could get for it or is – how much of the economies of scale and what cost advantages you can have with that single national brand platform? Maybe just kind of maybe frame that for us if possible.
Well I don't know all the history Eric but I think as we look at DairyPure and the opportunities that it avails itself I think the biggest thing that I see is just getting the consumers back to what I think is a category that's very on trend as I talked about in my prepared remarks.
But I think it's really about how do we convert people from private label into branded products.
And I think DairyPure seems to be going down that path.
So like I said I can't speak to the historical norms but I think it's much more than just a pricing mechanism.
I think it truly is a differentiating product and at least that's the feedback that we continue to get from our consumers and early on read.
So whether it can get back to the historical regional and locals I don't know.
But Chris do you want to...
Eric the other thing I'd say is if the period of time you're talking about where I think you sort of said the profitability of the brands was wiped out that was kind of that 2009-2010 timeframe.
Maybe you and I could debate the history of that.
But I actually think for processors in general certainly Dean Foods included in that group the profit wipeout that occurred then was actually more focused on private label and less on brands.
Our brands have certainly felt their own pressure over the last five years or so since the start of the Great Recession.
But I would tell you I think we've felt more pressure on the private label side than on the branded side.
It goes back to something I said a second ago.
Our very strong brand offering even before DairyPure our strong regional brand equity allowed the profitability there to weather that storm with retailers better than the private label business did.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
Next question really more on the cost side.
I don't again know if you talked about this but where are you in terms of the DSD capacity utilization? And in terms of any sense on the industry's processing capacity utilization and whether that's improved a bit since maybe last quarter or last time we spoke about it? Yeah.
I would tell you Eric I feel really good about our actions we're taking to improve our cost structure.
I think our cost productivity continues to be very focused agenda.
We unfortunately shut down another facility in the third quarter.
And we continue to keep trying to find that balance in trade-offs of improved rate utilization and clearly benefiting the income statement as a whole.
But I think it's one where – if we look at our asset utilization today it's as high as it's been since the time that I've been here.
I'm looking around the room to see if anybody's going to shake their head yes or no.
But I would tell you that I think it's as high as any time that I've been here.
And I think that'll continue to improve because I think we continue to get better and better at driving our own internal efficiencies which then allows us to take additional costs out of the system.
And that's what we need to continue to do as we move forward.
I can tell you from a logistics standpoint we continue to drive the utilization of our trucks.
It's the big items that we continue to focus on our frequency and our asset utilization within our distribution network.
And I think the logistics team is all over it.
So I feel good about where we're at from a cost perspective.
The only thing I'd point you to Eric for capacity utilization is the dramatic improvement in the category.
A year ago we're sitting here looking at a 3.6% decline in category.
Now it's just 90 basis points.
So that improvement if that 90 basis points if you can sort of play that forward that 2.7 percentage points of improvement against the 6 billion gallon category that represents almost 170 million more gallons for the industry something to the extent of five or six plants that previously would have been empty but now would be full with that improved category.
So that in itself would do an awful lot for category industry utilization.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
All right.
Thank you.
Take care.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just had a question for you if I could on – we talked last quarter about some more – and it's typical at this time when milk prices are so low but some more RFP activity.
And competitive conditions are always high in this category.
I just thought I would see if – are you seeing any incremental new volume you are taking on? Maybe related to that is there any greater focus on profitability over volumes such that market share – volume-based market share isn't maybe the best metric for measuring Dean Foods here in the short run? I think we're still seeing normal levels in the marketplace from RFPs.
We're not seeing anything out of the ordinary at least within our industry.
So I don't think that that's doing anything – and I'll let Chris speak to the price versus volume scenario.
But from my perspective I think we're going to continue to try and balance whether that's the right KPI or not.
I can't speak to...
Chris I'd pick up exactly where Gregg just left off kind of around balance.
I think this year we have tried to pursue a price volume strategy that's striking the right balance.
We've clearly put our best foot forward on pricing this year.
And as a result you've seen our results what I would characterize as modest maybe even a very modest decline in our share down 60 bps versus prior-year quarter.
So we think that balance that our field teams have been able to strike between price and share has been one of our keys to success this year.
That remains very much our focus looking forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And maybe just one follow-up question if I could.
In relation to all the cost reduction activities that are occurring across the company from another plant closure to the logistics cost savings that are coming through maybe rather than looking forward assuming you don't want to do that but what is the – was there a gross level of cost savings you expect for this year for 2015? And can you give us any kind of indication for that number maybe in 2016 continuing as well? Yeah.
I mean we've always said that we kind of targeted an $80 million to $100 million of cost reductions.
If you look at where we're at on a rate basis on a per gallon basis we need to have declining costs.
So I think if you – we've made some reinvestment into our business this year and put some money into our plants and into our logistics network to re-wrap trailers and to upgrade a few of our facilities that needed some work.
But if you take the one-time expenses out of there we were actually seeing sequential decline or a reduced decline from a year ago.
So our cost basis continues to be – it will always be a focus as long as we're running this thing because it's where the biggest opportunity lies to allow us to reinvest behind the rest of our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Alexia Howard.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Hi Alexia.
Hi.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First of all on advertising spending you've obviously started to put that behind the DairyPure brand.
Do you anticipate that that's going to be ramping up over the next several years or are you pretty happy with where you are at the moment? I think we're pretty happy with where we're at right now.
I think as we come out and start with additional line extensions depending on how big any of those line extensions are we may need to ramp it up a touch but I'm pretty happy with where we're at right now.
And I think as we continue to get in to build other brands we'll obviously have introductory needs from a marketing perspective but I'm pretty happy with where we're at.
That other brand is a good piece to be clear on as well.
Alexia keep in mind that a portion of this year's advertising investment has also gone against TruMoo.
It's not just a DairyPure investment.
Great.
And just as a quick follow-up.
How confident are you that the share losses are pretty much behind you now? I mean we look at new brands coming up like fairlife Horizon Organic seems to be doing a bit better at the moment.
Are you really confident that this kind of share is roughly where you are going to stay? Thank you.
And I will pass it on.
All right.
I am confident that it's about where we will stay if not pick it up as we try to increase our brand mix versus our private label.
And I think if you look to the sequential nature from second quarter to third quarter we picked up 10 basis points.
That's still really early on in DairyPure but I would anticipate that that would continue to grow as we continue to push DairyPure.
Thank you.
And I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen I will now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods.
And have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.