Good morning and welcome to the Dean Foods Company Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings conference call.
Please note that today’s call is being recorded and is also being broadcast live over the internet on the Dean Foods corporate website.
This broadcast is the property of Dean Foods.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of the company is strictly prohibited.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over for opening remarks to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance Ms.
Sherri Baker.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Kat and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call.
This morning we issued an earnings press release which is available on our website at deanfoods.com.
The press release is also filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K which is available on the SEC’s website at SEC.gov.
A slide presentation which accompanies today’s prepared remarks is also available during this call at the Dean Foods website.
A replay of today’s call along with the slide presentation will be available on our website beginning this afternoon.
Throughout today’s call the earnings per share operating income interest expense EBITDA and free cash flow information that will be provided are from continuing operations and have been adjusted to exclude expenses and other gains or losses related to facility closings reorganizations and realignments asset write-downs litigation matters integration and separation costs and other non-recurring items.
We would also like to advise you that all forward-looking statements made on today’s call are intended to fall within the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements will include among others disclosure of earnings targets as well as expectations regarding anticipated volumes price realization dairy commodity pricing cost savings network optimization plans regional and national branding initiatives the timing of product launches our capital structure the payment of any future dividends potential share repurchases our leverage ratio and various other aspects of our business.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made on today’s conference call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the company’s periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q as well as in today’s earnings release.
Participating with me in the prepared section of today’s call are Gregg Tanner our Chief Executive Officer and Chris Bellairs our Chief Financial Officer.
Gregg will start us off with a review of our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Chris will then offer some additional perspective on our financial results before turning the call back to Gregg for comments on the forward outlook and other closing remarks.
We will then open the call to your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Gregg for his opening remarks.
Gregg? Thank you Sherri and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
You may have noticed that the voice you heard was not Scott Vopni.
Scott has recently moved over to lead our field finance organization in addition to his role as Chief Accounting Officer.
Joining us on the call today is Sherri Baker who we recently promoted to VP of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance.
This morning we reported fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings of $0.36 per share towards the high end of our previously provided guidance range.
For the quarter we reported adjusted operating income of $67 million which equates to over $0.10 a gallon.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in operating income.
From a full-year perspective we reported adjusted operating income of $248 million and an adjusted diluted earnings of $1.23 per share.
Full year adjusted EBITDA was $404 million and we generated $246 million of free cash flow.
In 2015 we maintained our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
Between our quarterly dividend and the Q3 share repurchase we returned $79 million to shareholders or approximately 69% of full-year adjusted net income.
I’m very pleased with the sequential improvement we saw in our operational and financial performance from Q3 to Q4.
I believe the full year 2015 financial results demonstrate that we have chosen the right initiatives to focus on and we are executing at very high levels.
As I look to the future I believe our financial position and the momentum of our strong operating performance will allow us to continue to grow our business and create shareholder value.
Before I walk through the highlights of our operating performance I want to take a few moments to discuss the dairy commodity landscape.
We expect global dairy fundamentals to continue to be overall supportive to our business as production growth continues to outpace demand.
Year-over-year total milk production from the top seven exporters continues to increase albeit at a much slower pace compared to the initial robust expansion experienced in 2014.
The EU remains a leading contributor as their milk production has increased year-over-year by more than 5% largely due to the elimination of milk quotas at the end of March of last year.
This is meaningful when one considers that the overall size of the European dairy production is over 1.5 times larger than that of the U.S.
and approximately seven times larger than that of New Zealand.
The rapidly expanding EU supply has taken place against the backdrop of an ongoing Russian import ban.
Moreover China seems to remain well supplied as its greater than 2% year-over-year milk supply growth stabilizes and demand holds against the backdrop of lackluster economic performance.
In the U.S.
we continue to see gradual domestic supply growth due to a slightly larger herd and productivity growth more than offsetting the impact of the drought in California.
These supply and demand factors should contribute to a relatively benign dairy commodity environment over the short term.
With regards to the winter storms in the southwest and northeast we empathize with the farmers and ranchers who had to manage through those storms but as you know Dean Foods has a longstanding and demonstrated history of operational excellence during severe and inclement weather incidences.
With the flexibility of our milk supply and our national network we operated through both winter storms with minimal impact to our processing operations our customers or our consumers.
In Q4 raw milk costs were essentially flat to Q3.
The quarterly average cost for the fourth quarter was $16.34 per hundredweight which represents a decline of $7.25 or 31% on a year-over-year basis.
Overall we experienced relatively modest cost movements within the quarter.
With regards to the dairy commodity outlook raw milk costs for the first quarter will average $14.49 per hundredweight which represents an approximately 11% decrease sequentially and approximately 14% year-over-year.
On a per-gallon basis this equates to a sequential decline of $0.16 and year-over-year decline of $0.20.
Moving to pricing through the quarter the margin over milk or the spread between Class 1 mover and the retail price of private label gallons of fresh milk in the grocery channel declined at a heightened rate as compared with modest changes in the cost of raw milk.
While the Class 1 mover average remained flat the margin over milk decreased from $1.54 per gallon in Q3 to $1.48 per gallon in Q4.
December’s margin over milk exit rate was $1.44 nearly $0.09 per gallon down from September’s margin over milk.
This reflects the low point in 2015 as retailers’ compressed margins despite the relatively flat cost of raw milk.
We recognize these levels of margin over milk have not been seen since 2014; however we do not believe this is indicative of material pricing tensions within the marketplace.
Our volume performance continues to be impacted by choices we have made with respect to our rate realization strategy and channel dynamics offset by an improving category.
In the fourth quarter total Dean Foods volumes across all products of 658 million gallons were largely in line with our expectations.
The declines in our fluid milk products were largely due to private label losses from a few large format customers and represent a 3.6% year-over-year decline.
Specifically within large format private label white milk volume in Q4 declined 9% year-over-year.
Across our other non-fluid milk product categories year-over-year volume declines were largely offset by a more than 11% increase in our ice cream volume performance.
On a full year basis total volumes for all products declined approximately 3% to 2.6 billion gallons.
Fluid milk sales data published by USDA through December show a Q4 decline of 1.1% on a year-over-year basis.
This caps off the year with another quarter of strong performance and shows an improvement in the health of the fluid milk category.
Similarly category revivals are seen at retail within IRI-based data with Q4 fluid milk sales experiencing a 1% decline year-over-year.
This marks the best category performance at retail going back through at least 2011.
In tandem with these indicators of recovery is a marked year-over-year decline in the growth of both organic and almond milk categories.
After stabilizing in the first three quarters of 2015 we saw a modest decline in our Q4 share sequentially down 50 basis points from 35.2% to 34.7%.
This share change was driven mostly by the loss of large format private label volume concentrated among a few customers predominantly in one region where significant milk over-supply has led to more aggressive pricing by processors and cooperatives.
In Q4 our branded white milk share only declined 10 basis points versus Q3.
Across the majority of our markets fluid milk volume performance is meeting or exceeding our expectations.
We remain diligent in securing volume with margins that reflect a level of service and quality we provide to our customers.
Balancing share and price realization will continue to be a point of focus in 2016.
We are taking a balanced approach to managing volume margin and price realization as we focus on sustaining long-term growth.
Throughout 2015 we have worked diligently to manage our brand’s value at retail both through price points and price gaps.
Within the grocery channel our brands average $3.60 per gallon at retail down $0.48 versus Q4 of 2014 and down $0.06 versus Q3 2015.
As a result the price gap between our brands and private label was $0.71 per gallon a $0.05 increase versus Q4 of 2014.
As compared to Q3 of 2015 there was only a penny decline in the price gap.
The declines in price gap versus the first half of 2015 are partially reflective of promotional pricing associated with our DairyPure launch.
For the full year the price gap to private label was $0.74 a $0.09 increase versus 2014.
These price points and price gaps demonstrate that we successfully managed the relationships and balance we set out to achieve.
It further demonstrates that DairyPure is strengthening our brand value with consumers.
In MULO+C store while our branded white milk volumes are down around 3% year-over-year our dollar share is up 50 basis points versus a year ago.
In terms of our branded versus private label white milk mix for Q4 we averaged 35.7%.
This is 140 basis points better than Q3 of 2015 and 80 basis points better than Q4 of 2014.
As a reminder our branded while milk mix includes DairyPure and all of our other brands all of which have varying economics across different channels and geographies.
Given the continuation of higher price gaps at retail we continue to be pleased with our branded mix and sequential growth from Q3 to Q4.
As we have previously discussed these data points have been adjusted for the Q4 2014 switch from Dean branded products to private label products by one of our large customers within the club channel.
The flavored milk category has been a success story for the industry in 2015.
The retail category volumes saw a marked improvement with a 10% increase in Q4 and 7% for the full year versus same time periods in 2014.
Within MULO+C store TruMoo volume grew 2.5% and our private label flavored milk volume grew by 12% versus 2014.
Across all channel our total flavored milk year-over-year volume was down just 20 basis points for Q4 and essentially flat for the full year.
The positive volume growth we see in both the category and our TruMoo products is a great fit for bringing innovative new products including five seasonal flavors for year-round availability.
Our national while milk brand DairyPure has shown positive results behind the support of incremental advertising and promotional spend.
For the full year total advertising investment across all products was $45 million a 63% increase versus 2014.
In addition we are able to leverage DairyPure in exciting new co-promotions on a national scale as demonstrated with our recent advertising partnerships with Mondelez and Oreo cookies in Wal-Mart stores.
We believe that the progress of DairyPure and the continued success of TruMoo will provide us with a platform and enable our road map for our commercial and brand initiatives moving forward.
We believe we can drive additional velocity and share through innovation customer partnerships focused channel penetration and new distribution.
Looking to 2016 we will continue our brand and commercial momentum by extending DairyPure into the lactose-free category launching nutrient rich products like the recently launched TruMoo Calcium Plus and driving category excitement through year-round limited time offerings under our TruMoo brand.
Additionally as the only fresh dairy company in the U.S.
able to advertise nationally we’ll continue to drive new distribution of our DairyPure products including fluid milk half-and-half and whipping cream.
While product line extensions are important entering growth categories is equally important.
Through a long-term partnership with the Caribou Coffee Company starting in March we will launch Caribou Iced Coffee in a ready-to-drink coffee space.
Building off our strong ice cream performance this year we have made significant formulation upgrades to our ice cream brands and made investments in our ice cream innovation pipeline to meet evolving consumer needs.
Our commercial organization has a sharp focus on volume growth through innovation and increasing distribution points in customers and in channels with products of attractive margin profiles.
Now I will turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our financial results.
Chris? Thank you Gregg and good morning everyone.
I’ll walk through the Q4 and full-year results as well as provide a review of our balance sheet and cash flow performance.
Starting at the top of the P&amp;L as compared to the year ago quarter while total volumes declined 3.6% in Q4 our gross profit increased due to several key factors including pricing actions and the associated increase in the margin pool for our branded milk portfolio volume-driven performance from our portfolio of ice cream products and declining costs and ingredients and packaging savings.
The positive impact of these factors was partially offset by mix shifts and fixed cost deleverage within our operating plants.
With net price realization improving we reported adjusted gross profit of $509 million in Q4.
This represents a $66 million improvement versus the year-ago quarter and represents our highest fourth quarter gross profit since 2012.
Below the gross profit line total company operating expenses increased approximately $25 million from the year-ago period.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $10 million primarily due to incremental investment in advertising and promotions.
The increase is also partially due to the distribution penalty associated with delivering products back into areas surrounding closed facilities as well as higher labor costs including increases in health benefit costs offset by lower fuel-related costs.
The increase in SG&amp;A expense was primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation associated with higher earnings and advertising.
SG&amp;A costs excluding advertising and incentive comp were up $7 million versus year-ago levels driven by bad debt expense and other non-recurring expenses.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $41 million to $67 million.
Below the operating income line interest expense increased $1 million from the year-ago period.
The marginally higher interest rate expense in combination with our normalized adjusted tax rate of 38% yield adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.36.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $107 million a $40 million increase from $67 million in the prior year period.
On a full year basis gross profit increased $297 million driven by price realization and lower input costs.
Operating expenses including incentive comp and advertising increased $86 million which represents a 5% increase versus year-ago levels.
Selling and logistics expenses increased $20 million primarily due to incremental advertising expense.
With incentive comps up year over year due to strong operating performance general and administrative expenses increased $65 million.
In total we experienced a year-over-year operating income increase of $211 million to a total of $248 million.
Below operating income a $6 million increase in interest expense coupled with a normalized adjusted 38% tax rate resulted in a full-year adjusted net income of $115 million or adjusted diluted earnings of $1.23 per share.
For 2015 adjusted EBITDA was $404 million up 208 versus year-over-year.
Overall our full year operating results are reflective of solid execution across all our functions.
For Q4 gross profit per gallon improved 19% versus Q4 2014.
For the quarter operating income was $67 million or $0.102 a gallon which represents a $0.064 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period and an increase of almost a penny sequentially.
As Gregg mentioned Q4 is the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
The improvement in our financial results is predominantly due to the pricing actions we have taken and their effect on net price realization.
On a full-year basis gross profit per gallon improved 22% versus 2014.
Full-year operating income was $248 million or $0.094 per gallon which represents an $0.081 per gallon increase versus the year-ago period.
We continue to execute against our cost productivity agenda across all facets of our supply chain.
In 2015 we closed two additional plants further reducing excess capacity in our network and driving higher asset utilization and efficiency.
We will offset a portion of the savings in increased transportation costs also known as the distribution penalty; however we do continue to see volume deleverage outpacing the benefits we expected to realize from network optimization.
We are continuing to look for opportunities to optimize our network across the supply chain.
To address volume deleverage and the distribution penalty or the increased miles drive resulting from plant closures our logistics organization continues to make meaningful improvements through delivery reductions and filling our trucks.
This focus led to an $11.2 million reduction in miles equating to a 7% year-over-year reduction.
In addition our efforts resulted in a 2.1 million gallon reduction in fuel usage representing nearly a 6% reduction in overall fuel usage.
On the sustainability front we continue to make progress in reductions in our production facilities.
On an annual basis we drove a 1.3% reduction in kilowatt usage a 1.9% reduction in natural gas consumption and a 2.65% reduction in solid waste.
We experienced a slight increase in water usage of 1%.
In procurement we moved a significant portion of our dairy grade HDPE resin from a brokerage arrangement to an in-house procurement model.
As a result we have been able to eliminate brokerage costs and achieve lower costs for the raw material.
All told we delivered a solid cost productivity agenda in 2015.
Turning now to our free cash flow performance cash flow from continuing operations was $408 million for the 12 months ended December 31 2015.
This is $255 million higher than the prior year due to our strong operating results and lower working capital investment against the backdrop of an approximately 30% year-over-year decline in the Class 1 raw milk price.
We reinvested a portion of this operating cash flow into our business with capital expenditures totaling $163 million which is slightly elevated versus the guidance we provided on the previous call.
In Q4 we purchased an ice cream facility with capability to service both low and high altitudes in the western portion of the U.S.
This acquisition accounted for most of the increase in full-year capex relative to our previous guidance of $150 million.
For 2015 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $246 million.
Excluding the $56 million associated with our 2014 federal tax refund received in Q1 our free cash flow from continuing operations was $190 million.
This is $185 million higher than the prior year.
Our full-year 2015 free cash flow has been primarily utilized to refinance extend and pay down our debt to pay our dividend and to opportunistically repurchase shares.
From a balance sheet perspective we reduced our total net debt outstanding to $782 million as of the end of the fourth quarter compared to $901 million as of the end of year 2014.
On an all-cash netted basis our total leverage has improved to 1.89 times net debt to EBITDA.
This represents the fourth sequential quarterly improvement and is over 2.5 full turns lower than where we began the year.
This highlights our ability to rapidly reduce leverage on the strength of our free cash flow while investing in our business and returning cash to shareholders.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Gregg who will provide some additional commentary before opening the call for your questions.
Gregg? Thanks Chris.
Looking forward to 2016 with the continuation of commercial and brand initiatives diligent cost focus and an overall favorable commodity environment we expect our strong operating and financial momentum to continue.
We expect adjusted Q1 earnings per share to be largely in line with our Q4 results.
We’ll continue to invest in incremental advertising to support our national brands and new product introductions as they help drive channel and distribution growth.
For the first quarter on a year-over-year basis we expect total volumes to decline low single digits with one additional selling day due to leap year.
All told we expect Q1 adjusted diluted EPS of between $0.32 and $0.42 per share.
For full year 2016 we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $160 million consistent with our capital spend in 2015.
Going forward we are executing a clear vision for our company to be the most admired and trusted provider of wholesome great-tasting dairy products at every occasion.
We are strategically and organizationally aligned to position the company for long-term success and to create shareholder value.
Our agenda is clear and we are focused on initiatives and opportunities to first enhance future capabilities.
We will foster an engaged and aligned organization with a consumer mindset.
We’ll improve processes and technology to enable cross-functional decision-making to create opportunities to build our business.
Secondly we’ll drive operational excellence.
As we increase plant and transportation efficiencies simplify our portfolio and standardize processes we will also optimize our network for efficiency and flexibility to deliver new products and routes to market.
Third we’ll transform our go-to-market capabilities.
We’ll expand our reach to meet evolving consumer needs while more profitably serving customers through new delivery and production capabilities.
We will drive efficiencies through standardized business principles and customer collaboration.
Fourth we’ll strengthen our private label business.
We will enhance profitability by lowering internal costs partnering with our customers and driving standard practices across our business.
We will strategically target key customers and growing channels.
Last we’ll build and buy brands.
In addition to evaluating and considering strategic opportunities we will build our existing brands with consumer-led innovation marketing and logistical excellence.
Lastly I would like to congratulate our Division of the Year award winner the Michigan division.
Their operational excellence and profitable growth without compromising quality safety or service helped to make 2015 a terrific year for Dean Foods.
To all of our employees thank you for your hard work in 2015 and your relentless focus on executing our agenda.
I am confident in the momentum we carry into 2016.
With that I will ask the operator to open the call to your questions.
Operator? [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for the question.
Gregg one of the areas that you’ve really tried to drive home for investors is the distribution cost opportunities in the first innings more or less yet we continue to see kind of that year-on-year growth in the selling and distribution line on the P&amp;L.
Can you maybe just walk through the opportunities there that you envision and maybe the timing for any realization of benefits on that front? Yes John I think it’s one where we continue to focus on the leverage.
I think if you look at the increase in the sales dollars or in the sales and logistics costs the majority of that is advertising so I think you have to ignore the sales cost side of it.
But there continues to be tremendous opportunity for us to reduce our logistics costs and the things we’re really focused on are filling up the trucks and secondly frequency.
We have to continue to drive frequency.
As we de-lever with the volumes we have to change our frequency of delivery to our customers so we continue to work on our frequency.
We also continue to work on the utilization cube utilization of our trucks and those are the two big pieces.
We also continue to look at our network.
We have a number of distribution points currently what we would call depots and we continue to look at the number of depots that we have and whether or not they’re located in the right places and are servicing the customers the way we need.
Okay and then as a follow-up as you get more and more traction behind DairyPure how should we think about your focus maybe more on driving the top line with mix into faster growth categories? You had some highlights on the Caribou and some of the ice cream growth there but when you think about internal capabilities whether it be R&amp;D the ESL pasteurization and so on what you can do internally versus what capabilities you have to really acquire into and are there assets out there in the market to go and make those acquisitions? Great question.
I would tell you that it’s probably all of the above.
When I think about the capabilities that we need to drive internally we need to drive corrugated capability we need to make sure we continue to focus on extended shelf life which then translates into facilitating our innovation pipeline.
We have invested more into our R&amp;D organization so trying to get a more robust innovation pipeline going not only across ice cream but across many of our other product lines.
So I think it’s all of the above and I think the majority of that we can do internally but we’ll continue to look at opportunities from a brand perspective externally as well.
Great thanks Gregg.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Farah Aslam with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Farah.
You’re introducing a number of new products this year and I noticed in your prepared remarks you mentioned that marketing last year was up about $20 million.
Could you just give us a read on how much a rough estimate marketing should be up this year and if these number of new products you anticipate to be margin accretive this year or do you think this is an investment piece and that we’ll get the benefits next year? Yes I’ll take the first part of that and then I’ll turn it over to Chris and let him talk about the accretive nature of the new products.
But from a marketing perspective we haven’t talked about how much we invest behind any of the given brands or introductions but I’ll tell you that we’ll continue to invest it at above category levels.
So our expectation this year as we introduce new products is we will make sure that we have the appropriate marketing expense behind those and then obviously we’ll continue to support DairyPure and TruMoo this year as we have in past years.
I think you could expect that our marketing expenses will continue to rise.
With that let me turn it over to Chris and see if he wants to talk about the margin.
Yes Farah on balance across the portfolio of innovation and new product introductions in 2016 we expect it to be accretive.
As you can imagine within that portfolio of activities some are more accretive and some actually will pay out into the latter parts of 2016 even into 2017.
But on balance the entire slate of initiatives is accretive and remember on advertising we talked through 2015 about how our success throughout the year allowed us to opportunistically reinvest more in advertising so that’s one of the reasons we’re a little reluctant to go too far into talking about 2016 plans because again we sort of retain that ability to invest behind successes as the year is going well.
Great and just as a follow-up your first quarter guidance was quite strong.
Do you anticipate this to be your biggest quarter of the year? I know you don’t give annual guidance but some cadence on earnings throughout the year would be really helpful.
You know I think we expect the momentum to continue as we come out of the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
It’s our expectation barring major commodity shifts and other issues we would expect the momentum to continue as we go throughout the year.
We don’t see anything right now out there to tell us otherwise.
There are a number of moving parts in the Q1 guidance Farah so on the tailwind side of the equation as you could tell we’ve got favorable Class 1 costing which will translate into favorable gross profit for our Class 1 products.
We also have favorable overlap on incentive comp.
We talked throughout all of last year about above-plan performance leading to above-plan incentive comp so that’s a favorable tailwind in Q1.
There are also a number of headwinds in Q1 so on the flipside of commodity pricing Class 2 costing due to the high butterfat cost will actually be a headwind and due to the higher fat content in Class 2 products that will offset some of the Class 1 upside.
Then obviously you heard Gregg guide to low single digit volume declines so that remains a headwind in the near term.
Then finally advertising expense up in Q1 year-over year - recall last year in Q1 we had not yet introduced DairyPure so this year you’re now kind of into the fourth quarter of that rolling rollout.
So you’ve got a number of moving parts in there and obviously that will continue throughout the year as well.
Understood.
Very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning Eric.
I guess my first question not to focus on the negative in some respects but I was a bit surprised that the volume was so weak.
I guess Gregg or Chris can you give a little bit more detail on--I guess you said it was one region and generally private label oriented.
Is that what really drove the weaker volume and then how should we think about that for the coming year? I’ll take a shot at it and let Chris jump in but--and I think you hit it right on the head.
It is the majority of it is private label and it is primarily in the upper midwest.
If you think about the growth in the U.S.
milk supply that majority of that is coming out of the upper midwest and their milk supply was up 3.6% so there’s a lot of over-supply in the upper midwest and that is where we saw the hit.
I don’t think that will continue forever but that is where most of the milk supply is right now so the pressures in the upper midwest is where we saw that hit.
I’m actually very encouraged by the overall improvement of the category and outside of the upper midwest I’m encouraged by the volumes that we’re seeing and how well it’s holding up with the price realization that we’re getting.
And certainly encouraged by our mix as well.
Just a little bit more specificity around those numbers there if you go back to third quarter year-over-year total Dean Food volumes were down 15 million gallons versus prior and the fourth quarter we were down 25 million gallons year-over-year.
The majority of that increase the 10 million gallon step-down in growth rate was in private label white milk.
So you started off your question sort of describing it as a negative but in fact--you know certainly losing volume is a negative but at the end of the day we view that as kind of indicative of us executing against our strategy which is to on the private label white milk side be very choiceful around products that are at or near breakeven.
That’s a place that we’re putting a lot of scrutiny.
Okay and then as my follow-up I guess this is somewhat of a bigger picture question but it sounded like today you’ve decided to push more into new products into categories that maybe haven’t been as much of a focus - the iced coffee and ice cream and that would be--assuming you’re successful that would be helpful to improving the utilization of the network.
As you know we kind of wrote a report about the DSD and the value of it.
So with regard to--it sounds like you’re going to do what you can to fill up the trucks internally but to the extent that you now have a very strong balance sheet I guess what are you thinking in terms of other ways of rewarding shareholders with the cash flow and the balance sheet versus doing something more strategic with the DSD? I think you’re seeing some of it now Eric as we look to expand our DairyPure platform as we look to expand our TruMoo platform and as we look to other beverages that we can put into our distribution network and we’ll continue to look at that through other branded products as well.
I think what we’ve found as we have looked around finding national products of scale that could really not add a lot of complexity but add a lot of synergy to our network they’re hard to find so I think a lot of that we’ve got to be able to do internally.
But we’ll continue to look for opportunities externally as well to try and fill the box up.
And then I think we have to continue to give more just basic blocking and tackling getting a whole lot more efficient in our network as well because I think that will improve our utilization.
And then on the balance sheet cash flow side? I think we’re going to continue on the path that we’ve been on and that is continue to pay our dividend.
We’re going to continue to look opportunistically for share repurchase and we’re going to invest in our business not necessarily in that specific order.
All right I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Can I just ask about the cost saving goal for this year? I think typically you’ve said $80 million to $100 million.
Is it in that ballpark again for this year or is there any more color on that? It’s going to be in that same ballpark.
We’re going to continue our strong focus around cost and productivity.
I think the difficult part is the deleverage so we have to stay focused on our cost structure.
I think the organization has done a great job of doing that and we’re going to continue to look at our network and see what we need to do to be more efficient and effective in what we do.
So no I think you should expect that our productivity will continue.
Great and just as a follow-up the DairyPure--well branded side of the fluid milk business were those volume trends year-on-year improving? I know you said you got a positive mix shift of 140 basis points at the end of last year but in terms of year-on-year volume growth how fast is that branded milk business growing at this point? I think since our launch we’ve seen our dollar and our unit velocity has improved in each consecutive month and we’ve seen some recent ACV gains.
I don’t know exactly what the volume side of that is but I think we’ve seen several large key grocery customers that have taken it on so I can’t tell you exactly what our volume gain has been but I know we’re getting ACV gains and we’re also seeing good velocities.
I think the other thing is we have got strong brand awareness scores in our repeat trial scores with over 80% of those who have tried DairyPure or trying the product again so we’re very pleased with the performance to date.
It’s still early on but I think we’ll see it continue.
Alexia our branded growth rates since the launch of DairyPure have definitely been improving and that improvement is coming still in the context of a pretty aggressive price environment.
Great thank you very much.
I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Amit.
Chris could you give us some context on what is the contribution from one extra selling day in 1Q? Yes our gallons sold per day if you’re going to go through the calculation is about 8 million gallons a day.
Okay so we should prorate that over total volume that would be the expected contribution for one extra day? Yes so for the quarter it ends up being about a percent of extra volume growth.
Got it.
And then just continuing the conversation on the branded if we look at the DairyPure it looks like unless I misheard that you lost some share on the branded side of it.
That tells me that maybe you’re pushing a little bit more on the pricing side of it which is fine.
In terms of the payoff from that should we expect either the mix shift or the profit contribution from DairyPure to get better as you’re able to establish that brand a bit more? Yes absolutely.
You’re describing exactly what’s happening so sort of flat to modest share decline or modest share growth but that share performance in the context of substantially better gross profit per gallon performance.
That’s sort of the quantitative side of DairyPure.
On the qualitative side you saw in Gregg’s portion of the prepared remarks the new products that we’re able to roll out in 2016 so focused on those whipping cream and half-and-half items that today tend to have lower distribution than our branded white milk products and have attractive margin profiles.
So we think DairyPure--we think the branded white milk side of DairyPure very much is an enabler to increasing distribution and increasing volume on some of those other products.
This is a question to Gregg.
Gregg what are we seeing is that the deleveraging impact of volume losses continues to overwhelm.
Yes margins are up but if you look at the potential there it continues to offset the benefit that we get either from mix shift or cost savings.
Are you still convinced that it is the right strategy to maybe give up the volumes in favor of more price realization going forward? I am Amit.
I think as long as we can--you know when you look at the trade-off that we’re making the advantage we have is that we have such a large network available to us to continue to manage our way through the deleverage.
I think as you start seeing it at levels that we saw in the fourth quarter that means you’ve got to really pick up the cost savings to offset it.
So I’d like to see that be a little less than it was in the fourth quarter and I think we’re seeing some of that momentum but that would be my biggest concern is that if we stayed at the levels we were at in the fourth quarter at some point you would have to start to shift that.
But to date I’ve been extremely pleased with the trade-off that we’ve made in between the price realization and the deleverage that it has.
Again we still have a big network and an opportunity to take significant costs out of the network.
As you know Amit it’s all about which volume you’re losing so you heard me I think in response to Eric’s question focus on private label white being the place where much of the volume decline in the fourth quarter and in fact throughout all of 2015 much of that volume decline was sourced from.
When you look in the fourth quarter and you see ice cream volumes up 11% and branded white milk volumes not yet growing but declining at a substantially slower rate than they had been that kind of mix shift in the context of overall declining volume is very powerful.
And then you throw the flavored milk category in on top of that and it starts to feel pretty good.
So just to wrap it up is it then more reasonable to expect that margins will remain stabilized or will be more sticky even if the commodity environment becomes less favorable given the mix shift? That would be our expectation.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Gottlieb with DA Davidson.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking my questions.
First touching off the expected milk decline for the first quarter if you take out the midwest region what do you expect for the rest of the country? I think we’ll see California continue to decline.
I think we’ll still see some slight growth in the northwest.
I think you’ll see the southwest bounce back more as they work their way through the storm and some of the issues but I think they’ll continue to decline; and then I think you’ll see the northeast continue to go up as well.
So we’re expecting across the network anywhere between zero and 1% growth but we’ll still see growth.
I think the other thing that wasn’t in our prepared remarks is that we’re seeing export volumes continue to decline so it’s leaving more milk in the U.S.
which I think will help us longer term to kind of keep the prices more manageable as well.
Got it thank you.
Touching on costs I know you’ve made a large initiative to take miles driven out of your network.
If we could touch on this a little bit how much have you taken out over the last few quarters and how much do you think is left to go? I think in total the numbers that Chris went through were numbers for the total year.
I don’t have the numbers right here in front of me.
So 11 million miles for last year 7% decline.
And we think we’ve only started to touch on the opportunities from a logistics perspective.
I think you should expect to see those kind of continue.
Also looking on those the relationship between volume decline and miles and gallons decline so we’re very focused on making sure that we’re taking out miles in excess of the rate of volume decline.
Given the decline in fuel costs and diesel how much of a tailwind was it in the quarter total logistics? We don’t break out the specifics on that but we’re making sure people are cautious on first some of the decline is passed back to customers through pricing so in some of our pricing algorithms fuel is included as a variable.
So while you’ll see lower fuel costs on the logistics line you’ll also see lower revenue offsetting that dollar for dollar for a portion of that fuel savings.
Then another portion we had hedged earlier in the year at rates that turned out to be above market ultimately so the amount of savings that falls to the bottom line from lower diesel cost is probably a little bit less than what some people have calculated in the past.
So if you look at it Eric in the fourth quarter we had a $4.5 million hedge loss and in the first quarter of this year we’ll still have a $3.6 million.
Okay great.
Then lastly on the guidance considering that we’re more than halfway through the quarter and Class 1 is set and volumes are largely expected we still have a range of $0.10.
What’s the reason for the large variability? Well I think it continues to be the variability that we see in the commodity markets.
I mean if you just look at the $2.45 drop that we saw from January to February we didn’t expect it to drop at those levels so we’re still seeing volatility well beyond what we would expect going forward so we maintained the same $0.10 that we always have.
Okay great.
I’ll pass it on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We do have time for one more question.
Our last question for today is going to come from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Sherri I wanted to congratulate you on joining us in our group here but dealing with people like me maybe it’s more of a condolence.
Either way welcome aboard! Thank you.
I realize--and this question is for anyone.
I realize everyone uses different services for this but the forecasts that we’re seeing are calling for either flattish or very slight increases in the Class 1 mover sequentially from here.
Is that generally in line with what you’re anticipating or is there something you’re seeing that maybe we should be aware of as we model? No I think as we look--and again Ken my ability to forecast milk lately has not been very good so take that with a grain of salt.
But what I’m seeing and what we’re seeing here is that through the first half of the year we expect it to be relatively benign.
I mean it’s going to start going up obviously from where it’s at now but we don’t see it being significant.
As we go through the remainder of the year your guess is as good as mine.
I’m going to guess yours is better than mine but we’ll see.
And then Chris I just wanted to clarify something.
Did you say that the quarter or the year suffered from a negative mix impact? I heard that about something but I wasn’t sure what it was referring to and it surprised me a little bit.
Was that in prepared or in Q&amp;A? I’m thinking prepared.
I’ll have to go back and look through.
I don’t remember mix shift.
I’ll follow up if I missed it but I was just surprised by that just given where we’re seeing some of the trends going with the business.
Just the opposite.
Yeah I’m not remembering saying it but we can go back and take a look and we can follow up later.
Yeah I’ll do that.
Thanks so much.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
At this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Gregg Tanner for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all again for joining us on the call this morning.
We appreciate your continued interest in Dean Foods and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.