(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Scott Levine from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
So it seems like the results resolve the amount of your expectations and broadly speaking not much change in the outlook for 2012 but as you indicated a little bit of work to do to get to the 2013 numbers.
Can you provide a little bit more color I guess with regard to the jump in the bids outstanding and whatever reflects in terms of maybe customers looking to proceed with projects or do you've seen any change in the mind set broadly speaking there? And then as a follow-up if I can get a little bit more color maybe on our relationship you see into 2013 between margins and either the magnitude of revenues or utilization rates that you would project and what should the relationship be one would think between margins and revenues as you look into next year? Alright Scott I’ll response to the first part of the question with respect to bids outstanding and Perry will handle the margins and utilization.
So Scott a little bit more color on the bids outstanding your question was maybe what’s on the minds of the customers.
I’d put it this way: we have a robust series of markets that we participate in globally.
In the three regions that we serve I would say the customers approaches to releasing work continues to accelerate with a few caveats.
The larger bid seem to have challenges associated with them and we have talked about several of those in the past and those seem to shift to the right or have been doing so at least in the past 12 months.
The growth in the bids outstanding I'm pleased to say is more balanced than it has been in the past with the addition of additional opportunities from the Atlantic region whereas the Middle East and Asia-Pacific have been kind of filling out the pie in the past several quarters.
I would say it’s a nice balance between what I would call conventional or more shallow water floating solutions and SURF.
In this particular quarter however the more conventional or traditional more shallow water work seems to be taking lead in terms of the overall carve up of the pie if you will but my overriding comment is that the customers are working with us they need our services we see high activity with tenders the bidding activity in the company in all three regions now is as high as its ever been because of those opportunities.
Perry you want to address the margins?  Yes of course.
Got about 2013 kind of revenues margins and activities I guess just to briefly reiterate Steve’s prepared comments on revenues.
We now have and have reported expectations that our backlog will produce about $1.5 billion of revenues for next year and we need to continue strong bookings and grow at 2013 revenues.
As it relates to margin expectations we are not ready to give any specific guidance around that although I’d make a couple of comments here to help you out a little bit.
One is that as we look at the backlog and as those projects are – the stage they are expected to be in 2013 it will largely depend on the margins in 2013 or will largely depend on the closeout change orders and harvesting of contingency that might take place in that year.
And as we see the maturity of the backlog at that time don’t expect to have significant dues coming to the margins from those type of activities.
Further and to your final question about activity fab yard activity looks to be fairly stable.
Steve reported we had a strong Q2 of 2012.
As we look into 2012 or into 2013 the fab activity looks good.
The marine activity Steve reported on Q2 was good at about the 60% range which is in line with where we were in Q1 but as we have been indicating what we know is happening was some of the vessels in terms of for example the transit of the 50 and 60 that was working on the Mexico project we expect that activity to be lower in the second half of 2012 as well as into 2013.
And because of the fixed cost on those major work barges that’s a drag on our margins for the second half of 2012 as well as into 2013.
Understood thank you and maybe as a quick follow-up somewhat related I think it indicated that a bigger portion of the bids outstanding is not associated with fixed price work and can anyone provide a little bit more color as to why that is and what changes in the contracting landscape of mix there and also little bit more color on the risk and margins associated with the indicated more conventional work within your bid funnel as opposed to more of the deepwater and SURF opportunities differences between the risk and the margin profile for the two categories if you will?  Yeah the first part of the question Scott with respect to the nature of the contracting methodology I wouldn’t read a great deal into the fact that we have less in terms of fixed price and the bids outstanding in any given quarter or greater in any given quarter.
I think it is just the particular trend in that given quarter.
I would say however that to the extent we can those portions of the projects that come to us that are not scope identified and we can’t nail down the scope we argue to try to get those move into a non fixed price mode.
So the statement I made have to do with the total dollar amount of fixed price meaning versus non fixed price.
It is not a trend in the industry I would close with.
Now as it relates to the nature of the work from the standpoint of conventional or shallow water versus SURF and margins expectations related to that.
My view of the world is this we should be paid for the work we do the risk that we take and the uniqueness of the service that we offer.
I would generally feel that we would have and continue to have solid earnings within our guidance range for conventional work and over the long-term expectations are that there would be some increase in margins for the more technical SURF subsea types of programs as we are seeing on some of the awards we’ve had recently in the Asia-Pacific region.
Understood.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
Good morning guys nice quarter.
Good morning Thanks Andy.
Steve or Perry I just want to follow-up on one of Scott’s questions and maybe add to it a little bit.
Perry you mentioned you were at 120% in your fab yards.
I mean I know you know this usually the way the EPCI contracts work right as you would then proceed into marine after that.
So what I'm having a hard time with is why would marine necessarily be down next year if you’re big in your fab yards this year assuming that you can book a little bit more work.
And then in conjunction with that you've got steel prices coming down here over the first six months of the year and as we all know procurement is a big portion of these contracts so wouldn't that help you as you go forward over the next six to 12 months? So Andy yeah I see your kind of logic flow on fab flowing into marine and it certainly does.
But again the marine portion of this is partly with our fleet and partly with contracted vessels but with respect to our fleet activity it still doesn’t provide full utilization of those major work barges in 2013 more in line with kind of what we're forecasting for 2012.
So we are still not seeing – but as Steve mentioned we are looking for book environment work as well so but we don’t we have that currently in the backlog.
One thing I would add to that Andy is not all of that utilization in fab yards currently as we reported the 120% of standards is EPCI work some of it is fab only so there isn’t a marine component that follows so that should be thought about and to reiterate the point that Perry made we don’t necessarily even if it’s an EPCI job have the marine assignment it could be chartered vessel or sub-contracted or directly contracted with the customer but having said that your thesis is generally right as regards material pricing and steel pricing I would say you are correct.
Steel pricing is coming down.
I think that is – that argues for lower fabrication pricing to our customers the customers should get that benefit and we should be able to mine some margin out of that over the future.
Okay thanks for that and then just focusing on the Atlantic division for a second.
I know you've talked about it going to profitability next year.
You are starting to ramp up in revenue and we are still not getting the fixed cost absorption so is it just timing and you have to put in cost before you sort of get the profit ahead of it I mean what’s going on there Steve? And when can we really expect some impact on that business with the rising revenue? Yeah the good news has already been stated.
We’re booking work here.
It takes SG&amp;A it takes investment to get that work so I would argue with the time with for you and with you on the timing thesis here we got to invest in order to grow the business and that’s simply what’s going on here.
If we weren’t getting the work and we were still spending money I would be a bit more concerned but I am pleased with the awards we’ve had the nature and the quality of those awards and the prospect for newer work on the horizon.
I would say to you that I am not as happy with the execution in that unit at the moment but we are working diligently to make sure that the execution is in line with McDermott standards everywhere else around the world.
Okay thanks for that Steve.
Thank you.
Hi good morning a couple questions.
One just a follow up on the margin question with regards to 2013 I guess the other thing that strikes me in terms of why margins.
Two questions on the margin front 2013 one Steve in your backlog right now are the presumed margins and sort of targeted 10% to 12% range? And my second question is if we look at sort of closeouts in the quarter they were abnormally low and below the long-term run rate and I feel like that's been a theme why is the level of closeouts still so low and it doesn’t sound like you are expecting to get any help in 2013 which surprises me? And then the last question we keep having this theme that the marine utilization is lower than we anticipated which – or is lower which is creating a drag on margins so I am just trying to balance that with your aggressive CapEx plans to increase the number of vessels that you have so at what point do you say okay maybe the work’s not coming and maybe we sort of hone in on the – we’ve reduced the level of CapEx spend that you are talking about? Thanks.
Thank you Jamie there is a lot in there and so I think Perry and I are both going to have to way in.
The first part of your question with respect to margins in backlog I would say you are right thinking that we endeavor to achieve margins and backlog at the guidance range.
I would add however though that the ultimate margins at the end of the day aren’t necessarily exactly related to the as bid condition.
But that’s what we endeavor to do.
Let me go to the back-end of the question on vessels utilization.
If vessel utilization over a longer period of time then we have experienced thus far continues to wane.
I would say you are exactly right on the CapEx side of the equation.
We don’t see that at the moment and in fact as indicated last quarter on this call we have intentions to be aggressive with the next new vessel in our fleet the DLV a deepwater pipe layer that I mentioned in my prepared comments and we will move forward with that.
My view of the utilization issue is more timing related than it is anything else.
Perry I’d have you comment about that in the market.
Yeah.
On that vessel utilization just to be explicit here Jamie the numbers that Steve quoted and I reiterated about the 60% so far this year relates to the major work barges.
Okay and that’s where the drag has been.
But where the investment is going is in the other deepwater construction support vessels that are shipshape vessels not barges and the utilization in that part of the fleet is closer to 100% okay.
So we’ve seen excellent experience with those vessels and we are forecasting likewise.
So in that also ties in on the barge side to Steve’s comments about our retirement plans with respect with some of those older barges so just want to make that the delineation between the barge utilization that we get a lot of talk about versus the others.
And then on the third part of your question the middle part on closeouts you are right that 2012 has seen lower than expected closeouts that’s what we expected that’s why we set the guidance last year that we did and so not surprising at all.
As we look at the backlog burn into next year and where those projects will be there is the potential for additional closeouts into 2013 some of it relates to change order some of it relates to closing out projects some of it relates to claims with customers.
So it’s early for us to comment on the contribution of that in the 2013 but the opportunity is there.
But besides timing is there anything performance wise that is making you – that would allow you to think that the dollar amount associated with the closeouts would be less than what we saw in 2012? I am just trying to figure out if there is anything performance wise that’s preventing us from getting from the closeouts increasing? Yeah the answer is no on the performance side.
There is nothing about the job executions that suggest to us that we’re going to have either lower closeouts in 2013 than we had at 2012.
I think you’re waiting to see if there is upside to 2012 closeouts.
And I guess my answer is that there is the potential but it’s yet too early to call that.
Okay.
And then last I guess Steve I would like to hear your thoughts just broadly on some of the recent there has been a lot of M&amp;A in the space we saw some stuff last week.
I would just like to sort of hear your thoughts out there on whether you think this is sort of a sign of more to come and are you surprised there hasn't been more of the international players looking to get into the market and on a flipside how you think about acquisitions for the company in terms of doing something larger or being on the other end of that transaction? Thanks.
Happy to do that Jamie.
With respect to the announced transactions probably reserve any comment related to those I know those that are been reported I know many of the executives in those and I’d say at least one of them is a significant undertaking that they’re pursuing I wish them well and beyond that I wouldn’t add anymore.
The question is is there more M&amp;A activity? Is this a trend? I think its really too early to say I don’t have enough information there is only one or two data points out there but I would say as regard to McDermott we understand our fiduciary duty here.
And are we a buyer or a seller? Frankly we could be on either side of a transaction we’re shareholder focused and none of us are tied to our offices here.
So in my view I don’t know that I see a trend but I do know that there are certain business combinations out there that we would be interested in that are transformational and some of them would be more niche types and we constantly look at those and we’re very disciplined about those opportunities either way.
And at each Board meeting on the strategic discussion we speak to those and not just a passing way.
We’re very significant discussion about all of the above.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Joe.
So my first question.
Steve thanks for providing some – back of the envelope calculations on the revenue for 2013.
I know that you are not expected to provide an estimate at this point but my question on if you were to run off $500 million to $600 million that you booked in the back half of this year I mean would that mean that you would have to book some of these large projects in the back half of this year and perhaps may be you can talk about the timing for those projects as you did mentioned they appear to continue slipping to the right.
Yeah be happy to do that Joe.
I would say where we sit today at the end of the second quarter and as I said in my prepared comments we’re not in a position to start guiding for next year.
There are a number of – an array of potential possibilities that still exist subject to a series of binary decisions by customers for projects that are in our bids outstanding.
I will also say that in my view this is not unusual for McDermott to be in this position and I would say that we don’t just have two quarters left to round out 2013.
There are a number of projects that are out there that we’re following that could be quicker burn than others.
There are as I mentioned a large project or two as you also mentioned that have slipped to the right and one in particular has been reported in the press as slipping so significantly to the right.
I would tell you that its one of the issues that we’re dealing with for 2013 to replace that revenue that would otherwise been burned in 2013 if we were so fortunate to receive the award.
There is simply nothing we can do about that other than to look at the alternatives and look at replacement revenue and we look at that in a number of different ways including replacement of those projects that we didn’t win replacement of revenue that slips to the right looking at what I would call quick hitting projects typically marine-only projects that would allow us to have quick burn of revenue.
So the management team is highly focused on all of those aspects and I invite a follow-up if I haven’t hit all of your points Joe.
No I think that’s helpful commentary Steve.
I had a question.
I'm a little perplexed by something.
I know there were no major issues that really occured this quarter and yet in the queue the amount of backlog that’s in a loss position has increased fairly materially call it 20% to 25%.
And so what’s happening there given that there won’t really any issues this quarter?  Well let’s just dispense with the two past loss projects.
The PEMEX project in Mexico as I indicated is completed and the Brazilian charter contracts they continue to perform well.
We did have a couple of smaller projects that move to a loss position in the quarter but I would characterize those as typical of the project profiles where it’s not uncommon for projects to fade in the early phases and recover later through change orders and contingency harvesting.
And it’s just another example of why we have lumpy quarters but there isn’t anything else in there that I would say is material to the increase in the loss projects value.
Perry would you add anything? That’s exactly right.
Okay.
And on the smaller projects if I am thinking about I guess I’m just trying to think about the margin trajectory and I know you guys have guided already to 2012 but as I start to think about 2013 could these projects then potentially impact 2013 because they are coming through at zero or is there a potential benefit that you see on the change orders I’m just trying to get my head around that? Yeah.
The additional it’s about $100 million I guess $90 million increase in the backlog for those projects as Steve referenced will burn in the second half of this year and early part of next year.
So but again the size of those is not significant to where it would make a significant movement in the margin.
But yeah it will roll-off in that period.
Yeah Joe if you look at the total amount we’ve sell over a half of the projects that are in loss position still relate to the Agile project and those revenues gets spread out over a five-year period and so the rest would be relatively de minimis to the total level of revenues.
Okay thanks.
And I guess one last question.
On the fab assets that you’re looking to divest can you maybe help provide a little bit more color on who the potential buyers are for those assets and if you have any other commentary on timing that would be really helpful? You said fab assets but we’re assuming that you marine assets That’s exactly what I meant I meant the marine assets.
Sorry guys.
Yeah and they are marine assets.
Look these are the two or three older or shall I say more mature vessels that do have both some functional and economic life in them.
Timing has to remain unknown because there simply isn’t a deal on the table today that we can speak to.
We have high interest on one or two of the vessels and it just remains to be seen and I’m not in a position to talk about who the buyers might be or talk about anything related to the transaction as we maybe in discussions today Joe.
Okay thanks.
I’ll get back in queue.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Will.
Can you talk about Papa Terra and progress there and whether or not you’re on track still maybe in early 2013 to hit 70% complete and start recognizing profit? Happy to do it Will.
I would say this it is a first quarter 2013 of that with respect to achieving 70% of course which is our procedure and our policy on for deferred profit recognition.
I see that we will achieve that level subject to what the customer wants to do and the customer has a number of parts associated with the Papa Terra project which could cause us to move into a different timeframe we’re talking with that customer at this juncture but there's nothing further that we can report other than we’re performing well we’ve had challenges with schedule we’ve had challenges with technology and those are resolved as they come forward.
This is a big complex TLP and I would say and this is from the customer’s mouth to our ears that we are performing as well if not better than any contractor doing this kind of work in Brazil today.
Okay great.
On Ichthys can you talk about the hiring of subsea engineers progress you're making what the market looks like for those employees right now and how? Is that having any negative impact on the margin and the region until you ramp that project up? Yeah it is tough to be absolutely honest with you it’s tough to find the right engineers at the right time we’ve done very well down in Perth Australia.
So I am pleased with our progress in ramping up with the kinds of the engineers and support people that we need we’re always seeking more we’re in a hiring mode is that having an impact on the project or the ultimate financials on the project I’d have to say at this juncture no.
We're monitoring it on a monthly basis through the head office here and the regional executives are looking at it I would say on a daily basis.
So there is nothing that I would say that has a negative long-term effect but it’s a battle everyday to get the right talent to these types of projects.
Okay.
And then lastly I guess when you look at where our consensus revenue is and you addressed in detail for next year very well with what your plan is and where you’re right now.
But as a bigger percentage of your bids out becomes smaller projects I guess can you talk about the internal process to review those bids and whether or not I guess at the division level some of your employees might be feeling pressure to book work or not? And how thorough the bid review is on the smaller projects given that that’s where we’ve seen the problems over the past few years in terms of execution? Yeah Joe I will speak to it from two sides here.
Will Excuse me.
Sorry Will I knew that… Okay.
Look in two sides here number one is that we have not adjusted our thresholds for reviewing projects in a manner which would distance management from those bids and in fact any bid at $40 million and greater comes through me and my management team to review and in my view that is a very low threshold or very low test for reviewing these projects.
Further any projects that have unique characteristics associated with them contract terms that are unique or potentially onerous financing pieces any of those kinds of things get a lot of visibility.
We spend a great deal of our time these days focusing on those projects and whether they are conventional or subsea or SURF our attention doesn’t wane.
So my view of the situation is that while we did have one sneak through the net in 2010 or 2011 today we endeavor to assure that that doesn’t happen and we focus on those projects nearly almost in different to what the dollar value is.
We are focused on the risk and bidding reviews or a risk management process in this company.
Okay.
And then lastly you have a few vessels obviously marked for sale assuming you can get the right price.
I’m just curious may be on if you can give a what the utilization was ex those vessels which I assume are largely underutilized at this point? They are in our forecast one of these particular vessels has been working recently.
I don't want to be more specific on that but as we look forward these are vessels that we don’t expect to provide any activity for ‘12 or ‘13.
Right but if you were to strip out the utilization of those from your forecast what would your if you change the denominator if you would.
What the utilization might look like company wise? Well we don’t have that math here with us right now it would depend upon a number of factors including which vessels were not part of the equation but suffice it to say these have tended of late to have been more of the under utilized vessels.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yes hi good morning.
I’m just curious as far as kind of the prospects that you have outlined as far as kind of utilization of the marine vessels the barges in particular would you say that there is a good portion of that coming from more interest in kind of marine only work has that picked up from the previous couple of quarters and maybe just give us some color around the dynamics of demand there? What I would say is we are pushing the utilization of our marine assets through our bidding practices.
And what I mean by that is it is a much better financial result to have the vessels working for perhaps a bit low margin than they have the vessels tied up at the dock Brian so you would find the management team doing the right thing on behalf of the shareholders seeking market opportunities for those vessels in any way that is reasonable in terms of return and risk.
So the characterization of the bids outstanding what I say there is a great deal of marine only that wasn’t there in prior quarters I wouldn’t claim that I would say that our sales force is very focused on the short term need to get the vessels working in 2012 and 2013.
Yeah and just curious about the comment about the insured value of the fleet I mean just kind of looking at the breakdown of your PP&amp;E does seem like that $1.2 billion probably vastly outstrips what you are carrying on the balance sheet.
I’m just curious how that valuation came about is that kind of a DCF of future cash flows based on utilization of your vessel fleet? Just trying to kind of tie those together? It is a price value principally whereas what you see on our books obviously depreciated costs so there is $1.2 billion depreciated cost on the books for the entire PP&amp;E not just the vessels but the price value that we’ve spoken about are the insured value is principally the price value? But you have a carrying value of that vessel fleet can you provide that or what it is as far as cost on the balance sheet at this point? We don’t have that broken out specifically I apologize for that Brian but if I were going to ballpark it I’d say by roughly half of the net PP&amp;E.
Got it.
And as far kind of the incremental bids that came out that have kind of added to your bids outstanding can you just give a little flavor as far as geographic dispersion of that where is the incremental demand kind of or the incremental opportunity started to kind of flow into your pipeline.
Let’s back into it I would say that in total bids outstanding is broken down about 70% Asia Pacific about 20% 22% Atlantic and 8% Middle East as we sit at the end of the quarter… The other way Steve Middle East….
Excuse me yeah Middle East is… 22.
22 and Atlantic is 8 I apologize.
I would say that the number of projects related to the type of work has moved more too conventional we’ve got about 65% of the bids outstanding are in conventional shallow water we still have a fair percentage in SURF and floaters.
The opportunities in the Atlantic are growing and the view I would say of the Middle East is largely around Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia was Saudi Aramco and in Asia Pacific it’s largely around additional work in Southeast Asia some in Australia to just give you a little bit more granularity.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Fair enough.
I can real quick make a quick comment we’ve got several more people in queue still and we would like to get to as many as possible if the remaining questioners can limit their questions to one a piece we’re willing to go another 15 20 minutes but would like to get to as many people as possible.
Good morning congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thanks Rob.
Thanks Rob.
Just a quick question.
Perry I know you discussed earlier the lower utilization on the large work barges.
Obviously will have an impact on margins which it has thus far this year in the second half of year but any reason that we shouldn’t be thinking at margins for the year should at least be more towards the high end of your range of 7% to 10% given that you’re averaging 10% due to first six months of this year and to get to the mid point you have to be looking at a pretty deep decline so I just want to kind of get your thoughts on that.
Yeah I mean just with respect to that one factor which is the major barge utilization we're expecting lower utilization in the second half of the year based on what we knows the schedule is for several of the vessels including the 50 transit in the 16 that was working on the Mexico project so that factor alone will have a dilutive effect to margins in the second half versus the first half.
And talk more broadly speaking and I see your math obviously in terms of where we are through the first half but given this lower barge utilization and a lack of significant opportunities to pick ups and claims in change orders in the second half is why we feel that we need to stick with the 7 to 10 for the second half.
Great and then my follow-up and I’ll get off just quickly Steve you’ve talked about in the past moving towards chartering vessels on the spot basis to improve utilization levels and marine days versus long-term contracts especially initially when the DD50 came out how is that strategy working and how should we thinking about that in the second half of the year.
We continue to exercise that option where it make sense and we do it on a regular basis around the globe strategies working well for us I wouldn’t consider it a major needle mover in the Company but it works very nicely for us as you think about timing of projects and availability of our own fleet.
Great thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you for taking my call.
I’ve just one question could you comment on any changes in competitive dynamics and your win grade as you look over the last two three months.
There seem to be a couple of new entrants of maneuvering within some of your competitors.
That’s all from me.
Thanks.
Yeah thanks Tahira.
In the past two three months I wouldn’t say with the projects that we have been competing for we’ve seen a material shift or change each one of these bids kind of stands on its own merits.
The bid slate is what the bid slate is and the same cast of characters if you will the same bidders tend to show up on most of these there is noting that I would report regionally that is unique in the Middle East Asia Pac or in Atlantic.
We are always concerned about some Korean bidders showing up on bidding list in the Middle East and in some cases of course in Asia Pacific.
But that has been a constant over the past several quarters and hasn’t changed in the last.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning thanks for taking my question Hi Rob.
Inc.</strong> I estimate about 339 unutilized barge days year-to-date.
Just wondering how much of that is related to the DB50 because it looks like with the Williams Partners announcement in the Petrobras work that's booked for 2013.
And then as a follow-up was there any other vessels that you are not looking at selling that are meaningful chunk of that.
Yeah I think your numbers are right I’m looking at the year-to-date at 60% which is at 2 000 barge days a 1 000 in the first half you’re about on target I think it closer to 400 days.
But no is the answer directly to your question of the underutilized days and excluding the 50 most of that would be related to vessels that we would be – we’re looking to move because there are three vessels and on a year you’re looking at 2 000 days in total so 250 on average so you get there.
And the DB50 as you heard us report is out of dry dock has finished some trials is just finishing up and she has been out of commission for about a year.
About a year and it’s still 90 day mode to get her back over to this side.
So that’s what we’re saying the second half of this year will suffer continue to suffer from that lack of utilization.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
I have other questions but I’ll just contact you offline.
Thank you.
Thank you Erin.
And thank you all again for participating today.
I know we had a few questioners who had to drop off there at the end so please if they were any unanswered questions don’t hesitate to follow up with me.
I also want to remind everyone that the call included forward-looking statements and I want to encourage you to see our SEC filings for more information on these.
And Erin we appreciate your assistance but this concludes our call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!