Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the McDermott International's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results for the second quarter 2013 which were released through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Although we will not speak directly to them during the call we have supplementary slides posted on our website which summarize the management actions and changes that we'll be discussing today.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of August 6 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended 2012 and the Form 10-Q for the 3 months ended June 30 2013 which provides a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that disclosure let me turn the call now over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and thank you all for joining us today.
As you read on our earnings announcement from yesterday McDermott reported a net loss for the second quarter 2013 of $149.4 million or $0.63 per diluted share.
These disappointing results were driven primarily by charges on 2 projects which we intend to cover in some detail on this call.
We have a large amount of material to discuss today as there are a number of changes initiatives and actions that we are taking to improve the operating performance of the company.
Following my review of the challenging projects and management's actions Perry will provide additional detail regarding our financials including financial guidance.
Let me begin with a discussion of the problem projects.
In the second quarter we increased our estimate to complete the Malaysian subsea project by $62 million.
The Malaysian subsea project is a deepwater rigid real pipe-in-pipe installation project using our recently constructed Lay Vessel 105.
Regretfully we have experienced a number of issues on this job.
We disclosed in Q4 last year that we believe we had underestimated the duration of the installation in the bid and increased our estimate of the cost to complete this project at that time.
In the second quarter delays from suppliers and a prolonged reconfiguration of the Lay Vessel 105 for rigid real pipelay further extended the installation schedule into the monsoon season.
In response we have changed our execution plan to install the pipe over 2 marine campaigns one in 2013 and one in 2014.
The Lay Vessel 105 completed its conversion in sea trials in July and we expect to start spooling pipe at our Batam Indonesia real base very soon so we would finally be underway.
Once we finish the first of 4 scheduled pipelay sequences which is expected to occur later in the third quarter we will have a better view of our cost to complete this project.
This was a significant bid miss and a learning experience for the organization.
And I'll discuss the direct measures that we are taking shortly.
In the Middle East we had further deterioration of $38 million on a project that also resulted in a reporting loss in the first quarter.
While the total project remains profitable and above our as-bid margins the deterioration was a result of poor project management especially around change conditions.
As a result we terminated the project management team in the second quarter and shifted the oversight to another one of our project leaders who has had -- who has recently completed a very successful project in order to bring this one in to successful completion.
We estimate the additional vessel mobilizations will be necessary to accommodate and extend offshore hookup campaign.
We are due to demobilize the main work vessel spread near the end of October ending the hookup phase and lowering the go-forward risk profile of the project significantly.
Other work is expected to continue into the first half of 2014.
Our experience on this project again highlights the importance of quality project leadership and the continual focus we must place as an organization on those individuals.
I'd like now to direct my comments to our management response to these issues.
To be sure we're engaged in a number of efforts to address the weaknesses that we have experienced in our operating performance.
I will outline 4 of these actions in greater detail and note that we intend to update our shareholders on the progress of the initiatives in future quarters.
As mentioned earlier supplementary slides are available on our website although we will not be speaking directly to them.
Management response #1 Atlantic segment restructuring.
Our Atlantic segment has had issues with chronic underutilization of our assets and productivity for several years stemming from lower activities in U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and customers moving to deeper waters.
We previously took measures to rightsize the operations and focus on projects that we thought matched our capabilities.
Those have resulted in minimal success.
After an extensive market analysis we don't have the confidence in our future ability to competitively bid all of our Atlantic segment assets with the proper level of return and risk coverage.
Therefore yesterday we announced a restructuring of our Atlantic division that includes the closure of our Morgan City fabrication yard and marine base.
The fabrication yard is to be closed after the completion of the facility's remaining projects expected in this year's fourth quarter.
And the marine base is to be closed after the expected completion of a project in 2014's second quarter.
In addition we've decided to close our engineering office in New Orleans and to reduce staffing across engineering support operations and management at our Houston and Brazil offices to reflect anticipated future needs.
We anticipate this restructuring to cost between $45 million to $60 million in the aggregate and have already recognized $15.5 million of these costs in the second quarter.
We expect the majority of the remaining costs to be expensed over the next 4 quarters.
Going forward we believe that our Altamira Mexico fabrication yard which enjoys a competitive cost structure and deepwater access provides a compelling solution to our customers in the Western Hemisphere.
As you know we have been investing in this yard over the past few years as a customer-paid work as justified including expansion that is ongoing today.
We will be moving various fabrication and marine base assets from Morgan City to Altamira.
Second management response project bidding and execution.
Fixed-price EPCI contracting demands careful bidding disciplined execution rigorous controls and forecasting and the ability to react and plan around in other words manage the inevitable volatility that characterizes large complex projects.
We have significantly underperformed as compared to our own expectations.
We've looked in the mirror and want to walk you through our findings and the actions we're taking to remedy our issues.
After evaluating our fundamental processes and procedures related to project execution we concluded that we possess the structure to succeed.
However we found that our processes and procedures were somewhat inconsistently applied throughout the organization and that management needs to improve adherence to our proven processes and procedures.
While we certainly believe we have many top-tier employees and project leaders at McDermott we have also realized that we currently don't have enough of it and we are taking remedial actions.
Before we get to our efforts we'd like to more precisely describe the positions we need to fill.
Two of the most critical roles in project leadership include the project manager and a project controls manager.
For those not familiar project controls managers schedule the activities; identify the risks as they evolve; develop planning and mitigation strategies; and estimate the cost of and the work necessary to complete the project.
Project controls managers report directly to the project manager who has overall responsibility for the project.
Given the importance of the 2 roles more experienced and more skilled personnel are now being recruited being trained and assigned to projects by our global operations management.
Our objective is to assign our best project leaders to the most impactful projects.
Now to the status of these efforts.
Our global operations management is actively recruiting project management talent for both the conventional and subsea markets.
We're aggressively seeking top project managers and project controls managers from within and outside the industry and have retained a search firm to assist us with this process.
This effort is in its early stages and we expect to significantly enhance project execution capabilities as we go forward.
There are significant benefits to having a deep roster of project leaders.
In many cases we can assign project leadership to manage the proposal the bidding and the estimation of the project with the goal of the same individuals executing the project if awarded.
We believe accountability is enhanced with our new project-based incentive compensation plans on selected projects.
Those project leaders are now compensated to a significant extent based upon their performance against as-bid conditions and expectations.
Furthermore portions of their incentive-based awards are withheld until the applicable projects are closed out.
Finally we're adding additional oversight on the execution of projects.
All projects over $100 million in anticipated contract revenues and all projects with significant first-of-a-kind elements require highly experienced executive project sponsors who will provide critical review of the project teams and drive accountability.
We are now requiring additional rigorous communications at all levels of the organization for project changes and there will be increased line-of-sight reporting and accountability to project managers.
Finally we're also increasing our application of risk coverage in our bids.
In summary for project execution we're taking comprehensive and sweeping action.
We'll be recruiting project talent aggressively; managing training assigning that talent to proposals and project execution compelling adherence to our processes; and ensuring project leaders are incentivized towards the right goals.
We expect these enhancements to project oversight will deliver improved and more predictable results.
Third management response.
Looking back to 2009 after significant analysis the management team decided to pursue a strategy of entering the subsea installation market.
We believe and still do today that there is a need for another top-tier player in the subsea sector and the market offers McDermott opportunities for growth scale and margin expansion.
Entry into this market requires substantial assets technical expertise and experience.
We are currently persevering through these barriers to entry.
Since our acquisition of our first subsea vessel in 2009 we have attempted to operate in this market on a geographic segment basis as an extension of our conventional business.
The technical challenges have proved formidable under this structure.
With additional subsea vessels under construction and scheduled for delivery within the next 2 years we are increasing our investment in the experienced leadership and engineering expertise that we need to succeed.
Earlier this year we acquired DeepSea a U.K.-based engineering group to provide a critical mass of subsea engineers to the company.
We've also established a subsea division led by seasoned industry veterans to maintain oversight and management of our subsea bidding project execution people and assets.
Specifically we've added 7 subsea leaders to date and expect an additional 4 to join us within the next 2 months.
We believe our investment in experienced personnel is already helping us to avoid additional learning mistakes.
We had our subsea division do a "cold eyes" review of the Malaysian subsea project and they have challenged the assumptions made to date and built a more competent execution plan.
The new group has validated the assumptions on the INPEX Ichthys project and is supporting its execution.
Finally we are leaning on the experience of this team to develop a plan to grow profitability in the subsea market.
Fourth management response market focus.
I've previously spoken about McDermott’s need for scale to better accommodate this project-by-project volatility that we see in this business.
I believe McDermott should grow in a controlled fashion and in markets where we can sustain a competitive advantage.
Accordingly we have launched an initiative to identify the markets and refine our participation to where we have sufficient scale expertise and relationships to deliver superior returns.
To be very clear we will not necessarily follow a market solely for its size or projected growth.
When evaluating our existing and our future markets we intend to examine our circumstances and answer the following questions: One do we have the scale to be a top competitor in the market? Two can we efficiently use our existing resources? Three do we have the necessary relationships with the right customers? Four does the contracting model fit with our strengths? Five do we have the technical expertise in the organization to mitigate learning mistakes? Six finally and most importantly can this market deliver the proper risk-adjusted return on the capital employed? This is an ongoing initiative which challenges each project each joint venture and each asset to meet the requirements necessary to answer the aforementioned questions affirmatively.
We have already discussed one example Morgan City that did not nor do we believe that all of our joint ventures meet these requirements.
With fewer better opportunities we can more confidently deliver execution and earn our right to expand in our target markets.
I'll now ask Perry to discuss the financial change initiatives and discuss the quarterly results in more detail.
Then I'll come back for some updates on selective active projects and some closing comments.
Perry? Thanks Steve.
In terms of the financial response management is also taking actions to maintain our conservative and disciplined financial policies and improve corporate liquidity and financial flexibility as we work through these challenging projects and cultural changes.
We've targeted certain G&amp;A reductions throughout the company including the elimination of the 2013 management bonuses in order to offset additional costs associated with increased bidding and hiring project managers.
As we look to a more focused and controlled growth we plan to defer certain capital expenditures that were previously forecast for 2013 and '14.
But as I will discuss in a moment we are not reducing our planned growth investment.
We are also working to improve our working capital management including collections from customers.
Finally we recently executed amendment to our credit facility to provide additional financial flexibility.
As we reported total revenues for the second quarter of 2013 were $647.2 million a decline of 27% from the second quarter 2012.
Compared to last year's quarter the revenue decrease was driven primarily by reduced activity in our Middle East and Asia Pacific segments as several significant jobs that were active in the quarter a year ago have since been completed.
With about $1.5 billion of remaining 2013 revenues expected to come from existing backlog we expect full year revenues of approximately $3 billion consistent with our previous guidance.
Primarily due to the challenging projects which Steve discussed gross profit in the 2013 second quarter declined by $206 million as compared to the 2012 second quarter to a loss of $76 million.
Essentially under the percentage-of-completion accounting rules we recognized in the second quarter the entire expected degradation of projects which are scheduled to be executed over multiple future quarters.
Although GAAP does not permit us to accrue the worst possible outcome we believe that we have recorded sufficient reserves to cover the remaining execution of these jobs.
Additionally there's opportunity to improve the outcome of these projects through the execution enhancements which Steve mentioned.
So although such upside is not bookable at June 30 we cannot [indiscernible] and we cannot promise or assure such the potential exist.
Those of you who followed the company for some time will recall that we have in the past experienced meaningful callback of losses in periods subsequent to loss recognition.
At June 30 2013 3 of the projects in our backlog were in a loss position.
The Agile charter contract in Brazil had no material effect on the second quarter's income has not deteriorated since 2011 and the vessel continues to perform as expected.
The second is the Malaysia subsea project which Steve discussed.
And the third is a relatively small fabrication project in Atlantic that's expected to complete in late 2013.
General and administrative expenses increased by about $5.1 million in the second quarter to $52.6 million as compared to the 2012 second quarter primarily due to increased bidding activity and was partially offset by the reversal of the management performance bonus accrual.
Going forward we expect our quarterly SG&amp;A to remain in this range.
The operating loss for the second quarter of 2013 totaled $149.5 million compared to $79.4 million of income from the comparable 2012 period.
We expect 2013 full year operating loss to be approximately $15 million to $20 million with the third quarter near breakeven or a slight loss.
We continue to expect the fourth quarter to make the most significant contribution because it includes our anticipated recognition of profit on Papa Terra.
Regarding 2014 we are currently expecting operating income in the 5% to 8% range with the understanding that a significant portion of the forecasted revenue projects remain in our bids outstanding so they have not yet been awarded to us.
To be clear the backlog profit has deteriorated in the second quarter to low-single digit operating margins.
Projects with backlog deterioration are on average about 1/3 complete which is not unusual for our business since there's often brightening toward the end of project -- of a project based on improved project execution change order negotiation contingency harvesting and commercial settlements.
So our 2014 profitability expectations are tempered by low margins in the backlog and just under half of our 2014 revenues remaining to be booked.
In the Other Income and Expense line we had an increase of $6.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to net foreign currency-related gains.
We strive to minimize foreign exchange impacts as a U.S.
dollar-reporting entity however as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency hedges and balances continues to be volatile due to movement between the spot and forward rates.
Our tax position in the second quarter of 2013 was $5.9 million.
We were unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the Atlantic segment but also in 0-tax jurisdictions such as the UAE and Malaysia and deemed profit jurisdictions such as Indonesia and Azerbaijan.
Accordingly we expect these factors to cause us to continue to incur tax costs even with consolidated losses or minimal profits with a specific rate dependent upon the jurisdictional mix and the extent of unbenefited losses.
The net loss after noncontrolling interest was $149.4 million for the second quarter of 2013 or $0.63 per diluted share compared to the $0.22 of earnings we reported in the 2012 second quarter.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $473 million of cash cash equivalents and investments down about $27 million from March 31.
However we improved our cash balance relative to the expectations that we discussed during the last call through an effective focus on working capital.
Going forward the forecast and announced capital growth initiatives -- investments will continue to be a significant use of cash for the next few years.
During the second quarter we invested $106.8 million in capital expenditures an increase of $22.9 million over the second quarter of the previous year.
The company's remaining major capital -- CapEx priorities include building out the Altamira yard as well construction of the LV108 and DLV2000 vessels.
We now expect full year maintenance CapEx and the ongoing growth capital investments to be in the range of $300 million to $350 million in both 2013 and 2014.
This is down from our initial plan of $400 million to $500 million for each of those 2 years.
Similar to our customer projects shipyard payments on the new build vessels are based on milestones so our CapEx will be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
We previously communicated our plan to sell older vessels so we are actively marketing the DB16 and KP1 which are classified as held for sale and as such they are no longer depreciated.
During the second quarter our debt position declined slightly to $95.6 million as we made quarterly principal payments on the North Ocean 102 loan facility which is now classified as a current liability since it matures in the first quarter of 2014.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Steve Johnson.
Thanks Perry.
I'd like to update you on a couple of active and important projects as I earlier indicated and then provide a brief on the business outlook.
With respect to the Papa Terra project in Brazil which Perry just indicated is material to our fourth quarter and year and which is our only project accounted for using deferred profit recognition we continue to target early fourth quarter 2013 for the commencement of the marine installation scope for our FloaTEC joint ventures contract and our related subcontract for the completion of the Full Field Development.
We have rescheduled the work program for the DB50 and are preparing to mobilize the vessel to Brazil later this month for an anticipated start to the installation campaign in early October.
Petrobras approved the project delay change order in the second quarter which is reflected in our backlog and believe we are aligned with our customer regarding the additional compensation to us for the re-sequencing of the DB50's project schedule.
We are still working with Petrobras to resolve other claims on this project however.
We often receive questions regarding our $2 billion contract with INPEX for the Ichthys subsea field development.
In the first of many quarterly updates as we move through the 36-month execution plan we are encouraged by the continued progress in the engineering phase and marine campaign planning.
Despite being only 3% complete from a financial-percentage-of-completion perspective we've been active on the engineering and procurement disciplines.
Engineering is now 2/3 complete including the conceptual and design development.
The remaining 1/3 comprises structural detailing of the subsea components which is similar to the traditional engineering work undertaken for standard jackets and topsides modules.
In addition as I mentioned earlier in my comments we have conducted several engineering reviews by our recently added subsea technical experts within our subsea division.
They have validated our design and basic assumptions regarding our estimates to complete which incorporate lessons learned from our Malaysian subsea project.
We expect to complete the engineering by the end of this year and we continue to feel confident about this project.
On the procurement and subcontracting side of the project we have contracted $1.2 billion of the $1.4 billion total procurement budget with the remaining related to bulk items and miscellaneous marine support.
Included in the subcontracted cost is approximately $750 million for Heerema Marine Contractors' installation of rigid pipelines subsea structures and mooring piles.
This subcontract is on a lump sum back-to-back basis for the prime contract where the risk of productivity and weather downtime during installation is borne by Heerema.
We have commenced fabrication on schedule in our Batam Indonesia yard and continue planning for McDermott's offshore campaign to install flexible flowlines umbilicals jumpers and associated tie-ins.
The water depth at the site is around 270 meters or about 900 feet with conditions similar to a subsea project with a successful marine campaign recently executed off the North West Shelf in Australia.
In addition our North Ocean 102 which performed much of the subsea scope on that project will install the flexible installations for Ichthys.
We expect to commence the offshore program in 2014 third quarter.
Now turning to our revenue pipeline.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end were $8.1 billion compared to $5.6 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the first quarter and $7 billion a year ago.
Our bidding and change order opportunities include 3 projects over $1 billion in value about 8 projects between $100 million and $1 billion and the remaining 45 or so below that level.
Included in our bids outstanding is approximately $2.7 billion relating to Chevron's large Indonesian project which has been reported in the trade journals recently.
While we acknowledge that we are the low bidder our price is well above the customer's project budget.
At this point it's uncertain whether the customer will decide to enter into negotiations with us or choose to cancel the bid and re-tender the work in the future.
In addition our list of target projects totals $9.7 billion as of June 30.
As a reminder "targets" are those projects that we intend to bid and are well suited for us and that we expect to reach award stage within the next 5 quarters.
As of June 30 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our revenue pipeline totals $22.8 billion.
Before I close I want to highlight that we have either added new leaders or expect to add new leaders in some operating functions this year related to project execution engineering marine and HSES which is safety-related.
We see these changes as positive for our company.
And as a final note I'd like to acknowledge Jack McCormick the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer who has announced his intention to retire later this fall.
I appreciate Jack's decade of service to McDermott and I wish him well in his retirement.
We have started the search for his successor which includes both internal and external candidates and we expect to have a smooth transition in operating leadership.
This has been a disappointing quarter and we are well aware of the challenge ahead as we execute the changes and initiatives throughout the company.
I want to assure you that we have the financial flexibility the customer relationships the operating strategy and more than ever the urgency to perform.
And with that operator we'll turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk about what was the difference and how you approached the charges this quarter on those couple of projects? Kind of what you reflected in that $62 million and the $38 million if that's perhaps really now worst case scenario? Or did I hear you say that you could still have to reassess your Malaysia costs again in Q3 after you spool the pipe? Yes Steve it's Perry.
Certainly as I mentioned we've recorded what we think are conservative estimates here.
GAAP doesn't allow us to record what you call the worse case theoretical possibility because it can't reasonably estimate that.
But we've recorded not only everything we can see but -- that we can reasonably estimate but in the case of that Malaysia job we had to start the marine campaign.
So there is a risk but as I mentioned there's also an opportunity to improve that project.
Likewise in regards to the Middle East project as Steve mentioned we've taken what we believe is the reserves that put us in a conservative position although not the worst case theoretically possible.
But likewise we're hopeful to build and not only complete that within the estimates but hopefully to improve it.
But there's less chance for improvement on the Middle East than there is on the Malaysia project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the 5% to 8% margin next year wonder if you could help kind of parse that out a little bit.
The margins already in backlog that you have I guess the $2 billion of work that's not loss generating -- I mean are they below that range or in that range? And what do you still expect for the margins that you have to book -- that you still have to book? And then I guess what are you assuming in terms of utilization? Yes.
Okay.
3 parts to that question.
On the backlog part as I mentioned the margins are kind of in the low-single digits.
And what we have not baked into that guidance is significant brightening of those margins as you know which is a possibility but that's what we have line-of-sight to in terms of what's in the backlog.
In terms of the bids outstanding and what we call prospective work we are expecting and particularly considering Steve's comments about the increased rigor in our bidding that we will obtain work at more of our traditional margins.
And then finally the third part of your question which was utilization and we're anticipating fab utilization about where it's been in 2013 and similarly the case for the marine vessels both the barges and the fast-transit vessels.
So we're not expecting a substantial improvement in either fabrication or marine utilization.
And that's -- those are the 3 elements to the guidance.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that.
I mean what's the reason you wouldn't assume any improvement in utilization? Is that just kind of caution and being conservative at this point as -- I mean you're still several months out? Or is that more a reflection of how you see the market? Well I'd say what we've assumed is what we certainly have line-of-sight to in terms of the backlog jobs that'll use the vessels in the yards.
We do have some prospective work in our forecasts so it's not just what we have on the books so to speak.
But at the same time we're not assuming a big uptick either.
So there's room if we could attract some book-and-burn work if you will during the year.
And you're right we're still several quarters away from 2014.
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Steve with all due respect I think most shareholders believe that many of the actions management has taken today should have been done a while ago.
So what can you say to investor to convince them that things still don't get worse from here? And how long would we have to wait for the results of these initiatives that you're putting in place today? Like when do you think we'll have all of these guys sort of operating and doing better for the company? That's a fair question Andy.
I would say this.
Many of the actions but not all do fall into the category of basic blocking and tackling if I can use that analog.
As I indicated in my prepared remarks we have the procedural discipline in place.
But we have had challenges recently in having our project teams adhere to those procedures and disciplines.
That's a management problem and a management issue.
So while they do seem in some cases rather basic that's the point.
They need to be basic so that they're clear that management needs to respond now and very quickly to compel performance against those procedures.
That'd be my initial response.
How quickly will these new people their new training and management fiat take over I would say it would be very quickly on backlog projects.
We've put these procedures and these new management initiatives in place and in effect now.
Now we can't do anything about the bid misses.
We have to deal with those straight up with our customers and with our shareholders as we liquidate the backlog.
But on new projects the rigor around estimating bidding making sure that we've got the proper risk coverage that we've got the proper margin in the bid is a day-by-day plan.
Lastly the subsea organization it's hard to probably tell from what I said in my comments but I have moved those people with specific technical expertise and managerial experience to oversee backlog projects that have a subsea component to them.
In many cases they have direct line-of-sight responsibility call it P&amp;L over those projects.
In other cases they are looking over the shoulder of the other P&amp;L entities.
So they are in place and in effect.
There's not enough of them yet but by the end of the year we feel we'll have the top line of that organization in place so that they can oversee these subsea programs.
I'll pause there and see if there's a follow-up Andy.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So Steve I mean I think we understand the subsea issues.
I mean it's first of a kind.
I think we understand that.
The thing that I'm having a hard time with though is that why is the rest of the business really falling apart now? Your COO was around for the last 10 years and you've had several years of decent performance over the last decade.
Yes you've had your issues but this seems like gaping holes in a lot of your businesses.
And so it just means that all of a sudden this is happening.
Is it more competition ratcheted up on you and the company was slow to respond? Or something else? I think it's 2 things.
To be fair there is an element of that that suggests that competition has ratcheted up in certain of our markets Andy including the Middle East and including Asia Pacific.
And while it is not our intention to follow them an undisciplined bidder if you will or an irrational bidder sometimes you find yourself in a situation where you make assumptions in the bid that you should not make and that's our management failing.
The bigger issue in my view is that we were not fully focused on managing the backlog with a full line of sight from the management from operations management of the company through the regional leaders and into the projects.
And many of the things that I'd talked about in my prepared comments create that line-of-sight visibility and compel performance to our procedures and places oversight on top of these programs.
That was not present in the company and I've changed that.
Research Division</strong> Has the business become so lumpy and volatile that you really need to find a partner? And if you did need to find a partner what can you do to make the business more attractive for that partner? I think settling down the performance Andy is the obvious answer.
We have got to have more predictability in the business and it starts with project execution.
And that starts with making sure we understand the scope of the facilities and the scope of services we have to provide and adequately pricing it in pricing the risk and getting paid for the risk.
So I think that's the answer.
We've got to settle it down.
The next question comes from Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifications.
One Steve can you just talk about the anticipated savings that you expect to generate from Morgan City and at what point you would expect that business to be profitable? Or any other additional actions that you can take? My second question relates to the guide.
Perry I just want to be clear when you talk about the $15 million to $20 million in losses what do you assume for -- does that exclude restructuring? Include restructuring? And then my last question is you talked about the I don't know $45 million to $60 million of restructuring costs.
You talked about hiring additional people across multiple levels of business.
One what is the incremental cost for hiring those people over the long term? How does that impact your fixed cost structure? And then my second question is what are the savings you expect to generate I guess from the restructuring actions? Jamie we'll take them in order and I'll answer the one you addressed to me first which is what are the projected savings from Morgan City.
I would broaden that and say -- I'll give you a response for projected savings for the Atlantic restructuring as you've heard which includes certain things we're doing in closing the New Orleans office and downsizing the Houston operations.
After restructuring charges we think the Atlantic can be breakeven by the end of next year or better over the long term certainly.
We were losing as you know about $10 million to $15 million a quarter before project losses.
So that's $40 million to $60 million a year more in operating income for the company.
And Jamie the other 2 questions on the 2013 operating income guidance of $15 million to $20 million yes that does consider the remaining restructuring charges that we expect to take in Q3 and Q4 and so that's already baked in there.
And the restructuring charge I just want to clarify my comments.
The reason we're having to take these over an extended period of time is we -- is GAAP won't let us all book them in the quarter where we make the decision.
We've got to expense them when we incur the cost in some cases.
Your second -- your third question was kind of with these additional costs that we're bringing into the business with respect to additional project management people what does our fixed-cost structure look like? And that's why I mentioned that our expectation is to take certain costs out of the business to offset the increment of those fixed costs.
So our G&amp;A guidance continues to be about where we were this second quarter.
So we're expecting to build and mitigate the incremental cost.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just Steve do you assume going forward that your win rate relative to history on projects goes down? And to some degree one because you're more stringent; but two because you're going to be in this transition period where you're adding different people to the business they're reviewing things differently so how do you think about that in terms of how do we think about your future? I mean it's good to be more disciplined I get that part but also there's another level of disruption with the changeup you're seeing internally.
Yes.
Well I actually do think it will in the short term go down and the reason is as you indicated.
If it doesn't go down in the short term I think we're not being faithful to the adjustments that we indicated.
But I don't see that over the long term.
Clearly we've got to get new people that are knowledgeable about the bids in place and in effect on all of these bids that are associated with subsea.
As we bring in new project execution personnel we want them involved in the bids.
I would say that would be tempered by a number of things the first of which would be our key competitors in EPCI have had their recent challenges and we're beginning to see different kind of and maybe more rational bidding.
So we're mindful of that.
I would say lastly that we're return-based focused and that is what's inside of all of these changes and execution plan alterations that we talked about.
So we're not chasing revenue in the short term.
We're not chasing revenue in the long term.
We're chasing income and that's what we're focused on.
The next question comes from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] Also I just wanted to understand when -- how soon your new management will take over the bidding process in that region? I wonder if you could repeat your question.
We apologize it sounds like you may have been on mute.
If I could ask you to restate? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Can you hear me now? Yes sir.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to get your level of confidence in your ability to compete in the subsea segment while maintaining your target margins.
And also how soon you think the new management team will take over the bidding process in that segment? The last one first.
The subsea management is now overseeing all bids that have significant subsea components to them.
And in fact recent bids the leadership of the subsea organization had done their review and led the reviews for the senior management of the company.
So they're in place doing that now.
So our ability to penetrate that market -- I think there's a timeline associated with this and I would say that we have backlog projects that are subsea-related and we want to execute those in accordance with the as-bid condition.
We have others that are coming up.
But we won't see I would say a real entry into subsea in a more material way than is portrayed by our backlog until the 2015 season.
It takes that time to be able to bid in those programs.
And in fact an example of that would be many of the 2014 programs have already been tendered and are underway and we didn't plan to bid those.
So I would say 2015 season would be the date that we would be in a position to claim our territory in subsea.
The next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] change and a couple of questions around that.
One do you guys have flexibility to break any of these vessel orders should you so need or desire at some point down the road and what the fee for a breakup would look like? And then secondly has anyone approached you guys just to sort of take over one of these vessels given the attractiveness probably of the delivery schedule that you have versus what you can get in the open market right now? Will this is Steve.
I think I got both questions and please follow-up if I didn't.
I think you were also on mute for the first phrase or 2.
But have we looked at canceling these vessels I think was one question; and then second was -- has anybody approached us.
Is that right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Anyone approached you on those specific vessels saying they're willing to pay a premium to get a delivery in 2015 versus going in the market and getting it in '16 or '17? Yes.
Well the Lay Vessel 108 and the DLV represent for us key assets needed to complete our subsea market execution capability.
I mean it's just axiomatic to me that we need those vessels to compete.
And therefore it's part of our long-term business plan.
We're also building that subsea division's leadership and technical capabilities to utilize these vessels.
As regards cancellation economically I would say where we are today both vessels are underway in the shipyards.
The right thing to do wouldn't be to cancel them and suffer cancellation charges.
Economically from a shareholder value standpoint it'd be better to complete the vessels and then seek to sell them when they're complete.
Having said that we have not had any approaches from others with respect to purchasing the vessels as they stand now in their development or at completion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Perry I was wondering if you could talk about -- I guess you see losses in the business and you wonder if there's risk of impairment on any of your assets at this point.
And the follow-up on that would be around how you guys value the equipment in your fab yards and whether or not there needs to be any reassessment of the Morgan City equipment.
Or does that just get moved to Brazil -- or excuse me to Mexico and continue to be carried at the same value and depreciate it from there? Yes Will that's true and we have assessed the assets in the Atlantic region.
And the charges in Q2 do reflect some impairments to the level that we expect we can realize either through relocation and redeployment principally in Altamira or through a sales process.
So we've already recorded in Q2 that adjustment.
More broadly if we make other business decisions like Steve referenced in other markets we'd have to evaluate that at that time.
But you're right and we've already done it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly when you have -- when you talk of having 2 campaigns for the 105 does that in any way alter the schedule for the 105? And anything else you may have been working on or bidding for that period? Well we have looked at all of our vessels holistically around the world.
And as it relates to the 105 we're in good enough shape.
We've got 102 available to us.
So no.
No other knock-on effects that we would report today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm going to squeeze one last one in.
On the credit agreement amendment can you just comment really quickly on whether or not that reflects your expectation for losses over the next few quarters or your expectation for a debt offering or both? Yes is the short answer.
We're in compliance.
We were but we wanted to create some headroom going forward as we did amendment.
And so it gives us the cushion that we think we need based on our forecast.
The next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> As I look at your stock today it's trading close to its tangible book value which could make it a very very interesting story going forward and I guess the key risks are really trying to get comfortable around Ichthys to a great extent.
So I know you've provided lots of details but would it be possible to provide a little more color? We know that the cost of Ichthys could be going up fairly notably as per recent reports.
And I just wanted to get comfortable that those are not going to trickle down to your sales.
We've read the same reports and talked to our customer about a number of the onshore elements of the program indicating cost increases.
So I would acknowledge that what you've heard is similar to what we have heard.
I would have to simply reiterate what I said in the prepared comments Tahira and we will update every quarter on this call with respect to Ichthys.
But our costs seem to be in line.
We have had the third-party cold eyes subsea people look at it.
Having said that we don't start the marine campaign until the second half of next year 2014.
So just like any of these marine campaigns there's a lot that is to be known or unknowable elements of the project until we get into the marine campaign.
But as regards materials labor subcontract we are virtually in line with the as-bid condition.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess the second question is a more tricky one.
If I look let's say year out from now and you're -- let's say you're struggling to the same extent and Ichthys does end up being an issue yet you would have divested some of your less profitable ships -- would be largely done to a great extent on the Morgan City restructuring and very well underway in terms of really getting those new ships onboard that would suggest what we estimate that your liquidation value would far exceed where you are right now.
Is there a sort of timeline the board has considered in which to continue to survive as an independent company after which you would explore other options? To the extent you can share.
Yes and I appreciate the questions and the sentiment behind it.
Look the board is supportive of management's plan management's business plan which we review with the board on an ongoing basis.
We speak to the topic of blending the company with others.
And where we stand today is the board is absolutely aligned with McDermott's management focus on pushing into the subsea market with caution with the appropriate assets and in fact as I would say behind where we are in spending capital deployed capital into these markets.
An upset condition in future years is not something that we take lightly and is why we are looking through third parties and new subsea people into the backlog projects most specifically Ichthys.
And I would say that there is more focus on the Ichthys project than ever was on the most recent first-of-a-kind project which was the Papa Terra project which we believe now is going to be a success for the company as we get through the fourth quarter.
We're more focused on Ichthys especially because of the results coming out of the Malaysia project and we simply are not going to yield on that focus.
The next question comes from Randy Bhatia from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones if you don't mind.
Just thinking about the new bidding rigor I guess the back drop of record bids outstanding today.
Can you kind of characterize how confident you are in that $8.1 billion and how much of those bids out today would meet the new bidding threshold that you guys have set for yourselves? One dimension I can -- well thank you for the question.
One dimension I can give you is that the bids and change orders outstandings kind of split up as follows: almost 60% of them are conventional.
They're not subsea.
We've got one project out there that we mentioned in the prepared comments that falls into the category of floating meaning it's got a significant hole associated with it and we would only do the topsides.
So that represents about 30%.
And subsea remains as just right around 10 or sub 10 in the bids outstanding.
So if you think about subsea being our newest market the bids and change orders outstanding have a natural de-risking to them because most of the work is stuff that we are -- have a long history of performing.
Now as regards to the backlog and the new bids that are coming forward that new rigor is in place.
We review bids every week all week long and the organization now has thresholds and minimums that they must meet in terms of project-assigned personnel.
They must be available.
They have thresholds in terms of risk coverage in terms of margin in terms of contract terms and conditions.
We thought it was pretty decent going forward.
It's much more strong and we are turning down certain bids until those thresholds are met.
And I'm open to a follow-up Randy if you have one.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I do.
I appreciate that color.
Just if you could speak specifically about the bid out on Gendalo with regards to your new thresholds and how confident you are in that bid as you've been reported as a low bidder there.
Yes.
I would say the fact that we are a low bidder is not only a function of our estimate and our cost of the facility.
It's also a function of the belief by other bidders about our viability as not necessarily an EPCI provider but our viability as an Indonesian entity.
And I won't go any further than that but you can read in the trade journals what the beliefs are about that.
We are still several hundred million dollars above the owner's estimate.
My expectation is the owner in this case Chevron with their partner will allow us to negotiate to close some of that gap.
They are going to have to close the most of that gap or likely this thing will have to go to re-tender.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just sneak one more in I'll appreciate that.
Can you just give us the details on the go-forward Morgan City lease terms? Yes.
Perry why don't you handle that? There are a number of leases there Randy and we've got timelines and plans associated with it.
Yes.
There's a -- on the main peninsula there Randy there's 10 leases.
All -- 9 of them go for 5 more years.
One of them on the largest space goes for 10 more years.
And to be clear that's one of the things I was referring to in answer to an earlier question is we can't record those lease termination costs until we stop performing work in that yard which is in future quarters.
And that's when we'll take some lease termination costs there.
Our expectation is once we stop using that facility we would -- likelihood to sublease or terminate the leases or some other avenue but in terms of the legal contractual 5 to 10 years.
Your next question comes from Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk maybe about your liquidity situation and how you see that going forward into next year given the charges on these projects and how that might impact your operating cash flow.
And then maybe talk about how you've taken down your CapEx guidance from the $400 million to $500 million previously annually to now the $300 million to $350 million.
And maybe also about what CapEx would be required in Altamira to bring it up to be competitive with the Kiewit yard.
Okay.
I'll start with that.
Liquidity I think we were pretty effective in June as I mentioned in managing working capital.
We're pleased with where the quarter end.
But based on the profile of these growth investments we do expect to spend a fair amount of that cash over the remainder of this year.
But as you know we have an undrawn revolving credit facility standing behind our cash.
We will continue to maintain a cash balance as a kind of a safety cushion.
You could see us borrowing under the credit facility.
But our forecast of not only the cash we have available in the credit facility but a very conservative estimate of our forecasted operating cash flows allows us to afford the CapEx investments that we have already made commitments to.
In terms of the reductions in those commitments we principally have cut back on our plans on some discretionary items around maintenance CapEx.
The total amount of our growth investment is not expected to change.
So most of the kind of management of the CapEx was related to that maintenance.
And then there's an opportunity on the growth ones as far as the timing over the next few years but that's just shifting around of timing; it doesn't change the total quantum.
So is that getting at the question Marty? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then Altamira? Oh yes.
As we mentioned and reiterated in our earlier comments we've been pacing that investment and we're now at around $100 million invested in that yard.
And we have ongoing approved further investments in the $20 million to $30 million range which will allow us to have the capability there to execute all the backlog projects.
Should we get additional work which is our expectation in our forecast then we will make further investments there.
And the extent of those will be timed and the quantum will be based upon the extent of customer commitment as we have been doing so far.
So we don't see it as a binary switch to turn on the additional investments in Altamira.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the language in your 10-Q about the amount left to spend on the 108 and the DLV2000 it remained at $650 million to $750 million in that range over the next 3 years.
How much is actually left to spend? Is that the right amount? No it's not.
I mean that's the total commitment.
The Q does disclose -- we can -- the IR guys can point you to the page where it discloses the amount of the expenditures so far -- I'm sorry the commitments at this point in time.
But I think on the balance sheet we have an order of $100 million in construction and progress.
Most of it relates to those 2 vessels.
And now I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steven Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you again for participating today and we invite you to join us on Tuesday November 5 2013 when we plan to review McDermott's third quarter results.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you and enjoy the rest of your day.