Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Deborah and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results from the third quarter of 2013 which were provided through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; David Dickson our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of November 5 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended 2012 and Form 10-Q for the 3 months ended September 30 2013 which provide a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that disclosure let me turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
To begin the call this morning I'm pleased to note that after a lengthy and exhaustive global search the Board of Directors has named David Dickson as McDermott's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David joined McDermott last Thursday.
As discussed in our press release last month I intend to retire at the end of the year and the Board of Directors intends to elect David as President and Chief Executive Officer by mid-December.
The board also intends to elect David as a Director at that time.
David's background includes over 23 years in the offshore oilfield engineering and construction business.
He was most recently the head of a multibillion American operations of one of our international competitors.
You'll hear from David later in the call.
Turning to the quarter McDermott reported a net loss for the third quarter 2013 of $64 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
These results were driven by both lower utilization and charges on certain projects.
I'll begin today by highlighting the status of our ongoing projects.
In the third quarter we experienced additional vessel-related issues on our deepwater pipeline project in Malaysia.
During the first of our 4 installation campaigns our Lay Vessel 105 experienced mechanical failure on a thruster and we identified additional configuration issues with the vessel's back-deck installation equipment.
The mechanical downtime required the vessel to suspend installation in the middle of our first campaign and traveled to Singapore for repair while our full marine spread was on hire which includes third-party vessels.
The issues with the vessel's back-deck equipment which includes the lay tower tensioning system resulted in lower-than-anticipated productivity.
We identified and resolved the root causes of these mechanical problems and believe the fix will be effective for the pipe-in-pipe work which is just commencing.
During the period I'm pleased to report that we reached a commercial agreement with our customer that mitigates monsoon season weather risk and waives liquidated damages subject to certain conditions.
As a result we now intend to maintain continuous operation in order to install the customer's production-critical elements in calendar 2013 but expected final completion in mid-2014.
In addition to the Lay Vessel 105 our new execution plan incorporates the use of our North Ocean 102 and our Emerald Sea.
In October we completed the first installation campaign and expect to commence the second installation campaign in a matter of days.
We've already completed loading the pipe on the Lay Vessel 105 for this second campaign.
Our experiences to date are reflected in our estimate to project completion which incorporates changes in duration assumptions on the remaining pipeline campaigns subcontractor productivity adjustments and additions to contingency and when combined with the commercial improvements I discussed earlier results in a net charge of $33 million for the quarter.
Moving to our contract with INPEX for the Ichthys subsea field development.
While only 5% complete overall from a financial percentage of completion standpoint there are many ongoing project activities.
Our new subsea division has continued their review of the project and its progress.
Detailed engineering is now 80% complete with design reviews completed for most of the subsea structures.
On the procurement and subcontracting side we have now committed 98% of the budget with the remaining related 2 bulk items and miscellaneous marine support items.
Included in the subcontracted cost is approximately $750 million for Heerema's installation of rigid pipelines subsea sea structures and mooring piles.
The subcontract is on a lump sum back-to-back basis for the prime contract and where the risk of productivity and weather downtime during installation is borne by Heerema.
We continue to work with our supply chain to ensure on-time and on-spec delivery of materials.
In the third quarter one of our suppliers completed production coding for lined pipe and another commenced manufacturing of the umbilicals for the project.
We're in the early stages of fabrication of the riser support structure in our Batam Indonesia fabrication yard and planning is ongoing for McDermott's offshore campaigns to install flexible flowlines umbilicals jumpers and associated tie-ins.
The first phase of our installation scope is expected to begin in the second half of next year with additional campaigns in 2015 and beyond.
McDermott's direct marine installation scope accounts for less than 20% of the anticipated project costs.
Now based upon our progress in the quarter and performance on critical project elements we believe that the INPEX Ichthys product will be completed on time and profitably.
Turning to the Middle East.
We're pleased to report that all of our projects in this segment contributed to gross profit during the quarter and none are in a loss position returning this segment to profitability.
The project in Saudi Arabia that was discussed last quarter has demobilized all of the major workboats as we wait for customer decisions on the onshore and power-on works.
We expect those to be completed during the first half of next year.
With this milestone we anticipate reduced operating risk for the balance of the project.
And as we have noted several times previously as estimated the project remains profitable and above the as-bid margin.
Turning to our Atlantic segment.
A loss in our Morgan -- a loss project in our Morgan City yard that we discussed last quarter has progressed fabrication ahead of our previous estimates and is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
However the fabrication project in Mexico experienced estimated cost increases related to scope growth and schedule extension resulting in a project loss of about $9 million.
While uncertain we believe that it may be possible to recover some of the project loss through future change order opportunities with this customer.
The DB50 is on site with all preparations completed in order to commence installation on the Papa Terra project in Brazil.
We expect installation to be completed in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter of next year.
Our expectation is to recognize most of the profit associated with this project in the fourth quarter this year.
On last quarter's earnings call we outlined the number of change initiatives to drive improvement in the company's performance.
With respect to our Atlantic restructuring effort we anticipate completion of the remaining fabrication projects at our Morgan City facility soon and expect to vacate that fabrication facility during the first quarter of next year.
In addition we plan to exit a joint venture in Brazil for the construction and integration of FPSO topsides.
Our actions to improve project execution and bidding we have made progress in all of our efforts to recruit new project leadership and have implemented many of the more rigorous oversight and accountability initiatives across the organization.
We have also increased margins and risk coverage on our recent bids and expect recently awarded projects to add to high-quality backlog.
With respect to our subsea division.
Most of the leadership for the division is now on board and that group continues to exert growing and positive influence in the organization both on new projects and existing subsea backlog projects.
Now before I turn the call over to Perry to discuss financials in depth it's my pleasure to introduce David Dickson to you.
David would you like to say a few words about your background and experience? So thank you Steve; and Steve thanks for the introduction.
So as a naval architect and subsea by trade I've been able to progress my career over the years into a strong business leadership which has been based on my passion for developing productive customer relationships and profitable project execution on a large scale.
I'm very excited and privileged to be back at McDermott after 15 years and looking forward to leading the organization in the future.
I see tremendous potential in the McDermott brand which represents a long history of dedicated employees and customer commitment in engineering and construction industry.
And in addition the company has got a strong balance sheet and experienced and dedicated workforce and is very well-positioned to take advantage of a great upstream oil and gas market.
And for me these trends are very much alive here in McDermott.
While the company's legacy is mostly firmly written in the shallow water side of the market a segment what I would refer to as offshore I see a very attractive -- I see very attractive and compelling opportunities for the company to make it into the subsea sector and in particular the deepwater.
I've only been on board a few days so very too early to speak explicitly about the changes that I plan to initiate.
But with my background and experience and the knowledge that I have with the insight and the context that will guide me will help me with my observations and to get to know the company's people facilities vessels and customers.
Lastly make no mistake I understand and welcome the challenge that the board gave me upon accepting this role in McDermott.
I hope you will sense my enthusiasm energy and commitment to make an impact on the company's operating culture and leveraging McDermott's strength to grow and attract talent and cut through to the business.
So to finish I'm very excited to be here.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Perry.
Thanks David.
As we reported total revenues for the third quarter 2013 were $687 million a decline of 33% from the third quarter of 2012.
The year revenue decrease was driven primarily by reduced activity on large jobs that were active in the quarter a year ago and since then completed.
We reported backlog of $4.6 billion of which 58% was subsea work as of September 30 with bookings during the quarter -- of the third quarter of $207 million.
In the fourth quarter early in the fourth quarter we have been notified of our selection for approximately $700 million of new work.
With about $800 million of remaining 2013 revenues expected to come from our existing backlog we expect the full year 2013 revenues of approximately $3 billion consistent with our prior guidance.
Due to lower utilization and project charges as Steve discussed gross profit in the third quarter declined by $138 million as compared to the 2012 third quarter.
Under the percentage-of-completion accounting rules we recognized in the third quarter the entire expected degradation of projects in a loss position which were scheduled to be executed over future quarters.
Although GAAP does not permit us to accrue the worst possible outcome we believe that we have recorded sufficient reserves to recover the remaining execution plans for these jobs.
As of September 30 4 of the projects in our backlog were in a loss position.
They are the fabrication projects in Morgan City and Altamira and the subsea project in Malaysia that Steve mentioned.
In addition the 5-year Agile charter contract in Brazil which remains in a loss position but has been operating as forecast over 1.5 years and thus had no material effect on the third quarter's income.
General and administrative expenses decreased by about $5 million in the third quarter to $46 million as compared to the 2012 third quarter as a result of restructuring efforts and lower bidding activity.
Restructuring charges for the third quarter were $4 million of which less than $1 million were cash charges.
To date we've expensed $19.5 million of restructuring charges.
Combined with the charges for management changes taking place in the 2013 fourth quarter our total charges are expected to be $55 million to $65 million.
We anticipate the majority of the remaining charges to be expensed over the next several quarters.
The operating loss for the third quarter of 2013 totaled $53 million compared to $82 million of income in the comparable 2012 quarter.
We expect the operating income in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $50 million to $80 million driven primarily by our expectations regarding profit recognition on the Papa Terra project.
So as we head into the end of the year we have a combination of strong bookings early in the fourth quarter improvements on challenging projects mentioned in prior periods work commencing on major projects in Brazil and Malaysia as well as commercial agreements in principle with certain customers.
Like last quarter though we continue to expect low-single-digit operating income margins on backlog projects.
However until David has time to assess the business we're not in a position to offer guidance for 2014.
In the other income expense line we had an increase of $4 million compared to the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to net foreign currency related gains.
We strive to minimize foreign currency impacts as the U.S.
dollar reporting entity.
However as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency hedges and balances continues to be volatile due to movement between the spot and forward rates.
Our tax provision in the third quarter of 2013 was $12 million.
We're unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the United States U.A.E.
and Malaysia.
Accordingly we expect these factors to cause us to incur tax costs even during periods with consolidated losses with the specific rates dependent upon the jurisdictional mix of profits and the extent of unbenefited losses.
So the net loss after noncontrolling interest was $64 million for the third quarter as Steve mentioned or $0.27 per diluted share which compared to income of $0.21 we reported in the third quarter of 2012.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $318 million of cash cash equivalents and investments down about $155 million at June 30.
In addition the company maintains its $950 million credit facility of which there were no borrowings outstanding at September 30 but $237 million of which was used for letters of credit.
This left $713 million available under the facility for borrowings and additional letters of credit issuance.
As outlined last quarter we continue to focus on managing our working capital as efficiently as possible and have implemented measures to prioritize G&amp;A spending.
During the third quarter we invested $81 million in capital expenditures an increase of $33 million over the third quarter prior year.
The company's remaining CapEx priorities include building out the Altamira yard in Mexico the construction of the LV108 and DLV2000 vessels as well as spool bases to support our subsea operations.
Similar to our customer projects shipyard payments on the new build vessels are based on milestones so our CapEx will be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
We also continue to market the DB16 and the KP1 which are classified as held for sale and as such they're no longer depreciated.
During the third quarter our debt position declined slightly to $94 million as we made quarterly principal payments on the North Ocean 102 loan facility which has $31 million remaining balance and matures in the first quarter of 2014.
I'll now turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Perry.
I'd like to wrap up our prepared comments and remarks with the review of our future project opportunities.
Turning to our revenue pipeline.
We've been quite active with bidding in the quarter as our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end grew to $9 billion compared to $8.1 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the second quarter and $7.1 billion a year ago.
Our bidding and change order opportunities include 2 projects over $1 billion in size about 13 projects between $100 million and $1 billion and 18 projects between $10 million and $100 million.
In addition our list of targeted projects totals $8.9 billion as of September 30.
As a reminder targeted projects are those that we intend to bid are well suited for us and that we expect to reach awards stage within the next 5 quarters.
37% of the value of our targeted projects relate to subsea work.
As of September 30 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding plus targeted projects or our revenue pipeline totals $22.5 billion.
Of the total revenue pipeline 27% accounts for subsea work.
With that amount of activity in our revenue pipeline and a healthy level of ongoing customer discussions I'm very optimistic about the trend of order intake and order flow.
The industry is still in the early innings of a drive into deeper waters offshore.
Not only are deeper water developments increasing but also advances in technology allow for more of the production infrastructure to be on the seabed floor.
Our customers' needs are getting more complex.
And I believe McDermott is positioned to be the next and one of only a few companies that will have the ability to address this market in a meaningful way.
On a final note before we turn the call over to your questions the company recently celebrated its 90th anniversary.
McDermott has a storied history of being on the leading edge of oil and gas infrastructure.
I believe the men and women of this company will continue that spirit for years to come and we all again welcome David Dickson to lead the company into this next era.
With that operator we'll turn the question -- or the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is in regards to Ichthys.
Could you talk a bit about North Ocean 102? I assume that's still the main ship you're looking to use.
Could you talk a bit about any drydock et cetera upgrades that might need to be done before you start your installation mid next year? And that ship as you pointed out performed pretty well in its prior installation.
So any kind of color on its schedule before it starts off so we can get an idea of really what condition the ship is going to be in as it starts installation that would be helpful.
Yes Tahira I think your question with respect to INPEX Ichthys program and you mentioned the 102.
The 105 is involved with a program in a more meaningful way.
Look the way we see that Ichthys program and as it is developing and with the use of both the 105 and the 102 on the Malaysian program that's ongoing now if I could say it this way we are debugging those vessels.
They are in my view going to be well understood.
The crews will be quite experienced by the time the Ichthys program begins although we've had our challenges not only with the crewing but also the back deck.
And as you heard me report in the prepared comments we lost the thruster on the 105.
I'm pretty confident that the 105 will be shaken out.
It will be able to perform the amount of work that she has to do; as well as the 102 I think will be well within the capabilities of those vessels.
The planning for Ichthys is as you might imagine ongoing now.
The bigger piece of the work in 2014 although McDermott has some work in 2014 the bigger piece of the work is with Heerema in 2014 as well.
So I'm happy to follow up if there's any further questions on that.
Research Division</strong> That actually is very helpful.
And the second question is Steve and David to the extent that you can comment at this point as you look out to the regions clearly Africa is one that's emerging.
But also it seems if you look at the plans for Petrobras they continue to be very aggressive going forward and present a good opportunity even though Petrobras can be considered one of the casual customers out there.
So in terms of regional expansions and strategy could you both talk about really the outlook going forward? What regions should we see you guys getting more scope in as you look forward? Tahira I'll begin and I'll be brief and then turn it over to David for his observations recognizing that while he's an industry veteran he's been with the company 4 days here and he deserves some time to think through strategies.
I would say as you mentioned Africa particularly West Africa but I would extend that to East Africa as well.
These are opportunities for what I would brand as the newer McDermott with our capabilities in subsea with our faster high-spec vessels.
So I would include that in a future strategy and I know David would agree.
Secondarily you mentioned Brazil.
You heard me say in the prepared comments that we are exiting a Brazilian joint venture for FPSO topsides fabrication and integration.
That should not single -- or signal I should say that we're abandoning Brazil by any stretch.
We simply couldn't make that joint venture materialize in the way that we had hoped.
We do have ongoing work as you know in Brazil with the Agile.
We're just beginning the Papa Terra project for the installation of the Tension Leg Platform.
So let me pause there and let David comment about those regions or any others you'd like David? Yes.
Tahira very good question.
And as Steve said with only being day number 4 also very difficult to make any definitive comment.
However what I would say is that as you know I've got extensive experience on working in Africa and in Brazil.
And clearly it is where McDermott is not significantly present or even in Africa not present.
And certainly as I develop or work with the strategy that some of it would be initiated here that these are things that will be definitely will be considered because clearly that is a significant large future in both West and East Africa.
And obviously Brazil will continue to be Brazil.
But that's something that I will address over the next couple of months.
I would simply add Tahira I just wouldn't want to leave out the North Sea as we think about growing the company into being a top-tier player in subsea.
Thank you.
And your next question is from the line of Jamie Cook of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One you did comment on the call that you won some awards in this quarter which was encouraging.
Given what we saw in the third quarter can you just talk about the bidding practices behind those projects sort of where they are and how we should think about the margin profile of these projects just given the execution issues that we've had? And then I guess my second question David while I won't ask you a question specifically about McDermott because that would be unfair given your experience I was wondering if you could address sort of your view of the capacity today in the subsea market? And given that growth trajectory that you see over the next several years do you think that there is a need for another player in the subsea industry? Thanks Jamie and good morning.
We'll take them in the order you asked them.
With respect to the newer awards we wish we could have announced those before the time of the call but as you know we're all in this industry subject to the timing and decisions and formalities of our customers.
But the numbers that Perry indicated in terms of new awards that we expect to have in the pocket so to speak are largely Middle East-type programs.
And they were subjected to our updated bidding regimes meaning that we pursued only those projects where we felt we had a competitive advantage.
We did not compete against irrational bidders.
We competed against rational bidders.
And both the margins and the contingencies in those programs are those and at the level that investors would expect for the long term or greater for McDermott.
And I'll pause there...
Research Division</strong> And I guess Steve before David answers the question just with regard -- I mean I guess the awards you got would suggest not but are you -- just given some of the changes that are going on with McDermott in terms of -- I don't need to go through them you know what they all are.
But are you seeing -- I mean do you think that's decreasing your win rate? Are you being more selective? I guess how are customers viewing McDermott just given some of the issues that are going on right now? Yes great question.
With our changes it's possible that the win rate could and -- could be having a decline.
We don't have a great deal of visibility into that yet just with a quarter under our belt of having made these changes because of the decision timing of those customers.
I can tell you the bids that have been submitted since the time we've made those changes we've been faithful to those bidding regimes.
Give us another quarter or 2 to see how those win rates play out to see if there's a material effect or if there is a longer-term effect.
My expectation is that because of others that we compete with going through their own strife that everybody is trying to improve their margins and lower their risks that it will not be a material effect in terms of win rate and it won't be protracted.
But on the other hand it will give us an opportunity for margin expansion and risk coverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then David sorry the second question? Yes Jamie I suppose my answer could be pretty quick in that obviously I wouldn't have joined McDermott if I didn't feel there was room for a new strong competitor in the subsea market.
Now saying that let's not forget that McDermott is also very strongly positioned in the offshore market which also has a significant future.
So the answer to the question yes I firmly believe that there is room for a competitor.
As I've said before McDermott has the right foundation for that in terms of a strong balance sheet.
It's got great people and it's already started the process in building and developing some strong assets.
And with all that with the brand over that and the history of the company as Steve said the company is 90 years old definitely there's room.
And I firmly believe that McDermott's going to create a really important part in the future in both offshore and subsea and in particular the deepwater.
Your next question is from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David welcome.
Steve good luck on your retirement.
Steve if I could ask you about the Malaysian job and just can you talk about your comments that you've contained the weather risk or you mitigated the weather risk and the customer is going to be more forgiving preparing the late delivery of penalties.
I'm just trying to figure out what these comments mean.
And you talked about that Lay Vessel 105 that you've been working out the kinks.
Like what are the chances that you worked out all the kinks for the Malaysian job or should we sort of expect the unexpected still over the next couple of quarters? As always Andy very good questions.
Okay let's start with the weather.
During the quarter as I reported in my comments we worked with our customer to help them realize their production needs for 2013 which is to say they had needs for first oil in 2013.
And the negotiations centered around some assistance that McDermott needed in order to limit the cost exposure on this project for going through 2013 and the early months -- and early weeks and months of the monsoon season.
So frankly the trade-off was to assist our customer with their needs.
And for us to be put in a position where both weather costs and liquidated damages for being beyond the contract date which we are for completion of the work would be on the table.
Both parties were successful.
It was a very comfortable mutual discussion between the 2 parties.
And what this means for weather is that for the most part not 100% but for the most part during the tendency of the monsoon seasons as of the third week in October the weather exposure is de minimis for McDermott as we complete the work which is a good thing.
That's not additional exposure that we wanted on behalf of our shareholders.
Now for the second -- and liquidated damages were extinguished and will not be applied subject to this agreement.
The kinks in the vessel as you called them the North Ocean or the Lay Vessel 105 look we frankly have a struggle with getting that vessel in a ready position through the bumps.
We missed some of the issues associated with the risks and underestimated some of the work scope on the project.
And with the 105 we've identified those risks.
We've priced those risks.
We've identified the underinvestment if you will and we priced those into the estimate of completion.
Then we started having a few challenges with the vessel.
And most recently in this quarter we lost a thruster had to have that replaced.
And we had some issues with the tensioner and appurtenances on the back deck of the equipment.
I have to tell you that the newer subsea individuals technical people in the company deserve a lot of credit for identifying the issues finding the root cause designing the remediation and the fixes for that vessel.
And I'm just comfortable as I can possibly be at this juncture recognizing that we have the second campaign beginning now that the vessel will perform and will perform well.
It is the nature of these things where new vessels that are going to work on these kinds of projects do have the occasional issues like this.
Do I -- and your last question was do I have comfort that we've in my parlance gotten it all? My point of view is is that every quarter we update the estimate to complete the project.
This estimate reflects our best estimate including all of the things that we can see under GAAP.
As you know Andy we can't create extra buffer or reserves but we do top up our contingency to be in alignment with the work that we see and we've done so.
So second campaign we'll see how she goes.
We should be starting on that in a matter of days.
Research Division</strong> Okay Steve that's helpful.
And maybe if I could shift gears and ask you about the Atlantic division.
You mentioned the loss on the PEMEX job at Altamira.
It just -- it doesn't exactly inspire confidence as we transition to Altamira.
Can you talk about the risk that you see in the new yard there in terms of labor visibility into estimated -- to being able to estimate contract profit at that site.
I know it's not that large a loss so I'm not overly worried about it.
But at the same time it's a new yard and I don't think that any of us want to see charges there.
Exactly so.
And I understand the comment.
Here's the root cause if you want to call it that related to that project for Altamira.
This is a project that because of design because of customer direction et cetera has experienced scope growth and related weight growth.
This is a big deck associated with this program.
And when you have scope and weight growth depending upon the root causes or the underlying reasons for that they can be placed into a claim or change order situation where the customer would adjudicate over whether or not those costs associated with that program were contributed to by their direction or by things that could not have been known at the time of the bid.
We feel we're in that space.
We intend to submit scope growth-related costs as change orders and may be able to bring this project back to breakeven.
So this is one of those programs where in the early days the profit picture might deteriorate.
But we're very hopeful because of the nature of the cost increases we'll be able to negotiate a fair settlement with the customer.
Having said that you asked about labor and productivity et cetera I'm more confident now than we were when we began that program that we know the rate in terms of the cost of labor.
We understand the productivity and we've dialed those in to the extent that we're aware of them.
So I feel like we've done the right thing by adjusting the estimate to complete on this project.
I believe we've got the right cost dialed in from a labor standpoint material standpoint and execution standpoint.
Now it's a matter of completing the work and ultimately settling with the customer on these change orders.
Research Division</strong> And Steve when you look at Altamira as a whole though do you feel comfortable with sort of what you're doing there now as you transition Altamira? Like this wasn't -- there are no other surprises with the transition over there so far? I would say this in this business as you know there are surprises.
I was just down there about 6 or 8 weeks ago and spent a full day with the team and with the overall facility.
This facility is laid out much more efficiently than our U.S.
Gulf Coast yard is.
That should lend itself to performance.
It has some newer assets there to perform the work.
It's a strong leadership team.
So all of those things contribute to my confidence.
Having said that in the future and as we've said before we do plan to continue the build-out of the Altamira facility to get additional real estate to get additional assets and appurtenances associated with it.
And we'll do that on a just-in-time basis.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> On Ichthys just trying to get a sense of the risks that you could take some more write-downs between now and when you hit the field in the second half of 2014.
So I guess what do you expect to learn over the next 6 to 8 months that might influence your cost position there? I know Steve you mentioned debugging the vessels now but what else is going on? I break the -- Steven thanks for the question.
I break the project down into its risk elements.
The first of which of course was as I talked about for a number of different quarters is the procurement.
And we bought out roughly 98% of the materials and the subcontracts.
So we know the price of those materials and subcontracts as against the budget.
And we're in good shape there.
So that's a significant piece of the overall size of the program.
The next risk is in the supply chain how we're able to manage the quality manufacturer delivery of those materials.
We're in the middle of that program now.
We've got some major activities going on.
And I would say so far so good.
I don't expect any upset conditions although on occasion they're in the manufacturing process you can find issues associated with materials that delay their delivery or engineered items that delay their performance.
So we're monitoring those very closely.
And where we find those issues we're dealing directly with our customer to try to resolve those.
The major issue remaining once we get through the planning phases for the marine campaign is certainly having to do with marine installation.
So marine installation begins second half of next year.
It's both us and Heerema.
That planning is ongoing.
There are some minor elements having to do with A in getting engineering done in getting pipe well procedures in place.
But those are all resolvable within the timeframe before we start the marine campaign.
But make no mistake the remaining risk on the project having gone through the engineering to 80% substantially bought out the materials and the subcontracts now rest with the remaining fabrication in Batam and elsewhere and the marine campaign Steve.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Steve best wishes.
And then David congratulations.
I'm just wondering if you could share what performance targets you have to hit in order to get your incentive compensation over the next couple of years? Steve obviously this is only day number 4 so very early to comment on that.
But maybe we could discuss that at the next call but too early to talk about it.
And your next question is from the line of Martin Malloy of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk maybe about the liquidity and some of the factors that might impact that over the next 2 years.
In the Q it said that there's $500 million to $600 million left to spend on the 2 new build vessels.
How should we think about the minimum amount of cash that you need to run daily operations the maintenance CapEx and what we can expect in terms of operating cash flow maybe as you look forward? Yes Marty it's Perry.
Thanks for the question.
A couple of things.
For the use of cash that we've been experiencing in 2013 it's as forecast which is for the investment programs.
Now we didn't forecast the project losses which used some cash but the majority of the use of cash including in this quarter is from the CapEx.
As we look forward we're pleased with the level of cash we ended the quarter with not only because it's in line with our expectation about the growth investments but also as I mentioned in my prepared comments about the working capital management.
So more specifically going forward we got to let David get his feet on the ground and evaluate our investment programs.
But after that we are in the middle of a continued investment in the DLV2000 and the 108 as well as finishing the Altamira yard.
I mentioned spool bases to support the subsea operations.
So we do anticipate being in a heavy -- continuing to be in a heavy CapEx period in '14 and '15.
And therefore we do not anticipate generating free cash flow in those periods.
As it relates to maintenance CapEx we have been running around BDNA around $75 million to $80 million a year.
We have some discretion over that.
So you recall last quarter I mentioned that as part of our financial strategies to respond to the operating challenges we have curtailed that a little bit not substantially.
But taking that down to kind of the mid-$50 million -- $50 million to $60 million range.
So we will continue to have maintenance CapEx but the big mover is on managing working capital with customers which is staying on top of collections and payments.
And then also the decisions we make with regards to our investment programs which are pending David's review.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Keppel made an announcement regarding a yard that they're going to invest $400 million in down in Altamira.
In the press release they've said that the yard would be able to fabricate topside modules and other offshore structures.
How does that impact your Altamira yard plans? Yes Marty this is Steve.
Good question.
That announcement was one that we knew and we're expecting.
The initial idea for Keppel as you can read in that article was for them to build in their base business to build holes and to build jackup or rigs for PEMEX.
As you know McDermott has a long-standing relationship with Keppel.
And we have ongoing discussions that we're not able to report on just yet that might have benefit for both McDermott and they as they endeavor to build their jackups and do a whole fabrication.
We're a topsides and integration-type company down there.
But with our relationship with Keppel there is a "1 plus 1 equals 3" solution here.
And I'll pause there until we're ready to talk about that further.
Your next question is from the line of Randy Bhatia of Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my big ones have been asked but I do have a couple of small questions.
Can you just give us an update on the status of the Gendalo project bid? Is that bid still valid and when might we hear something on that? Yes happy to do that Randy.
This is Steve.
Not a whole lot more that we can add to what has been in the public sector.
I would simply reiterate what is known publicly and that is according to the trade journals McDermott's bid was in excess of the owner's estimate as were the other 2 bidders' bids.
We can only explain our bid of course.
We can't explain or reconcile the much higher bids from the others.
I would say this to you though Chevron and their ultimate partner have a decision to make as they go forward as to whether or not how to negotiate or to decide that it is a failed bid because all bids are above the owner's estimate and they would go through a re-tender.
Qualitatively the important thing for our investors to know is is that I believe that McDermott because of its Batam fabrication facility our long-term presence in Indonesia our local content capability in our structure gives us a lot of confidence that what we did and how we're able to execute it would be the lowest cost and the highest quality solution.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one from me.
I think in the -- on the announcement of the management changes I noticed that it wasn't revealed who or when we might hear about who's going to take over as Chairman of the Board.
If you could give us any color on when that decision might be made on when we might hear about it that'd be helpful.
Yes happy to on that one.
And the easy answer is it's not yet determined Randy.
We recently completed a board meeting in advance of our earnings release and this call and that decision is pending.
And your next question is from the line of Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Welcome David.
I just had a couple of just quick questions.
I noticed in the Q that -- I think it was mentioned on the call as well that revenue or backlog in the loss position at $565 million.
That's up $190 million sequentially but Malaysia and Brazil went down.
You said there are 2 I guess Morgan City projects that are in the loss position as well.
But the step-up in loss revenue in the backlog just seems abnormally high.
Maybe you could touch on that? And secondly I know you don't want to give 2014 guidance but you did talk about margin range of 5% to 8% next year.
With such a large step-up in revenue that's going to be burned from backlog at 0 margin.
Does that change your view of next year's margin profile? So on the loss project -- Brian this is Perry -- first of all the addition of the Mexico projects we have 4 loss projects just to be clear.
We have one in Morgan City which would be the last job in the fab yard there finished up late this year.
We have the Agile contract in Brazil and we have the Malaysia contract.
Both of those -- all 3 of those are continuing from last quarter.
This quarter we added the PEMEX contract in Altamira Mexico.
And that is the reason for the increase there.
So the contract value of that Mexico contract PEMEX contract is larger than the delta that you pointed out.
But at the same we recognized revenue on some of the other loss projects during the quarter.
So that's the roll-forward if you will of the loss project.
As it relates to 2014 guidance that the only thing we can say is reiterate what we said last quarter about the backlog including low-single-digit operating income margin.
And again until David gets underneath the hood here we're just not in the position to give any further comment about 2014.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And secondly on CapEx plans.
So at the midpoint in the Q it's down about $150 million.
I know there was a range provided.
But it's down about $150 million and I think you condensed the spending to 2 years.
Previously you were saying 3 years.
Can you just touch on what has changed there and why? So the CapEx I think you're referring just to level set through 9 months we're at $225 million this year versus $179 million last year.
So we're actually up $45 million from last year.
What we discussed last quarter was I think you may be questioning relative to the guidance that we've given.
And that's not uncommon for us to push these out.
But if you recall last quarter when I talked about the financial actions that we can take we talked about G&amp;A cost we talked about working capital but we also talked about CapEx.
And so without reducing our long-term growth investments we have been working with shipyards and others to defer and manage those -- the progress payments.
So you're seeing a bit of that.
So we're not signaling any change in our long-term investment plan at this stage.
LLC</strong> And lastly if I could just sneak one last in.
The bids and change orders outstanding at $9 billion that did include the $700 million of projects won in early Q4? Yes.
Your next question is from the line of John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David welcome; and Steve all the best.
Thanks John.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on one point.
Just relative to the equipment comps that you've had and Steve you said that some of it is debugging issues on a lot of this.
How much of a risk do we run over the next couple of years with this big capital spending program and lot of equipment coming online that we continue to see those problems reoccur? Yes John this is Steve.
Fair question.
The experience that we've had on the 105 one could say it's axiomatic that if you've got similar vessels coming online you might have the same problems.
I would say this the centroid of the issues with the exception of a thruster going out here and there on some of our vessels which is not uncommon the centroid of our issues on the Lay Vessel 105 has to do with the gear on the back deck of the vessel.
And that whole kit if you will was supplied by one manufacturer one supplier.
And they are a multiple numbers of issues.
They are software-related issues for control and instrumentation.
They are mechanical issues.
They are interference issues.
They are tensioner types of issues.
All of which are resolvable.
And frankly all of which should have been identified during the manufacturing process and certainly during the testing process.
And we simply didn't get into those and discover those problems early enough before this project began.
So if that's the case then how can I give us some assurance about these additional new assets and our ability to predict and get these things performing? Number one the people that have helped us identify the problems and resolve the problems are on board on station today.
We've been hiring them since the early part of this year.
They're not only subsea experts in terms of project execution many of them are technical experts on board the vessels that have seen this equipment before and related equipment.
And they have helped us quickly identify these problems and resolve them.
Number two these same people are now engaged with in an oversight manner in direct oversight manner related to the new build of the Lay Vessel 108 as well as the new DLV2000.
So we've got the experts in place.
Lastly I would say that one of the mistakes we've made with the 105 was selling her into a project before we had enough lead time to get this vessel shaken out understood get the crew trained before we went to work.
We will not do that with the newer vessels on a going-forward basis.
And in fact we'll not be bidding those projects until we've completed in a very robust way that kind of work.
And John there's a whole lot of other detail underneath that with lessons learned from the 105 that will apply to the building of the new vessels to the configuration of those vessels to the startup of those vessels to the sea troughs and a whole host of other things.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate the color.
And one other thing if I could just -- and I'm sorry if I missed this but Papa Terra when -- where are we on that in terms of hitting the fourth quarter? Yes.
We gave a summary comment in the prepared remarks John.
It wasn't in too much depth.
We are on station now with the DB50.
And the support fleet is down there as well with all of the appurtenances all of the tendons all of the piles et cetera.
I've got an update during the call which indicates that if weather cooperates today we should be in installation mode sometime today in Brazil.
And it's an important milestone for us because not only will it help us start the continuous campaign subject to weather so that most of the financial returns or financial results will occur in the fourth quarter recognizing that some will flip over into 2014.
But if we start that process today we also will be in a position where weather downtime is not to McDermott's account.
So we're very anxious to get that started today.
But expect that we'll use the word most most of the income for the Papa Terra project will get turned on in the fourth quarter.
Perry do you want to add anything to that? No I think that's fine.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you Deborah.
Thank you for participating today.
Operator we'll just conclude our call.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.