Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Steven Oldham McDermott's Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good afternoon.
I'd like to remind you that we are recording this call and that a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our third quarter 2014 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We've also posted our presentation that will be available for a limited time on the Investor Relations section of our website that contains supplemental information on our operations and business outlook.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of November 5 2014.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and subsequent quarterly reports which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we continue to make good progress on the turnaround of McDermott and we're beginning to see that through our improved financial results.
It's fair to say that we've been able to get our operations under control and we believe that we have been able to meaningfully reduce operational volatility at the company.
At this point we have cemented many of the organizational structure changes and integrated key personnel that are critical to identifying and managing inherent risks in the industry.
I'll start this afternoon's call by highlighting a few of the operational highlights for the third quarter.
In March of this year we announced a transportation and installation contract for Brunei Shell Petroleum.
This contract marked our return to Brunei for the first time in more than 20 years.
The people at McDermott have been working hard to establish and reestablish strong relationships with our customers.
And today we have a growing relationship with Brunei Shell.
Just as important McDermott delivered for our client on that project with outstanding execution.
We planned appropriately had efficient and reliable offshore operations and an excellent safety performance.
We delivered the fill and store project with the quality that the McDermott brand represents with timely completion and handover to the client.
Overall the project was a technical commercial and financial success story.
In the third quarter we completed the high-profile Chevron-operated Jack St.
Malo project in roughly 7 000 feet of water.
It is one of the largest ongoing field developments in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
It involved the installation of complex umbilical systems and eventually tie-in of all the jumper spills which could cut wellheads and ultimately into the pipeline system which goes to the floating facility.
It is a significant technical achievement for McDermott and most importantly we believe we have a very satisfied customer.
I'm also pleased to report that we have reached a significant derisking milestone on the INPEX-operated Ichthys project the industry's largest subsea contract at its time of award.
Since awarded in January 2012 McDermott has completed the subsea engineering successfully managed suppliers on a large and complex procurement program and are fabricating hundreds of complex subsea structures eventually totaling over 28 000 tons of them in-house at our Batam Island fabrication yard.
We've recently completed a significant milestone the load-out of the foundation of the 9 400-ton riser support structure and commenced a marine campaign.
Heerema's Aegir vessel is on-site and have commenced the installation of the pipelines.
Today the Aegir commenced the operation of installing the riser support structure foundation.
It is in the water and ready to be positioned into its final location.
As a reference point for the whole field development layout the riser support structure was needed to be installed at the start of the campaign ahead of the cyclone season in Australia.
We expect to have McDermott vessels at the Ichthys field in 2015.
Our recently christened construction support vessel 108 is expected to be the first McDermott vessel on-site to provide marine construction support early next year.
As part of a changeover our customer has directed us to resequence some of our installation activities but we do not expect changes to our final completion date.
In summary we are making good progress and continue to believe that we will deliver the project successfully and profitably.
I'm also pleased to introduce a new member of our management team Stuart Spence our new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining McDermott in August Stuart was Vice President of Artificial Lift for Halliburton and has extensive operational and finance experience within the energy industry which includes fixed-price EPC experience.
I believe Stuart is a strong addition to the team as we build a tighter integration between finance operations and our strategy.
I will now turn the call over to Stuart to discuss our third quarter financial results.
After which I'll return and speak about our progress on booking profitable backlog.
Thanks David.
Good afternoon.
First let me state I'm very glad to be here.
And after 2 busy months on the job I can say that what attracted me to McDermott being the strength of the brand and the turnaround opportunity to lead the company back to profitability are both still very much intact.
I'm impressed by the depth of the McDermott organization and the customer-driven opportunities in the market yet also keenly aware of how much we still need to do.
With respect to the third quarter we progressed on our turnaround efforts in a number of important areas.
And overall we are seeing more stable execution outcomes.
Revenues for the quarter were $415 million down $61 million or 13% over the sequential quarter.
The Ichthys project revenue increased during the period but we had reduced activity in the Middle East region as we faced delayed offshore work awaiting access to customer sites and weather-related downtime.
As a result from our current backlog we expect to recognize more than $700 million in revenue in the fourth quarter 2014 and $2.8 billion in revenue next year.
The fourth quarter 2014 revenue expectation is heavily dependent on Heerema's installation progress on Ichthys.
The third quarter operating loss totaled $14 million and included gains on asset sales of $5 million and restructuring charges of approximately the same amount.
Following the completion of a subsea project in the Gulf of Mexico we are moving forward with vacating the marine base at the Morgan City yard.
This was the last operating section of the facility and we expect to idle the yard in the fourth quarter.
We made progress in the execution of our legacy projects.
In addition to operational improvements our commercial teams continue to settle change orders and to negotiate project closeouts with our customers.
Offsetting improvements in the quarter was deterioration on the PB-Litoral project for PEMEX which was already in a loss position as we increased the estimate of the cost to complete the project by $11 million due to a revised fabrication execution plan.
Taken as a whole there was no deterioration in our legacy loss project portfolio during the quarter which was the third quarter of achieving such a result.
Our subsea vessel utilization increased from the second quarter due to the Chevron Jack and St.
Malo project marine operations and the charter of the Lay Vessel 105 in Brazil.
Offshore vessel utilization decreased from the second quarter as several transportation and installation projects in Asia were completed early in the third quarter.
Fabrication throughput increased in the third quarter compared to the sequential quarter as activity increased on the Ichthys project and PEMEX PB-Litoral project.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $9 million this quarter versus $22 million in the second quarter reflecting the overall increased utilization.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Now that we have integrated the changes to our organization and regional management structure we are embarking on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
We have assigned a team of management supported by external experts to focus on bringing a step change in our overall cost structure and address our underabsorbed fixed costs.
Importantly we also expect to maintain the revenue potential and capacity potential of the company.
By looking internally to generate improved margins and to position McDermott to be a more flexible and responsive organization we are basing the program on an assumed level of work and expect to maintain the ability to flex program as needed to match the level of backlog and cost of demand for each region.
We are in the planning stage of this initiative.
We expect to finalize an execution plan by year-end and expect impact in 2015.
We will discuss our McDermott profitability initiative in greater detail on our next earnings call.
Overall a large portion of our backlog contains low gross margin projects.
As previously indicated until we book new profitable backlog our legacy projects will continue to weigh on our results.
In the fourth quarter and consistent with recent periods we expect another quarter of less volatile operations performance with sequential improvement in project execution and customer negotiations.
Net interest expense during the quarter totaled $12 million.
This includes $19 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $7 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
In the fourth quarter we expect roughly the same gross amounts and $9 million of capitalized interest for a net interest expense of approximately $10 million.
In 2015 we expect the CSV 108 will be placed into service and mobilized to Australia leaving only the DLV2000 to drive capitalized interest.
We expect gross interest expense of $73 million and capitalized interest of $28 million and net interest expense of $45 million for next year.
Our basic and diluted share count remains flat from last quarter due to the anti-dilutive effect of the TEU shares on reported loss.
Depending on the stock price we could include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $4 billion of which 39% related to our offshore operations and 61% related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the third quarter totaled $330 million driven primarily by change orders on existing projects.
On our last call the company discussed its aspirations to maintain its backlog position at the end of the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
We believe that the opportunity set for customer projects and potential contract awards remains robust.
While the opportunity pipeline remains and we believe that we are competitively positioned the timing of the awards is customer-driven.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end were $10.5 billion compared to $8.4 billion at the end of the second quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 80% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Both the current quarter and the previous periods' bid slate include a Chevron offshore project for 2 floating production units in Indonesia.
Our bid remains valid although the program plan is undergoing schedule change and the outlook is uncertain.
David will discuss this prospect further later in the call.
The increase in bids outstanding was a result of more than $3.2 billion in projects bid during the third quarter with few losses to competition.
More than 88% of our bids from the end of the second quarter remained outstanding at quarter end.
Our list of target projects totaled $12.5 billion as of September 30 2014.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid and we expect to be awarded in the marketplace in the next 5 quarters.
Again approximately 80% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
As of September 30 2014 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our revenue pipeline totaled $26.9 billion up from $22.3 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on our potential revenue pipeline in the presentation on our website.
Recent bidding activity remains active as customers continue to advance their projects.
Since the end of the third quarter we have bid over $500 million in projects in 5 different countries.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At September 30 2014 we reported $886 million in cash restricted cash and investments a reduction in total cash from the second quarter of $72 million driven by $62 million in capital expenditures and $4 million in debt amortization on our tangible equity units and term loan.
Restricted cash increased this quarter as we utilized a portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit which is currently more cost-effective than placing them under our revolving LC facility.
Operating cash flow decelerated during the quarter from $70 million outflow in the second quarter to $19 million in the third quarter as we continued our focus on working capital management.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
The $62 million of capital expenditures during the third quarter included $44 million related to payments for the shipyard delivery of the construction support vessel or CSV 108 and ongoing costs to construct the DLV2000 vessel.
The remaining amounts were driven primarily by various project-related requirements.
We estimate $335 million to $350 million remains left to spend on these 2 vessels and related equipment with approximately $100 million expected to be spent in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter 2014 spend is expected to be higher than we expected earlier in the year and is the result of an expected shipyard milestone completion a month earlier than originally forecast.
Overall the cost of the 2 vessels remains on time and budget.
We anticipate spending approximately $15 million to complete commitments on the other project-related items.
For 2015 we expect capital expenditures to complete the construction of the DLV2000 of approximately $235 million to $250 million.
Through our disciplined approach we expect to spend approximately $25 million to $50 million during the year on other maintenance and project-related expenditures a reduction from our prior expectations while maintaining the capabilities and reliability of our assets.
In addition as planned we are exercising our option to purchase 50% of our joint venture and all of our partner's equity in the North Ocean 102.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter for approximately $33 million of cash consideration.
Since we consolidate the joint venture we expect the buy out -- we expect the effect of the buyout to decrease the amount of our net income attributable to noncontrolling interests by a nominal amount in future quarters.
The disposal of our older and underutilized assets continues.
In the third quarter we sold the DB16 and we added thruster equipment to assets that we are now holding for sale.
To summarize we continue our journey and build on the steady improvement and execution while positioning ourselves for our share of the work that our customers are planning to award over the coming months.
During this call we presented you with more insight to our financial expectations.
And on our fourth quarter conference call we anticipate providing additional insight to our investors following the conclusion of our budgeting process and profitability improvement initiative planning.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Stuart.
As I mentioned earlier we made significant progress in the first 3 quarters of the year and we believe that our turnaround remains on track.
As we head toward the end of a significant year in the turnaround of McDermott we are focusing on continual improvement of our operations building profitable backlog and maintaining the flexibility to respond to customer demand and schedules.
Earlier in the call I spoke about our success on the Jack St.
Malo project and our good progress on the Ichthys project.
These are -- there are a few legacy projects that still remain most notably the PB-Litoral project in Mexico and we continue to address the challenges associated with this project.
This project still has approximately 1 year until our expected completion and we plan to continue our engagement with our client PEMEX to prevent further deterioration and seek improvement through a closer commercial dialogue.
Since the beginning of the year we have been able to reduce the number of loss projects in our backlog from 9 to 4 and we grow increasingly confident in our belief that the loss projects as a group will not deteriorate.
With our new organizational structure in place we'll continue -- we continue to build and add to our team to strengthen areas that need improvement.
As Stuart mentioned we'll also be working to make sure our organization is as lean efficient and flexible as possible with our McDermott profitability initiative.
We look forward to sharing details about that initiative on our next earnings call.
In terms of building profitable backlog oil prices have weakened considerably recently.
This has been a topic of concern for energy companies and investors alike.
Clearly this is leading to uncertainty in capital spending and timing of project sanctioning by our customers.
However I believe that with the diversity of our customers both in terms of national oil companies and international oil companies and geographic presence McDermott has the existing backlog and financial flexibility to withstand the volatility that is inherent in the energy industry.
As we look to our geographical markets we see some challenges ahead but also see many opportunities.
In the North Sea a new area for McDermott the market remains soft in both the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors.
However prospects for Africa remain robust and present an opportunity for McDermott.
In the Americas we continue to strengthen our relationship with PEMEX and look to improve our competitive position within the country by taking advantage of the proposed local content requirements.
Bidding activity with PEMEX is active and we look to build backlog in Mexico.
The Middle East a market dominated by national oil companies is our most robust region and bidding activity is at a high level.
Our customers in particular Saudi Aramco continue to invest in both greenfield and brownfield projects which are particularly well-suited for McDermott's capabilities.
Over the long term we have significant capital investment plans which are increasingly offshore.
We are also seeing an increase in activity in the UAE and in Qatar.
In Asia while we see a good level of bidding activity we've seen a number of administrative or political delays on some of the larger projects.
The Gendalo-Gehem development in Indonesia is an example of such.
We were selected by Chevron on this multi-billion offshore project in June and while we still have a valid bid outstanding most sources suggest a delay until 2015.
These types of delays are out of our control and we're doing the best we can to make sure that we have the flexibility to scale our business up or down quickly to accommodate changes to a customer demand or schedules.
We are in the depths of McDermott's turnaround and I believe we have the components necessary to make it a success.
We will continue focusing on improving our execution building profitable backlog and enhancing our flexibility to respond to a significant market opportunity.
Now with that I would like to open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the improving gross margins.
I guess first question clearly you're making some improvements in terms of execution.
I hate to nitpick but I guess first question is really in regards to the Middle East.
We are continuing to see a lot of noise over there in terms of execution and I would love to get some insight and color into really the improvements there going forward that make you comfortable around the execution issues on legacy projects improving.
And then with PB-Litoral earlier on you had mentioned that probably around the fall time frame you'd have a good idea of the benchmarks and standardization both through migrating some of your senior folks over there.
So I would love to get a sense why there's still a bit of sort of hesitancy around that area.
So I'll begin there and then I have a follow-up.
Okay Tahira.
Let me start firstly with Middle East.
So as you know and I've been saying this for a while is that one of the things that we have to work on in the Middle East is our relationship with the customer and getting closer to the customer understanding his needs.
A lot of the changes that have occurred have really been at the request of the customer as we look to resequence some of the activities offshore.
So in the Middle East we've worked on improving our relationship with the customer.
We've also made over the last 6 months some changes in our leadership and some of our team and starting to see some of the improvements or some of the effects of those improvements.
I feel that we have made significant advances with our relationship with Aramco and I look forward to that growing and getting stronger as we move forward.
On PB-Litoral what I would say is that -- and you're correct I said I would come back and address it in the fall.
So what we've been able to do is move people have other people within McDermott organization who have been in other parts get involved with the project.
We have added to the team.
We brought some people in to work on the team.
And that project is now essentially complete from an engineering perspective and procurement.
What we did was we rebaselined the project in terms of productivity because we're now really into the depths of the fabrication.
And the deterioration we're seeing in the quarter reflects the new productivity factors which I'm pleased to say that over the last 3 or 4 weeks as we look at our weekly progresses that we've been able to hit those productivity factors.
So starting to get a lot more confidence than we were getting within this project.
Research Division</strong> Awesome.
And I guess the next question is just on your announcement around the cost initiative in terms of really looking at a more flexible fixed cost structure.
Any -- I know it's too early and you're going to be finalizing the plan a little later on but any color on how material this could be as you look into the 2015 time frame plus would be helpful.
Okay.
So let me start with that and I'll let Stuart say a few words.
So in the 1 year that I've been here obviously we've gone through a planned process of how we address the issues and obviously a lot of my focus has been on the execution side.
We also had the refinance and obviously we're looking at how we build our backlog moving forward.
One of the things that I did want to get into this year obviously was looking at our fixed cost structure and obviously a look at how benchmarks against our peers in the factor that we are.
Stuart coming on board was the right time to really get that kicked off.
Stuart has a lot of knowledge and experience in this area.
So as you think about our turnaround plan and the various milestones that we've hit is that now was the right time to kick this initiative off.
And I'll hand it over to Stuart.
Thanks David.
Yes the initiative is just in the very early stages.
We have mobilized both our internal management team and external consulting help just in the last 3 weeks.
So we're going through a course of baselining the organization looking at all of the improvements that we can make and we will come up with a plan to endorse by year-end.
We are targeting all of the fixed costs base of the company but we're also looking at a lot of the variable costs of the company as well with an ambition of making McDermott as David has said a leaner more efficient more flexible organization.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So David your potential revenue pipeline is up to $26.9 billion as you said up from $22 billion last quarter.
But how much of this is McDermott just trying to cast a wider net versus high-quality prospects coming into the fold? I guess what's difficult is that the potential revenue pipeline has continued to improve and yet we haven't really seen the results in bookings.
And I know we're cognizant that you guys don't control the schedule but maybe you could talk about what you view as high-quality prospects versus how much is it that you guys are just being more aggressive in bidding.
I think Andy if you look at what we talked about let me address it in a couple of ways.
In terms of casting a wider net if you listened to what Stuart was saying is that a lot of our revenue pipeline is in the offshore business which I would say is the traditional.
I think we quoted something like 80% of our prospects.
So a lot of that is not casting in terms of the wider net.
We have had obviously projects which we're bidding on in the subsea business which maybe a year or so ago we wouldn't have been bidding on that.
So that obviously reflects some sort of increase.
The other point to highlight again which Stuart commented on is that this pipeline is increasing and as we quoted something like 88% of the bids outstanding we had in Q2 are still outstanding in Q3.
And there's not any -- I can't give any specific reason for that.
There's a multitude of reasons whether customers are extending validity [ph] customers are changing some of the scopes customers are adding addendum.
So it is very difficult to say why that is and that's why the timing at this moment is difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> One thing -- one follow-up there David.
You've been meeting with your top customers since you basically started.
At some point you get -- they get used to you you get used to them and that probably helps with getting these projects across the finish line.
Do you feel like you're getting closer to where just that sort of relationship base will help you get some of these projects forward? I think we have.
I think where we've gone in the last 12 months I think we've made significant progress but relationships are not just based on one meeting.
It takes regular meetings and it takes all that building relationships and in some cases looking to spend more time with those customers.
So I think we've made a lot of progress in that respect Andy.
And I think the way that we're structured and structured our strategic relationships organization I think we touched on it maybe the last call that as part of the reorganization we now have a team which is really focused on it -- which is really focusing on that area in terms -- just brings a new focus to the company on how we meet with a customer how often we meet with a customer and really what is in the agenda that we meet that we talk about when we meet.
So I think that we have made a lot of progress but it takes a bit of time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Stuart I know you've only been in the seat for a couple of months but you give a lot of guidance around cash flow and you're doing a good job of lowering your maintenance CapEx.
But obviously the spending on the DLV2000 is still quite high going forward.
Is there anything you could do to get either that spending down maybe delay it a bit or get your maintenance CapEx down further? And I'd ask the same question about working capital.
Again you're doing a good job there but what more can you do if anything? On specifically the DLV2000 we conducted a review of the CapEx buildout in the last 2 months.
So we have taken down the total cost marginally on that build but what remains is basically the final specification for the vessel that we think will make it a differentiating asset in the marketplace in 2016.
We have taken down some of our maintenance and project-related CapEx and we will be setting a very high hurdle for any of that projected spend to go ahead.
So it's a range Andy but we will be reviewing it every quarter with a view to making it lower.
Research Division</strong> And on the working capital side anything more that you think -- any low-hanging fruit there Stuart that you see? Yes.
So we've got -- we do have some initiatives ongoing around the working capital.
We are -- we're gaining more insight and oversight on working capital.
Some of it relates to the issues that David refers to around customer relationships and how we interface and work with our customer to provide them with the adequate documentation explanation and follow-through for them to get the development approvals in place to pay our receivables.
So we will be working harder on that front to try and generate a better result in the next few quarters.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned some of the oil price uncertainty but where within your $12.5 million of targets would you say there's more and less susceptibility of slippage due to lower oil prices? Very -- Steve very early to say but I mean obviously clearly what we're seeing which is in the public domain you see a bit of softening as I said earlier in places like North Sea and Norway.
That would be the main area.
But again we haven't -- that was a new strategic area for us when we set up a year ago.
But I would say at this stage -- as I said we have a large diversification between national oil companies the major independents the independents but also the -- we have quite a wide geographical diversification.
So it's difficult to pinpoint at this early stage where these -- where this is going to impact our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you have some EBITDA covenants in your debt agreements.
Can you just give us a sense of the confidence you have in being able to hit those targets? What do you think really has to happen to hit those incrementally in terms of booking? And are you at the point where you kind of have to think about contingency plans or you have pretty good confidence in being able to hit those? Yes I can state for the third quarter we are fully compliant with our debt covenants.
As we look to finalize our 2015 budget process obviously a large part of that is ensuring that we will be fully compliant with our debt covenants throughout 2015.
And today as we look forward we have a high level of confidence in meeting those targets and we are not actively engaging in contingent planning with our banks around those covenants.
Our next question comes from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> My question has been answered.
Our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> First of all David just wanted to get a -- you'd mentioned the resequencing on Ichthys and -- in terms of your installation phase.
Can you tell us where -- what state the 108 is in today and kind of the time window and how close that might be -- any reoutfitting that needs to go on specifically for the project and just kind of confidence level in having that ready to go early in '15? Yes in terms of 108 what I said earlier is that we're on schedule.
The vessel has already been christened.
It's having a crane installed as we speak in Norway.
So she is on schedule.
So we don't have any concerns from our side in terms of that vessel getting to Australia on time to continue the work on Ichthys.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just can you help us -- as a lot of what has been added to backlog is more or less your change orders rather than new orders when you go through the change order process is the pricing in that rigidly tied to original contract? Or can we view that more as new backlog that you might have some influence over the margins that would result out of that backlog? Probably a combination.
So some of it is extending some work which is obviously in the contract which is seen as options.
Obviously we have rates in our contract for any additional work.
But then we have some other change orders which obviously are not within the existing confines of the contract which will be priced on a different basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So net-net probably a little bit of a potential for uplift there? Potentially yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification on -- I guess there's legacy loss contracts and then there's legacy-legacy contracts.
As you've pointed out SeCaP Papa Terra the Caspian project and Jack St.
Malo are all those still -- do all those still have potential to be additive or we have kind of officially officially closed out some of those contracts at this point? We -- in some of them we are still doing final closure with the customer.
But in terms of that closure I don't see any of it having any material impact.
We really are down to the last few items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one if I may.
Is there anything in your bids outstanding derived from the North Sea today? I would have to come back to you on that.
I don't think so.
There's nothing major in there today.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Stuart actually can I just press a little bit harder on the EBITDA question that was asked earlier? So just going through the covenants and the requirements that are laid out I guess it's a little bit hard to do the calculation and triangulate where it is exactly but it does seem to be where you're eating into a $40 million contingency that has been allocated kind of beyond the EBITDA requirements that you need to hit.
Can you just tell us actually where you stand on the EBITDA generation or the cumulative year-to-date and how much of that $40 million cushion you have eroded already? Just so we can maybe gauge it and have more comfort that as you deliver results that we're not going to have to be dealing with that.
Yes sure.
So in the quarter we had planned to use a small element of that EBITDA cushion and we utilized a small element.
That still leaves the vast majority of the cushion available.
And in our current planning and looking going forward at the next few quarters we do not expect at this time to utilize any more of that cushion.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just touching -- I know you don't want to give too much on 2015 but do you anticipate what the revenue you have in the backlog today and the volumes you do have still set to burn can you be profitable on that or it will require a lot more volume to come in the door over the next couple of quarters to be profitable in '15? That's a little bit too early for us at the moment.
Obviously we do have a very detailed roll-off of our current backlog with a certain margin expectation and we are sequencing in the potential new awards going forward which would come out of our substantial revenue pipeline.
So I think we would ultimately defer on that question until the next quarter's earnings call when we're going to give more insight to our financial projections.
LLC</strong> Sure that's fair.
If I could sneak one last in.
Maybe just talk about the bidding how the pricing on those projects are and just with the recent downdraft in oil prices has that triggered some more competitive bids in the market? Any color on that would be helpful.
I would say too early to say from our side.
What I can confirm is we haven't changed our approach or our process to bidding.
And we're obviously -- the market is different no matter -- or wherever we go whether it's geography or which customer.
So -- but from our side we haven't changed our philosophy or our process.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
I just wanted to expand a little bit on the bidding question if you don't mind.
With the new bidding discipline that you've kind of enacted within the company have you seen much of a change in terms of McDermott's hit rate? I know historically it had been in 25% 30% -- in that ballpark.
I mean has that number variated much from those ranges given how you're now bidding on projects? Rob it would be difficult to comment on that I think.
What we said is that if you look at the bids outstanding that we have from Q2 to where we are in Q3 is that 88% of those bids are still outstanding.
So we don't really have a metric yet.
As I said these things are more driven by our customers' time.
And I mean once we start to see successes then we'll be able to look at a hit rate but at this time we just don't have enough information.
Okay that's fair.
And just quickly in terms of Altamira can you just give us a little bit of an overview of where we are there just in terms of further building out the facility how much additional capital we need and kind of what utilization rates in that facility you're currently running at? I will comment on -- I mean this facility as it stands at the moment is more than capable to execute the backlog that we have today and the bidding work that we have ongoing.
So we don't have any plans for any major expansions to the facility at this time.
I can't really quote on utilization.
I just don't have that data.
Okay.
And lastly just I know you all addressed this but on the DLV2000 in terms of the CapEx that's scheduled in next year I mean hypothetically again let's just assume a somewhat Draconian situation.
I mean what are your options there if you did decide to preserve capital to either delay that vessel -- I just want to understand what you could do in kind of worst-case scenario to not have to spend $230 million to $250 million? Well I think where we are with the DLV2000 is that we're fairly far advanced through the build.
You heard Stuart say that we're on track in that vessel to be ready and launch and to go to work towards the end of next year into early '16.
It also is an important asset as we look to the future of our company.
So at the moment our more focus is looking at the market and the prospects and the opportunities for this vessel.
So that's where we are at the moment as a company.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Steve Oldham for any closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Well thank you again for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming investor conferences.
And we hope you'll join us at our next conference call scheduled for March 2 2015.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.