Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews with McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Vitalie and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that today we are recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you could also find our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results press release and the Form 10-K that we filed today.
We also posted a presentation that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflects management's view as of March 2 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
Please note that except to the extent that is required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
From our results today you can see that we continue to make significant progress on our turnaround through improved execution our change in culture and a stronger financial foundation.
Our focus on customer relationships is beginning to pay off in the form of new awards including a recent award with Saudi Aramco for the Marjan field.
Well this is a project that was pushed to the right from last year to this year we've been working to align with the Aramco's needs through increased customer interaction minimizing impact to their production and continuing to provide support for their local economy their engineering center in Saudi Arabia.
This field EPCI project relates to subsequent development work to be done on an already developed reservoir and is what we term brownfield work and fits squarely with our integrated multidiscipline capabilities.
Now I'd like to take a step back to acknowledge that 2014 was a major turning point for the company.
I would like to remind you of the efforts we made on refinancing the company changing our organizational structure improving project execution and positioning ourselves to win new work.
With respect to our balance sheet early last year we raised more than $1 billion to refinance our company and improve our financial footing.
Our increased focus on cash management has demonstrated results over the course of the year.
Last year I put in place an organizational structure that puts a focus on our customers and our end-markets and removes various silos in the organization in order to leverage our global engineering procurement construction and installation resources.
We have put in place a structure that we believe can fully take advantage of our economies of scale and best practices for the greater good of the company.
In addition we launched our McDermott profitability initiative which we are now implementing.
Stuart will provide more details on this initiative later in the call.
We have a more customer-centric organization today that focuses on the needs and priorities of our customers.
I have personally traveled the globe on numerous occasions since I joined the McDermott management team to meet with our customers and understand the changing business landscape and some of others in our organization.
We are committed to supporting customers in meeting their broader goals whether managing costs minimizing production downtime or developing their local economies.
Of paramount importance to our future is project execution.
We've come a long way since this time last year and have completed a number of challenging first of a kind projects from the first rigid pipe-in-pipe installation project offshore Malaysia to the first tension leg platform offshore Brazil.
Let me give an update across our areas of operations.
In our Asia-Pacific segment our Ichthys project remains profitable and on schedule.
In November we hit a key milestone on our project with the installation of the riser support structure.
Our customer acknowledges our progress and we remain on track for the delivery of the remaining load-outs of fabricated components.
The Construction Support Vessel 108 was delivered to operations in February within budget and it is in Batam preparing for mobilization for its work scope on the Ichthys project as scheduled.
We've also made solid progress on our projects in the Middle East segment through working with our customers to address many of the previously discussed commercial issues.
In the Americas segment the PB-Litoral-A project in Mexico has progressed as planned.
We're seeing improvement in our levels of productivity at Altamira yard.
And we will keep focused on executing the remaining scope to our current cost estimate.
Furthermore our project team has developed some innovative solutions that have provided cost and time savings on the project.
We believe that we have this project on a good path and expect to complete it this year.
As we remain focused on continuous improvement in project execution we are also pursuing new business opportunities.
I believe we have the proper talent in the organization to be a leader in the industry and believe our customers are taking notice of our improvements in capability and performance.
Some of the early signs are encouraging.
We were successfully awarded a series of new contracts that are directly reflective of our efforts.
In the fourth quarter we were awarded a large three year brownfield pipeline installation contract for Brunei Shell Petroleum of which the first year or the 2015's work will be included in our 2014 year-end backlog.
We have also been awarded several contracts this year.
In Americas we were recently awarded a contract from PEMEX for shallow water transportation and installation of a jacket for the greenfield Ayatsil-A development.
This comes after the successful completion of an EPCI project for the Ayatsil-B development in 2014.
At the start of today's call I mentioned our recent brownfield EPCI award with Saudi Aramco where we refocused our efforts to continue to rebuild our client relationship.
We were also awarded a shallow water gas EPCI project for Qatar Petroleum for the North Field which marks one of the first projects awarded in Qatar in the past few years.
We expect that this is a part of the next wave of developments necessary to supply the feedstock for Qatar's major gas facilities.
As with all others in our industry we are currently focused on the macro environment and what it means to our clients.
Many exploration and production companies have announced plans to reduce their capital expenditures.
Our position in the E&amp;P CapEx cycle is generally late and typically represents a final significant capital expenditure before our customers see cash flow.
For those developments that are already sanctioned we expect many will continue to be bid and awarded.
There is a potential for some marginal projects at early stages to be delayed deferred or canceled.
As you look at our bids outstanding and targeted projects at December 31 2014 we believe that we are well positioned in many markets that we expect will have ongoing capital projects.
Additionally we believe we are more competitive today than we were last year from our improved execution and bidding processes.
Currently we see more opportunities in our offshore market than our subsea market.
So we expect to continue to focus on our traditional area of excellence offshore EPCI projects.
We expect the Middle East segment to be the greatest contributor to near-term order intake.
McDermott has significant opportunities with national oil companies which we believe are more likely to continue with field development projects in today's market.
As demonstrated by our most recent awards with Brunei Shell and Saudi Aramco there is a significant opportunity for brownfield projects.
Most of the projects we have bid on or are targeting our turn-key projects that use all parts of our integrated EPCI offering.
These fit with McDermott's strengths which is why we believe our capabilities place us amongst the best positioned in the industry for this macroeconomic environment.
We're off to a good start in 2015 with the two new awards we announced today.
While this is positive we're not taking our foot off the gas and will continue focus on those projects where McDermott has a differentiating capability.
With that I would like to turn over the call to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our fourth quarter and full-year financial results.
Then I will discuss our CapEx spend followed by our backlog and current bid pipeline then provide some more detailed information on the cost saving initiatives we mentioned during last quarter's conference call.
Finally I will discuss our guidance for full-year 2015 based on the current market conditions.
Starting with the fourth quarter as David mentioned we progressed on our turnaround efforts in a number of important areas.
And overall we are seeing more stable execution outcomes and initial success in order intake.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $806 million up $392 million or 95% over the sequential quarter and up $289 million from Q4 2013 revenues of $517 million.
Key drivers for the period were the start of the marine campaign at our large Ichthys project in Australia and the progress made on projects.
Installation progress at Ichthys continues to move forward with project completion expected on schedule.
Operating income totaled $25.9 million during the quarter and included $1.7 million of asset impairment and $6 million of restructuring expenses.
Our loss project portfolio contributed positively to gross profit during both the fourth quarter and for the full year 2014.
These are further signs that the corporate focus on bidding and execution during the past year is starting to make an impact.
Cash flow from operations was $119 million for the fourth quarter driven primarily by improvements in collections and achieving milestones on existing projects offset by decreases in accounts payable.
For the full year the company reported revenues of $2.3 billion compared to $2.7 billion for 2013.
The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by the completion of some larger projects during 2013 in the Middle East.
Our operating income for the year was $8.6 million in 2014 including $46.2 million of gains on asset sales and $18 million on restructuring expenses.
This compares to an operating loss for 2013 of $457 million which included $84.5 million of asset impairment and $35.7 million of restructuring expenses.
Cash flow from operations for 2014 was $7 million compared to a net use of cash of $256 million for the full year 2013 as we resolved many previously outstanding commercial issues with customers.
Net interest expense during the fourth quarter totaled $10.3 million.
This includes $19 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $8.3 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
As previously mentioned the CSV 108 will be placed into service shortly and will be mobilized to the Ichthys project in Australia.
As a result only the DLV2000 will drive capitalized interest during 2015.
Net interest expense during the full year 2014 totaled $61 million.
This includes $85 million of gross interest expense from the capitalization of $24 million of interest for our two vessels under construction during 2014.
We calculate asset utilization and days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards against the time in which it takes the company to allocate all direct operating expenses across our projects.
Our subsea vessel utilization increased from 56% in the third quarter to 98% in the fourth quarter due to the charters of the North Ocean 102 and Lay Vessel 105 in Brazil.
Overall the subsea fleet had a utilization rate in 2014 of 75% compared to 77% utilization in 2013.
Offshore vessel utilization increased substantially in the fourth quarter from the third quarter as we had installation activity in all three of our financial reporting segments.
For the full-year 2014 overall utilization of the offshore vessels was 86% compared to 70% for the full-year 2013.
Fabrication throughput decreased in the fourth quarter compared to the sequential quarter a significant work was completed in the early part of the fourth quarter 2014 and various Middle East projects moved to the installation phase.
However year-over-year fabrication throughput increased from 71% in 2013 to 80% for 2014.
Unobserved direct operating expenses totaled $15 million in the fourth quarter versus $9 million in the third quarter.
Despite the overall increased utilization as our more expensive assets were less utilized.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Unobserved direct operating costs were $40 million in 2014.
As a result of the positive net income during the fourth quarter our basic and diluted share counts increased to reflect the tangible equity units or TEUs dilution.
Weighted average common shares outstanding were approximately $284 million which included the potential issuance of $41 million shares related to the TEUs.
Fourth quarter net income was $8.2 million or $0.03 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million shares to 41 million shares to our basic and diluted share count numbers.
The net loss for the full year 2014 was $76 million or $0.32 per fully diluted share.
As the full-year 2014 ended in a net loss position there was no additional dilution on the annualized basis from the TEUs.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At December 31 2014 we reported $853 million in cash and restricted cash a reduction in total cash from the third quarter of approximately $30 million driven primarily by $119 million of cash flow from operations offset by $105 million capital expenditures a $33 million outflow due to a acquisition of our non-controlling interest of the North Ocean 102 joint venture and $9 million in debt repayment.
Restricted cash decreased this quarter as we utilized the lower portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $196 million and cash collateralize letters of credit totaled $89 million at year-end 2014.
In addition as mentioned earlier we exercised our option to purchase 50% of our joint venture and all of our partners' equity in the North Ocean 102.
The transaction closed in the fourth quarter for approximately $33 million of cash consideration.
Since we consolidated the joint venture we expect the effect of the buyout will decrease the amount of our net income attributable to non-controlling interest by a normal amount in the future quarters.
The $96 million of capital expenditures which excludes $8.3 million of capitalized interest during the fourth quarter included $83 million of costs for the shipyard delivery of the Construction Support Vessel or CSV 108 and ongoing costs to construct the DLV2000 vessel.
The remaining amounts were driven primarily by various project-related occurrence (20:20).
The fourth quarter 2014 spend was higher than we expected earlier in 2014 as a result of a shipyard milestone completion a month earlier than originally forecast.
During the full year 2014 we spent $208 million on these two vessels excluding capitalized interest.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.6 billion at year-end of which 43% related to our offshore operations and 57% related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the fourth quarter totaled $428 million driven primarily by a new order from Brunei Shell Petroleum and change orders on existing projects.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at year-end were $8.6 billion compared to $10.5 billion at the end of the third quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 69% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Please note that the Chevron Gendalo-Gehem project has shifted from bids outstanding to target projects due to the customer's decision to re-tender the project.
A list of target projects totaled $17.6 billion as of December 31 2014.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to us or a competitor in the next five quarters.
Again approximately 83% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
As of December 31 2014 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $29.8 billion up from $26.9 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown by project type region and work scope of these various items in the presentation on our website.
As I mentioned during our third quarter call at the end of 2014 we embarked on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to our overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
There is now a formulized plan in place called the McDermott profitability initiative otherwise known internally as MPI.
The three components of the plan include increased organizational efficiency through the rationalization of resources across the company.
The centralization of front and back office functions and operational cost initiatives that leverage McDermott's global scale and allow for the outsourcing of non-core activities.
As part of this initiative we anticipate up to 10% reduction in the overall salaried workforce by the end of 2015.
As a result the company anticipates annual cash savings in 2015 of approximately $50 million before restructuring costs of $25 million to $35 million during this year.
Starting in 2016 we expect an annualized cash saving of $100 million going forward.
Before I comment on 2015 guidance I just want to remind everyone on the call about the disclosure Darcey provided at the start of the call regarding forward-looking statements.
That disclaimer applies to all forward-looking statements David and I have already provided on this call and certainly applies to our statements regarding guidance.
For the year 2015 the company expects revenues to be in the range of $3.3 billion to $3.6 billion and operating income to be in the range of $25 million to $50 million which includes the expected restructuring costs and expected savings from our cost reduction plan.
We also expect the operating income to be slightly loaded towards the back end of the year due to some seasonality in the first quarter.
For the full year 2015 we expect gross interest expense of $72 million and capitalized interest of approximately $25 million and net interest expense of $45 million.
Of the expected $72 million in gross interest expense we expect $60 million of that to be in cash and the other $12 million to be amortization.
We also expect our taxes to be in the range of $35 million to $45 million for 2015.
With the CSV 108 recently completed our remaining capital expenditures to complete the vessels during 2015 are expected to be $254 million consistent with what we have previously guided the markets.
We expect to spend an additional $20 million to $40 million during the year on the other remaining maintenance and project-related expenditures while maintaining the capabilities and reliability of our assets.
The run rate for maintenance and other project-related expenditures should be sustainable going forward for the next couple of years.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $25 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Also we expect to have approximately $600 million to $650 million of cash and restricted cash and $865 million in debt at the end of 2015 assuming contracting terms and the industry norms on working capital remain stable.
Consistent with recent periods we expect stable operational performance throughout the year.
We also are continuing on our commitment to preserve our liquidity positioning through strong working capital management and the cost savings anticipated in our internal MPI plan.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Stuart.
As I mentioned earlier we made significant progress on our turnaround in 2014 and we believe we are aggressively working to continue those efforts to ensure the short- and the medium-term success of the company.
In addition I also believe that we must continue to develop McDermott's brand and technical capabilities to put us in a position of strength for the long term.
We recently announced new partnerships with two industry leaders that support our efforts to augment McDermott's client offerings one in early stage of projects and one for the large complex deepwater EPCI field developments.
In January we announced a venture between McDermott and GE Oil &amp; Gas using the name io oil &amp; gas consulting.
The objective of the venture is to participate in the front end of projects by providing consulting services to customers on concept selection and pre-FEED work.
What differentiates this from any of the consultancies in the market today is that io has access to resources at McDermott and GE Oil &amp; Gas which will provide realistic perspectives on constructability of designs schedule estimates and cost estimates.
When customers consult with io they can expect to receive advice that maximizes the efficiency of construction and installation while supporting their technical needs resulting in a lower and more predictable cost and schedule.
It is a win-win for our customers and for McDermott as when our customers have greater cost and schedule certainty we expect fewer delays in the final investment decision and EPCI contracting process.
In February we announced a new strategic marketing alliance with Petrofac for large EPCI SURF projects.
This agreement allows us to combine McDermott's well-established track record of delivering large EPCI SURF projects and our subsea engineering fabrication and installation capabilities with Petrofac's top tier JSD 6000 vessel which is scheduled to be commissioned in 2017.
The JSD 6000 will be a world-class industry-leading vessel with capabilities that will be able to compete on the most technically challenging deepwater projects.
It will be an ultra-heavy lift S-Lay and J-Lay vessel and will be able to efficiently lay large diameter pipe in ultra-deepwaters.
We believe that together we can be one of very few alliances that can address the largest and most complex ultra-deepwater subsea developments.
In many ways we expect that 2015 will be like 2014 a year of stability and transition.
We expect our operations to continue to improve but face the ongoing challenges of a lower oil price environment.
To help us deliver on this commitment with the current industry headwinds we will be proactively managing our cost structure and scaling our business to match our customer demand.
In addition we will continue to improve our relationships with our customers and leverage new and existing partnerships to develop a stronger set of solutions for our clients.
While it will take time and effort as we emerge from this turnaround I hope you share the same excitement as I do about the future of McDermott.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and congratulations nice quarter folks.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
David I guess the first question I have is if I look at your operating income outlook for 2015 and really compare it to the fourth quarter which is pretty strong seems to be at a lighter clip on a quarterly basis.
Would you talk a bit about your utilization aspects and mix for the year as we go through the year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes Tahira this is Stuart.
Just looking at 2015 we do expect some seasonality in the first quarter mainly coming from our Middle East and Asia segment.
And then also just looking at the work programs on various assets throughout the balance of the year there may be some small areas of underutilization as assets transit between contracts.
So it may be slightly higher than 2014.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it okay.
Thanks.
And Stuart I guess the second question is also aimed at you and spares David and that's to do with the free cash flow.
If I really look at your cash outlook for the end of the year back out CapEx and the interest expense on a cash basis it seems like you're expecting some free cash flow coming through the year.
We'd love to get a sense from you when we should at least expect an inflection in your free cash flow in 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So Tahira as you quite rightly say our cash flow excluding our CapEx should be positive in 2015 albeit with still the heavy investment we have to complete the vessels we won't achieve overall cash positive until later in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Good evening and congrats on a nice improvement on your results.
I guess just two questions just because I don't think the K is out yet.
So we don't really have a sense of what the profitability was by segment or revenues were by segment.
But I mean you showed nice progress was there anything unusual outside of what you talked about in the quarter I mean you talked about the restructuring charge the minor restructuring were there any like gains or project closeout that helps inflate profit? And I guess my second question is how do you think about profitability by segment.
Probably an unfair question but are there certain geographies you're making more progress on versus not.
I guess that would be helpful with regards to 2015.
Thanks.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
So just on the profitability by segment when you see the K you will notice that we were profitable for the quarter in both our Asia and Middle East segments and certainly unprofitable in our Americas segment.
Looking forward – well staying on the fourth quarter really a kind of an operational result in the fourth quarter.
No real dominance of project closeouts or negotiation numbers a real operationally driven number for the fourth quarter.
Looking forward to 2015 we would still expect a slightly higher profitability in our subsea segment over our offshore segment which is in-line with our historical trends.
Okay.
But any material change in profitability by geography? I'm assuming that's how you will continue to report things.
Do we still assume Asia-Pac and Middle East have better profits I mean relative to the Americas.
Just trying to get a sense of where profitability is being driven by for 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So if you look at our Asia segment still being driven predominantly by our Ichthys project.
Yeah.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Which remains both profitable and on time.
Our Middle East segment we have worked through a significant number of operational issues in 2014 and we would expect and hope that it remains profitable in 2015.
And our Americas segment we still work through business development expense for expanding that marketplace.
And we're working hard at cost structuring and other items to return it to profitability but we expect it would still be the lowest return of the three segments in 2015.
All right great.
Congrats.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Nice quarter.
Good afternoon Andy.
Inc.</span></strong> David so while your bids didn't change whereas outstandings decreased because of Gendalo-Gehem your targets and your potential revenue pipeline increased obviously some movement from Gendalo.
But how should we think about order intake each quarter in the current environment? I know you're going to have a good Q1 with the announcements today and I know you're not going to tell me a certain number.
I know it's lumpy but should we be thinking that you'd stabilize back to just sort of what the old McDermott was doing maybe $500 million to $1 billion in orders each quarter even with oil prices being low is that how we should think about it or is it going to be a more challenged than that? I think Andy first to get back to the start of the question.
I think if anything that we would take from this is that as I said during the call is that I think we'll start to see a little bit of the fruits from the work and develop some stronger relationships with our customers and how we look at our bidding processes plus some of the talent that we've added to the organization.
I think in this current macroeconomic environment I think the volatility will remain.
It's difficult to predict from quarter-to-quarter how things will go.
Our bidding activity still remains robust and at a reasonable level similar to that of last year but predictability of when customers will precede and sanction projects is very difficult to make any statement in this current environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just to be clear David because we don't have the 10-K.
When you – the $3.3 million to $3.6 million in revenue was higher than I saw it.
How much do you need to still book work or significant work in 2015 to sort of beat that (38:42) level or is that just excess ramping up pretty significantly with the couple of the awards that you won here recently? I'll pass that over to Stuart to answer them.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Andy when you see the K you will see that of the $3.6 billion in backlog we ended 2014 with we expect to roll off $3 billion in 2015 so it would obviously leave us $300 million to $600 million in revenues to achieve to meet our overall guidance for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And David if I could ask you one more on the CSV 108.
Maybe you could give us a little more color on that particular boat and its role on Ichthys in 2015.
I think in the past we've seen some startup issues from McDermott from time to time when McDermott rolls out a new vessel.
So maybe you can just talk about your preparation for the CSV 108 coming out and working on Ichthys? Well.
At this time Andy we don't have any concerns.
This vessel originally was going to have a rigid pipelay system on it which we changed that strategy well over a year ago.
So a lot of the equipment – a lot of the startup issues that's happened on McDermott vessels before have been primarily related to what you would say is a deck equipment.
So we don't have a lot of that on this a lot of the work that the 108 will do is very fairly standard a lot of it is lifting stone some spill pieces some subsea structures.
So it's more about lifting and a lot of that of ROV support driverless connection.
So the nature of the activity is somewhat different from something compared to maybe Siakap project which was a couple years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Great that's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Please proceed.
Great thanks.
Good afternoon.
David could you maybe characterize the flow of business in the Middle East in 2014 and how you expect that to trend in 2015 it's sort of hard to tell you how much of last year's sluggishness was your relationship rebuilding versus refocusing your bidding processes versus just the customers not making decisions in the overall market? Okay.
I mean I think the first thing to highlight is the fact that Saudi Aramco of which we have a long-term agreement did not award any contracts during 2014.
And primarily mainly as a result of Aramco executing quite a large backlog of projects which obviously we are part of that sort of our SURF and io projects and our other jacket projects we have with them.
So I think there was a large element of that.
Secondly I think that we have worked – we have worked hard to work a lot closer towards Aramco to fully understand their needs.
I touched on the call is how do we work closer with Aramco to help them execute some of these projects.
And in particular with most of them being brownfield activity which requires some element of production downtime et cetera.
So I think some of it is or most of it really is Aramco getting their projects in a row to release and let them.
And we announced obviously today the success on Marjan and hopefully we will see some more activity as we go into 2015.
Thanks.
And then how should we think about what this cost restructuring does to your breakeven and normalized margin targets? If I add the $100 million of the savings and the restructuring costs to your 2015 profit target it would give me around a 5% margin on your 2015 level of revenue.
So I'm just kind of wondering if that's the way we should start to think about sort of the normalized level for 2016 and maybe beyond if you're going to be in that sort of $3 billion to $4 billion of revenue range.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The 2015 savings from MPI are already kind of baked into our guidance and the way you're thinking about kind of looking at 2016 and overlaying it to 2015 is the right way to look at it.
I think another important part of overall profitability will generally be the macro environment as we look at competitive pressures in each of our markets in 2015.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
On the projects that you're looking to bid on in the Middle East or have bids outstanding can you maybe talk some more about your confidence in those projects moving forward? Is there a good portion of that that's brownfield or are they projects that are related to natural gas for the country's internal usage or to facilities onshore that are already built? And also the next LTA.
Can you talk about the status of that and where we are there? Okay.
So on Middle East if we look at Middle East and the various countries.
So we have bidding activity ongoing with – obviously with Aramco on what is a lot of brownfield activities some of it is greenfield but a significant element is brownfield.
We announced the award in Qatar.
We have seen an increased activity of bidding activity in Qatar and a lot of that relates to the next wave of gas developments and things in Qatar have been quiet for a period of time.
We also see bidding activity ongoing in the UAE with ADNOC ADMA which the work we're bidding there is primarily again brownfield.
So with a lot of the brownfield projects we see these moving ahead.
There are some other opportunities that are coming up but those are mainly with our national oil companies.
With regards to the LTA with Aramco I can confirm that we're currently bidding both on the existing LTA which has been with us for the last six or seven years and we have recently just submitted our bid for the new LTA which the customer is currently evaluating.
Okay.
And then with regards to the CapEx on the DLV 2000 will you be done with your CapEx on that vessel this year or will there still be some payments that will be due in 2016? We expect the vast majority of that CapEx to be complete this year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Two things.
First can you say how much of your backlog I know it's coming (46:22) is in the loss position at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Of the $3.6 billion there is approximately $400 million that is in a loss position and that $400 million is due to roll off $260 million in 2015 and $140 million in – sorry $260 million in 2015 and $140 million in 2016.
Right.
Thank you for that.
And then just in – I guess for David in terms of the bidding environment as we're getting into hopefully more stable oil prices at these levels can you talk a little bit about what your sense is of competitive reaction especially on bidding practices because I assume most of the work that you were recently awarded was bid a while ago.
And any sense there? Well.
I don't like to talk about what our competitor's doing.
What I can say is that in the current bidding environment our focus is really in areas where we think we have some differentiating capability.
So that's why we talk a lot about Middle East we talk about brownfield we talk about national oil companies.
It is where historically McDermott has been extremely successful and it is where we have the right people the right fabrication assets and the right installation assets to deliver.
At the same time we've got a large focus in Mexico we had an award earlier in the year.
We continue to develop a very strong relationship with PEMEX and we continue to develop our yard in Altamira which I was fortunate to visit last week which is a first-class facility and one which is going to be very competitive not only in the market in Mexico but in the international market.
So our focus is where we can differentiate ourselves in the areas where we feel we can compete.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer McDermott (sic) [BB&amp;T Capital Markets].
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon guys congratulations.
Thanks.
I wanted to follow-up on John's question.
Obviously with -and you mentioned with oil prices coming down obviously harder to know when customers are going to move forward on projects.
But what's your sense David for where the oil price needs to be for things to feel a little better? Well Adam firstly I am obviously not qualified to talk about oil price and obviously our customers are more focused on that.
As I said early in the last question our primary focus is where we feel that we can offer something to our customers that gives us in a competitive position.
We also talk quite frequently about our relationship that we have with the national oil companies in particular areas which are known to produce barrels of oil slightly less than some other parts of the world.
So that's where we have a lot of our focus and we'll continue there but it's certainly not for me to comment on oil price.
Okay.
And then on the cost cutting initiatives how much of that comes out of the SG&amp;A line? Stuart you want to? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The imitative is focused at all areas of cost within the company.
And there's a relatively small number coming out of SG&amp;A in 2015 with a high percentage in 2016.
But the majority of the saving in 2015 is coming from operating expense.
Okay.
And then lastly just Stuart can you repeat what you've said on the – on your expectations for the tax provision in 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We estimated between I think $35 million and $45 million of tax expense in 2015.
Okay.
What percentage of tax rate is that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The McDermott incurs a blend of corporation tax and also withholding tax and given our overall inverted structure and so we are at a higher level of profitability our effective tax rate we think is not reflective of our structure.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our Q&amp;A.
We will now turn the call back over to Ms.
Darcey Matthews for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Vitalie.
Thank you for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming investor conferences including the UBS One-on-One Engineering &amp; Construction Conference in New York on March 12 2015 the Howard Weil Energy Conference in New Orleans on March 24 and the BB&amp;T Commercial and Industrial's Conference in Florida on March 19.
We also hope you'll join us for our first quarter call 2015 on May 11 of this year.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.