Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to McDermott International's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jasmine and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we are recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our first quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We've also posted a supplemental slide presentation that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflects management's view as of today.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31 2015 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that to the – except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
During the first quarter of 2015 McDermott was awarded more new business than an entirety of 2014.
Despite a challenging macro environment we received several important contracts for our Middle East region a core strength for the company for more than 40 years as well as new awards in our newly defined areas of Americas Europe and Africa.
Our renewed focus on customer relationships is yielding results.
Some of our new awards include the following; in February we received our first contract in over 12 months from Saudi Aramco for the power supply system at the Marjan Field.
This EPCI project utilizes the full scope of McDermott's drastically integrated organization from engineering and procurement through to the fabrication and installation.
The work will be executed over a several year period in an already developed field and this what we term brownfield work.
Brownfield refers to the enhancement addition to and maintenance of producing fields and fits directly with McDermott's integrated capabilities.
Our ability to align our organization with Aramco's business objectives to their engineering center in Saudi Arabia has been an important component to McDermott being selected for this new award.
We believe it is also a direct reflection of the ongoing improvement of our relationship with Saudi Aramco.
Elsewhere in this region we received an award from Qatar Petroleum for a shallow water gas EPCI project in their Northfield which marks one of the first projects awarded by QP in the past several years.
We expect that this award is part of the next wave of developments planned in the region.
We were actively involved during the country's last infrastructure build up and we believe there should be additional opportunities to build a new work in this region.
Additionally we received an important EPCI contract amendment from the Al-Khafji Joint Operations Organization KJO for the Hout Field in the divided zone offshore Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
This new contract amendment reflects the work McDermott has done over the past year to refocus its efforts on our customers and their objectives.
We were originally awarded the contract for the Hout project in 2012.
By taking a collaborative approach we were able to realign ourselves with KJO and their plans for the field.
This award is a strong example of a customer success story and we are pleased to be working in the Hout Field.
Our new award includes one new platform and two bridges with a total weight of approximately 3 300 tons including significant modifications at the existing complex using the McDermott Saudi-based engineering teams our fabrication yard in Jebel Ali and our global fleet for the installation.
Our ability to control and execute on all aspects of the brownfield work from concept engineering through to the final installation was vital to receiving this award.
In our new Americas Europe and Africa area we were awarded a greenfield SURF project in Brazil from QGEP a new customer for our company.
This one shows the benefit of our relationship with GE oil and gas as we partner together effectively to provide our client with a strong technical solution.
The award of this contract highlights the company's strengthening position in the Brazilian market.
Following the successful completion of work for Chevron last fall in the Gulf of Mexico we were recently awarded a new contract in the Jack &amp; St.
Malo Field.
Last year we completed the transportation and installation of some of the industry's largest and most complex umbilical systems in 7 200 feet of water.
Our proven track record of safely installing subsea facilities in challenging deepwater environment was instrumental and McDermott being awarded this new opportunity.
Although McDermott has been able to win new business we remain aware of the global macro oil price environment and the challenges faced by our customers.
We are seeing future projects being differed as our customers evaluate their cash flow and project economics.
As a result we are actively engaging in detailed conversations with our clients to confirm their project scopes timing and objectives to ensure our solutions remain competitive.
This collaboration is critical to ensuring that we provide clients with cost-efficient and technically strong solutions by leveraging McDermott's vertical integration capabilities.
We are focused on the execution quality in our fabrication yards and up-time on our vessels for full utilization of our assets.
We believe the risk associated with our legacy loss projects are contained and believe the risks to further deterioration in our portfolio projects have been mitigated.
Overall the project improvements are also a direct reflection of the active and ongoing dialogue with our customers.
In many instances we are able to negotiate change orders and successfully close our projects more effectively.
Now I'll provide a quick update on some of our areas of operations for our existing projects.
In our Americas Europe and Africa area the PB-Litoral-A project in Mexico continues to progress on track.
The project execution is proceeding well and we believe the risks associated with any further slippage continue to be contained.
Supporting the execution of this project we are seeking productivity improvements at the Altamira yard where we remain focused on executing the outstanding scope to our current cost estimate.
We expect the structure to be completed for sale away during the third quarter of this year.
Also in the first quarter the yard successfully completed its first export contract of a seven-storied living quarter structure for a project in West Africa Offshore-Angola.
In our Middle East area as we exit the first quarter high-wind season our vessels are working and the fabrication yards are busy.
We are executing on existing projects for Saudi Aramco and ADMA in addition to the new awards in the region.
The area also completed 20 million man-hours without experiencing a loss time into them.
In our Asia area at our Ichthys project 70% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures have been completed and the project has completed 10 million man-hours without a lost time incident.
There were delays during the quarter for weather and productivity from our third-party contractor which pushed out some of the revenue we expected to recognize during the first quarter.
Stuart will provide some additional color on the revenue later on.
The Construction Support Vessel 108 was delivered to operations in February within budget and is in Batam preparing for mobilization for its work scope on the Ichthys project currently planned to commence in the second quarter.
A core component to executing projects successfully is health and safety.
At McDermott we have a strong culture of HSE and one of the leaders in the EPCI sectors as well as in oil and gas industry.
With over 25 years of experience in the industry I am extremely proud of the health and safety focus at McDermott.
The attention given to this critical aspect of our business is evidenced by the overall safety and health record of our company globally.
On our vessels and in our fabrication yards we have industry-leading results for HSE as evidenced by the millions of man hours without a lost time incident that I referenced a moment ago.
As you look at our bids outstanding and targeted projects at March 31 2015 we believe we are well-positioned in the markets where we expect there to be ongoing capital projects.
We continue to see more near-term opportunities in our offshore markets than our subsea markets.
We expect that the Middle East area will remain the more stable and provide the greatest opportunity for new projects over the next several quarters.
McDermott continues to have significant opportunities with national oil companies as evidenced by some of our new project awards in 2015.
We believe that the NOCs are more likely to continue with few development projects in today's market given the greater resilience to commodity prices and the amount of brownfield work that needs to be performed.
A strategic point to remember about McDermott is where we participate in a project's lifecycle.
Our EPCI services are the final component of a field's development before new oil or gas production.
By the time McDermott is engaged clients have already invested a significant amount in the development of their field.
With that I would like to turn over the call to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our first quarter financial results and review the new segment reporting that McDermott has initiated.
Then I will discuss the timing of our CapEx spend this year followed by our backlog and current bid pipeline and then provide an update on our cost saving initiatives.
Revenues for the first quarter were $551 million down $255 million or 32% over the sequential quarter and down $53 million from Q1 2014 revenues of $604 million.
The key drivers impacting the current quarter were weather seasonality and third-party performance delays on the marine campaign at our large Ichthys project as well as customer initiated changes at several of our Middle East brownfield projects.
In particular weather and productivity delays at Ichthys slowed the recognition of revenue by approximately $180 million during the quarter.
As a reminder our major subcontractor Ichthys is the main driver of progress revenue recognition this year and is on an identifiable lump-sum fixed-price work scope.
As a result of the delay in recognizing some of the Ichthys revenues gross profit margins of approximately 14% for the period were higher than we have been running over the past few quarters reflecting a larger contribution from projects with higher margins an ongoing focus on project cost management and continued demonstration of improved customer relations with project amendments and close out negotiations.
Operating income totaled $6.6 million during the quarter and included $10.4 million of restructuring expenses.
Our loss project portfolio continued to contribute positively to gross profit during the first quarter by approximately $24 million.
The PB-Litoral project is on track and has seen no further cost slippages over the past several quarters.
The contract amendment from KGO for the Hout Field contributed significantly during the quarter and we negotiated the final close-out of a project in Mexico that was completed in the second quarter of 2014.
Cash flow from operations was a use of $18.5 million for the first quarter driven primarily by changes to working capital.
Net interest expense during the first quarter totaled $12.4 million; this includes $18.7 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $6.3 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
As previously mentioned the CSV 108 has now been placed into service and is awaiting mobilization to the Ichthys Project at the end of Q2.
As a result only the DLV 2000 will drive capitalized interest for the remainder of 2015.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $17.2 million in the first quarter versus $15 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
We measure asset utilization in actual days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards as a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
As mentioned during our Q4 call our asset utilization during the first quarter was at risk of seasonality.
At our fabrication yards utilization of the Batam yard is lower due to the completion of 70% of the structures for the Ichthys campaign.
The offshore fleet utilization was impacted by two factors during the quarter.
The first factor was weather seasonality in our Middle East region where high-winds are prevalent during the early months of the year and second by customer initiated changes to projects causing downtime.
Our subsea vessel utilization decreased from 98% in the fourth quarter to 81% in the first quarter as we added the CSV 108 offshore vessel to the fleet.
First quarter net income was a loss of $14.5 million or $0.06 per fully diluted share.
Net of restructuring charges the first quarter loss would have been reduced by $10.4 million or $0.04 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million shares to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers for our tangible equity units or TEUs.
For the first quarter the TEUs dilution was not included in the outstanding share count calculation because the shares were anti-dilutive.
Moving to the balance sheet at March 31 2015 we reported $800 million in cash and restricted cash a reduction in total cash from the fourth quarter of approximately $53 million.
Restricted cash increased this quarter as we utilized a higher portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $201.4 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $111.8 million at quarter end.
At the beginning of January we changed our segment reporting areas to align our resources and available capacity to better support our customers by changing responsibility for the region's decision-making.
Previously the North Sea in Africa had been aggregated into our Middle East reporting segment.
This North Sea and Africa geography is now being combined with our Americas area to form the Americas Europe and Africa reporting segment.
As it relates to our previous filings all prior periods in the MD&amp;A section have been misstated to conform to the new segments.
Overall the 2013 and 2014 segment changes were not material and the details on the revenue and operating income impact can be found in our supplemental slide deck.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $24 million which include $6.3 million of capitalized interest.
During the fourth quarter conference call we provided 2015 CapEx guidance of $275 million to $295 million which was comprised of the remaining CapEx expected on our two vessels the DLV 2000 and the CSV 108 as well as maintenance and project CapEx of $20 million to $40 million per year.
However the timing on delivery of the DLV 2000 is expected to move to later in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We also expect a small portion of the DLV 2000 CapEx to move into early 2016 to cover sea trials and other commissioning activities.
As a result we expect the CapEx spend for the year to be on the lower end of our Q4 call guidance.
With the CSV 108 recently completed our remaining capital expenditures to complete the vessels during 2015 are expected to be $216 million.
The run rate for maintenance on other project-related expenditures should be in the range of $20 million to $40 million which we view as sustainable in the short term.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $25 million of capitalized interest be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.7 billion at quarter-end which is evenly split between our offshore and subsea operations.
Bookings in the first quarter totaled $698 million driven by new orders from Saudi Aramco Qatar Petroleum Chevron and QGEP and change orders on existing projects.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter-end were $8.8 billion compared to $8.6 billion at the end of the fourth quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 92% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Our list of target projects totaled $16.8 billion as of March 31 2015.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to us or a competitor in the next five quarters.
Approximately 64% of the value of our target projects relate to offshore operations.
As of the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $29.3 billion down slightly from $29.8 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the break down by project type region and work scope of those various items in our supplemental slide presentation on our website.
As I discussed earlier the move of Europe and Africa to the Americas segment has also changed the alignment of opportunities and our bids outstanding and target project breakdown approximately $4 billion of bids outstanding in targets moved from the Middle East area to the Americas area as part of the realignment.
In addition we saw several new opportunities by independents of the coast of Africa added to the Americas Europe and Africa pipeline.
In addition the roll up of backlog in 2016 increased from $500 million to $1.2 billion as a result of the new awards the company won during the first quarter of 2015 which are expected to be completed within two years as well as the work slippage at the Ichthys project.
As discussed during the 4Q call we embarked on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to the overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
Since the beginning of the McDermott profitability initiative and as a result of increased organization efficiencies we have reduced our employee head count by approximately 475 positions.
The expected 2015 cash savings from this reduction is $27.6 million and will be primarily be reflected in our operating expense line.
As mentioned earlier our restructuring charges for the first quarter were $10.4 million including the decision to decommission one of our oldest vessels the DB 101 which was part of the previous guidance given for the year of $25 million to $35 million.
We are in the process of implementing further initiatives on centralization and operational costs.
In addition to the profitability initiatives we also released an additional 1 200 positions as a result of the company's regular work activity and the sequencing of projects primarily related to craft labor and our fabrication yards.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
I've spent a lot of time this afternoon discussing the new awards and the execution of our existing projects all of which are key aspects of our organization's near term focus.
However we also need to build for the future and during the first quarter we kicked off two new initiatives a new consulting group called io with GE oil &amp; gas as well as our new strategic marketing alliance with Petrofac.
Both ventures are progressing well and we look forward to providing additional updates as the year progresses.
We're off to a positive start in 2015 with a multiple new project awards in our AEA and MEA regions.
The work the organization has done over the past year to strengthen this relationships with clients is generating results.
We see the impact not only with our new awards but also in the quality of the dialogue we are having with customers in the current macro commodity environment.
We remain committed to ensuring the successful execution of our existing backlog in a safe and efficient manner where we actively manage our cost and liquidity.
And we remain strongly focused on breaking new awards to support our organization in the coming years.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
And our first question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi David and team.
Hi Tahira.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hi there.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess first question is David on your comment around some deferrals and push outs.
Are these becoming more intense or do you think they are stabilizing to some extent? I think we still have some way to go Tahira.
I still think we have a lagging effect and I would expect that we will be in dialogue with customers on deferral of projects as we see some more stability on oil price plus you know our customers have come back to take a revised look at some of these developments based on the impact that we're starting to see on the supply chain.
So that's not only the services that we provide but the services obviously that our subcontractors and suppliers provide.
So I think this is going to be with us for the next one quarter or two quarters and obviously mainly subject to what happens in the oil price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it okay.
And I guess on that note David I know that one of your larger peers has announced an alliance as well to really look at taking cost supplies out I know you are trying to be innovative as well.
Do you see this bid list you have in essence getting sort of downsized not because activity levels are going down but because you will see a bit of positive deflation in terms of project scope? Well I think what we've said today is that our list of projects whether it's bids outstanding or targets we can see over the next four – five quarters has remained basically flat.
So from that aspect we see it consistent.
But I think obviously compared to some of our peers I think the important thing to highlight is that a large piece of that is in our what I always refer to is our traditional offshore business.
So this is areas where the extraction of a bottle of oil is cheaper than some other places.
So obviously we quote places like Middle East and also some places in Asia.
So we see continuing activity obviously subsea which comes at a higher cost in certain parts and certain regions of the world is a bit more challenged today and obviously it's going to take a little bit more time whether it is through technology or working through the supply chain for some of these projects to get back on line.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you David and I'll hop back in the queue.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi good evening and congratulations on a nice quarter here.
I guess just two questions.
One just to clarify with related to Ichthys and then a second one just on guidance.
First with regards to Ichthys you talked about the weather – the issue with the subcontractor.
How does that impact – I guess what was the hit in the quarter how does that impact the cost and schedule of the project and is there any risk to you associated with that.
Just to be clear it doesn't sound like it but I just want to make sure? And then I guess also I'm just struck with the delays that we had and with the issues with Ichthys this quarter you still – operating income was still $6.6 million Asia was unprofitable.
I'm assuming if you make adjustments to Q1 run rate is much better than your $25 million to $50 million of implied operating income guidance for 2015.
And I think last quarter you said operating income should accelerate as we – or should be higher in the back half of the year.
So I'm just trying to – your guidance looks beatable to achievable.
Is there anything I'm missing with regards to any seasonality factors in the next three quarters that I should be aware of or you just don't want to declare victory yet it's too early? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Jamie it's Stuart I'll take this question...
Sorry there is a lot of a questions in there but...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's okay.
So just first on Ichthys.
The combination of weather and productivity impacted our Q1 revenues by approximately $180 million.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So it was a significant kind of drop in revenue for us.
That was all related to the weather and performance on our subcontractor.
And any cost associated with that remains with our subcontractor because they're on an identifiable fixed price lump sum piece of the contract.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So it was just a timing issue in the recognition for McDermott.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> However that has moved the project schedule obviously slightly to the right and that has knocked over some revenue recognition into 2016 for us.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> As we look at the operating income performance for the quarter obviously we had less contribution from Ichthys which comes at a lower margin and we did have some significant movement around project cost forecasts and certain close out negotiations with certain customers on contracts that allowed us to generate more gross profit than we've seen historically over the past 12 months.
As we move forward into the balance of 2015 obviously subject to forward-looking statements as Darcey said at the outset of the call we still see we have a lot of revenue to generate from our backlog and new prospective work.
And the Ichthys contribution is going to be significantly higher than we've seen in the first quarter.
So therefore that mix effect is what will kind of suppress the forward margins versus what we've seen in Q1.
Okay but operating income should still ramp towards – be higher in the back half of the year in total similar to what you said last quarter? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes in dollar terms yes.
Okay in dollar terms.
All right thanks I'll get back in queue.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning or good afternoon guys sorry.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hey Scott.
I was just curious about the margin profile of the work that you're booking here the tilt during the quarter to more of the traditional offshore brownfield oriented work.
But can you discuss how that might compare to the work that's in your backlog and/or that type of work that's in your backlog and maybe if you could elaborate on the types of trends you're seeing with contract pricing and any customers looking for call it more attractive terms from their point or are you seeing additional pricing pressure in bidding for the jobs that you've won in the quarter? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So Scott if I can just take the Q1 aspect of your question there.
We did see that the bookings we made in the first quarter were at a higher gross profit margin than we currently have in our backlog relating to our projects.
That is based on competitive differentiators that we have both on capabilities and our customer relationships.
And then for the forward piece I'd hand over to David.
Yeah so Scott as we look forward I mean clearly there is going to be pricing pressure in the market just as the workload overall from the whole macro environment reduces.
And there are pockets where we have tested the market and seen some pricing which is not where we want to be as a company but we will look to those areas.
Our focus is what we said earlier and that is we want to compete in the environments where either our vertical integration or our local presence makes a difference and that's been the result of the awards that we announced in Q1 whereby those two items local presence vertical integration and plus a third point that we've changed over the last year and that's our relationship with certain customers and that we've really strengthened in the area.
And that's allowed us to work closer with customers to make projects go ahead.
And I think the KJO Hout project is an example of that where this project had been certainly essentially in a hold period for about one year but we're able to get with the customer get the relationship back on track.
And as a result the existing project is now moving forward and with that we've added quite a significant scope.
So we are constantly monitoring each area we're monitoring what's happening in pricing and we're also working internally throughout MPI to look at how we can improve our competitive position but also working in a collaborative approach with our supply chain to see how that with our main subcontractors and suppliers that would allow us to be more competitive.
Got it.
Thank you.
And as a follow up with regard to the cost reduction program should we think of the targets that you've laid out as being reflective of an evaluation process that's now complete and a market environment where you feel like you have a good handle on things or is it still a situation where you're evaluating the environment there is potential for additional savings and/or changes with regard to this business improvement process? It's still kind of a fluid type situation or is it a situation where you've effectively completed the process and laid out the savings target to the Street (38:30)? Sure.
For our McDermott profitability initiative we set our plans and our targets assuming a certain amount of backlog for 2015.
So we are embarking on those plans at the moment and some examples we've just highlighted for you.
In the event that the company doesn't secure some of its targeted backlog levels then we have the ability to change our plans and change our targets when it comes to the profitability initiative.
Great.
Thanks David.
And your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey.
I just want to inquire a little bit about the opportunities that you're seeing in the Middle East with the NOCs and particularly offshore Saudi Arabia and Qatar and maybe you could give us a little more color in terms of the outlook there next couple of years compared to maybe the previous 18 months.
And there's been some press reports recently about the LTA award coming rather soon.
Yeah Marty.
I've just returned from a two week trip in the Middle East and as you know it's a core part of our business and was able to spend time with just about every CEO in all those countries.
The spend by our customers in that area would appear to be robust you saw as well as Aramco being fairly consistent on their message in terms of their investment we saw ADNOC announce some significant investments some two weeks or three weeks ago.
And also we mentioned earlier we're now starting to see the next wave of projects in Qatar.
So from that aspect it's an area where we see good opportunity.
It is also an area where we feel we have some competitive strengths.
We've been there a long time.
We have a very efficient yard and we have a fleet which is present there and in particularly in Saudi we also have some local presence.
So certainly it's an area which has got significant amount of focus and obviously we're very active today on bidding a lot of projects in all those GCC countries.
Okay.
And Altamira could you maybe talk about the productivity improvements that you're seeing there and now with the free trade agreement – or free trade zone status opportunities there and customer acceptance of the yard? Yes I've been fairly consistent on this.
When I look at Altamira from where we were 12 months ago I've been highlighting the HSE performance and one of the areas of significant improvement has been at that yard.
That's also reflected in our productivity which is now also reflected in what we have said today we believe no further deterioration on the PB Litoral.
In the business by our customers and potential customers the yard there is impressive as I said before.
It's near – and the layout the equipment has certainly got an attraction to our international customers.
We completed our first export project for a project in West Africa which was very successful.
So it's now starting to gain some momentum.
However we do need obviously the business from Pemex as well as international activities.
And obviously we're motoring and watching the situation with the Pemex and Mexican energy reform as that will be an important part of the long-term future of Altamira.
Certainly it is an important asset for McDermott moving forward.
Thank you.
And our question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hey Blake.
Inc.</span></strong> Just trying to understand the relationship or potential relationship here between some of the delays in larger projects and what we see from a cash flow perspective? I guess the start-ups of some new projects and potential milestone payments perhaps under large projects such as Ichthys could have a potential effect.
Is that the case that we would actually expect to see the cash flow numbers improve over the years as that contract unfolds or really just kind of reading too much into 1Q? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
This is Stuart Blake.
The cash profile of each of our projects is somewhat unique and can go through various phases of cash positive neutral or negative.
In terms of the Ichthys project our funding currently is in advance of our expenses and as we see the project evolve over the balance of this year currently we don't see any material change to our overall cash projections for the yearend.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess I was trying to understand from your commentary it would sound as if the KJO was actually recorded as a change order rather than a newer order flow? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That is correct.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just finally I wanted to just chat a bit about your commentary around the positions that have been released at the yard level and the sequencing of projects.
I guess trying to take your commentary and look at the asset utilization summary and your standard hours have actually gone up here.
I guess are you saying here with your sequencing commentary that you actually think the standard hours remain the same but you can do less with more and at the same time you've attacked what would by my math would be a big portion of that absorption dollar issue? Yes within our fabrication yards we are trying to tie more accurately our billable cost to our workload.
So over the quarter as certain activities and certain projects were completed within the yard or left the yard as was the example in Altamira then we very quickly addressed our variable cost structure which is our craft labor within the yard.
So we see this as a normal mode of business going forward.
And we expect to see increases and decreases in our craft levels just depending on the various sequencing of our projects in their lifecycle.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
I'll turn it back.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob this afternoon.
Thanks for talking our question.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about the competitive bidding environment? And just if you're still seeing a rational bidding coming out of the Asia region and that's why you aren't penetrating the market as well? Yes I mean obviously we're in a different environment in probably what has happened over the last six months.
And so with that every time we look at a prospect we've got to look at what I've said earlier is where we can offer some difference or where we can be more competitive.
Important thing is not to waste our dollars chasing work which the environment is over competitive.
We also look at the number of competitors.
And so that has now been part of a lot of our decision making at the start of our bidding process before we waste time effort and dollars.
But certainly there are parts of the world where the market has become very competitive and you quoted Asia which is certainly a case and in particular India where a lot of these bids and the results are in the public domain and we're seeing some large delta in the numbers between the lowest bidder and the highest bidder.
But in other areas we're seeing more disciplined bidding where we see our major competitors and we see that in areas such as Middle East and in places such as Europe and Africa and Americas.
Okay great.
And then you've already touched on it a little bit but I was hoping we could get into more detail about the PB Litoral project and just loss projects in general.
I realize that most of the stuff remains on track to your previous guidance.
I was wondering if any of them had turned accretive or if there is any changes in that area that we should know about? Overall our loss project portfolio was accretive to earnings in the first quarter by some $24 million.
That was a combination of normal execution negotiating change orders and negotiating close-outs as well as a large contract amendment on KJO Hout.
Overall as we look forward we would hope that we could continue that execution profile and continue to recover some of the loss positions on those contracts.
That's great.
Thanks so much guys.
I'll hop back into the queue.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Just following up on those change order recoveries that you mentioned.
Can you give us a sense of – I know you probably don't want to talk about specific projects but what potentially is out there and the schedule for this year on what we might see settled and I'm assuming none of that's included in your guidance? So John a normal part of our business is changes in scope and then discussion with the customer.
Depending on where the negotiation with the customer stands and the documentation that we have we either take the cost without revenue or we take the cost with revenue or ultimately we take the profit with the revenue.
So depending on how negotiations are going will depend on how we want to book our revenue.
I don't really want to provide any future guidance on the level of success that we may or may not have with certain projects as regards to certain negotiations.
Okay understood.
But in terms of the $24 million relative to the portion of the projects that are in a loss position is it the same relative exposure or can you give us any help there or any color? Yes.
I think if were to give you some more color then I think we would be giving you specifics on projects.
I will say that we continue to actively work to execute the remaining portfolio of loss projects and we have five currently today four of which is in backlog and one is which has essentially finished.
We are actively working to execute that portfolio and engage with the customer to recover cost.
But I wouldn't want to give any guidance specifically.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
and John if I could add to that...
Please.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> ...is that what I would say is over the last 12 months is that McDermott has generally moved into a different space in terms of its discussions with its customer in that we are developing our relationships which is then resulting in more dialog and in a better let's say negotiating environment.
And I think that hopefully that will continue.
As I said we continue to develop our relationships with our customers.
Okay fair enough.
Appreciate the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Hi George.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just wanted to touch on one of the points you made earlier around standardization.
As you guys work alongside GE on this consulting endeavor do you really need your customers to work together as well? I mean it seems like standardization is going to play a big role in reducing costs.
You can have one standardized solution for one customer and another for another customer.
It really needs to be a more pervasive endeavor.
And so does that mean this is maybe a longer-duration effort that we don't see the fruits of for a numbers of years or just curious how you're thinking about that? George there are many ways to look at it.
I think as we move into the io is that we anticipate that over the next year we will see some early benefits.
We are in dialog with customers when you talk about standardization but we're also in dialog with customers and we are replying some of the areas looking at specification some customer requirements.
So we're embarking on dialog with our customers in those areas.
So when I look at io I look at it both from near-term as well as long-term but certainly a lot of dialog going on with our customers in particular I think it's important to highlight here with io that between McDermott and GE's offering to the market is very wide and we can address everything from the well all the way through the whole production facility.
So it's not all about subsea.
It's all about offshore production facility.
So we've had a lot of early engagement with customers who are very interested on this whole model.
And we think it should – also believe it's going to bear some fruit over this next period.
Sure.
That's helpful color.
And then maybe just one more for me.
You mentioned subsea in your answer.
As you look out at your targeted projects and bids outstanding $6.8 billion in subsea is there any potential for any large awards on the subsea front to hit in 2015 or given we've already seen one large award on that front this year does it feel like most of those opportunities are 2016 plus for you guys? I think – it means what you describe by major and large I think we'll see some subsea awards during 2015.
There are some large projects out there that we're working on which in terms of schedule we would anticipate that maybe during 2015 the contractor could be selected but the customer's final investment decision may move into 2016.
All right.
Thanks.
The rest of my questions were knocked out earlier.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hey Brian.
Hey Brian.
Hey.
Just coming back to the restructuring maybe just a point of clarification.
So the 1 200 positions that were released that was noted in the press release and in the commentary is that expected to result in additional savings or is that simply sustain the current level of operating performance or margin within the current portfolio? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hi Brian.
It's Stuart.
Those 1 200 positions would just kind of maintain the current profitability levels within the current portfolio.
They were not really associated with our McDermott profitability initiative.
That was around the 475 heads that was really around the efficiencies of the organization.
Okay understood.
And separately with the state of the Asian region obviously more competitive as you mentioned.
It seems that volume is fairly light.
Are there potentially additional plans to sustain the level of profitability there if you're anticipating – or if you are anticipating a potential cost issue from an overhead absorption perspective? Brian I'll let Stuart take the second part.
But whilst we look at our Asia business I think we also – it's worth bearing in mind is that the two large projects we have ongoing in Asia one which is BSP Brunei Shell is a three-year long project.
We still have to wait for the customer to commit to years two and then he then comments to year three during year two.
But also bear in mind that Ichthys still has a significant ways to go is that – that is obviously not tomorrow's problem and that we've still got a large amount of backlog to execute over the next year or so.
And I'll pass it over to Stuart to maybe get some more...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thanks David.
Yes.
So for MPI at the moment Brian it's based around a certain anticipated level of activity.
If a geographic area in this case Asia falls short of the activity that we would foresee then yes we would start to look at additional plans.
In general within McDermott we look at various cost scenarios giving certain contract awards or not awards so we're always looking at various ways that we can manage our cost base to the activity that we're going to see.
If I could sneak just one last in.
I just noticed your contracts in progress account which I assume is effectively unbilled receivables just ticked up in the quarter.
You had been on a nice downtrend in the second half of the year.
Does that uptick in Q1 just simply reflect the natural ebb and flows of the projects you're executing or are you seeing some hold-up in transitioning some unbilled receivables into billed receivables and eventually collections? Is there anything to be concerned about on that front? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No.
That account you're looking at on the balance sheet is just part of the normal ebb and flow on various progress dates within certain contracts that have certain milestone billings.
So just a normal working capital quarter for us.
Got it.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just had one last question on Ichthys.
Do you folks have to incur liquidation damages if you do deliver the project off schedule? Well Tahira I mean there is LDs on this contract definitely yes.
Is that a cause for concern today? No we've had some slippage with our subcontractor but as I said the project's got a long way to go and we're certainly not in that space at this time and this project goes all the way through 2016 into early 2017.
So we'll watch it carefully but at this time it is not a focus or a concern.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you folks.
And our next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Chad on for Vishal.
Most of my questions have been answered but just one quick one on backlog.
So against the backdrop of your comments about seeing push outs what's your conviction level about being able to grow backlog exiting 2015? Well I think there's – Chad there are opportunities out there.
I mean what we've done on Q1 is maintained a flat position on our backlog.
Obviously we're in a different macro environment from 12 months ago.
So obviously it's got a lot of our focus and is our primary focus of today.
Our level of opportunities in terms of bids outstanding and the whole pipeline of bids remains flat.
So we continue on that path.
Obviously we're not in control of when our customers award contracts.
So you could expect there could be some volatility between quarters but it's obviously our main focus as we move forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And just a question on the Americas region.
So how should we think about the evolution of profit margin and the ability to return to positive levels? How much is internal and how much is required to or based on winning awards? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes Chad this is Stuart.
I think the Americas region obviously now consists of three primary markets which is the Americas which is Gulf of Mexico Brazil and then Africa and Europe.
So each has a different mix of short lead time projects which is typical in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The much longer-term projects that we're seeing in Africa and the North Sea.
That area needs to win work in 2015 to continue on its path that you see in Q1.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Darcey Matthews for closing remarks.
Thank you Jasmine.
And thank you everyone for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at some of the upcoming investor conferences we're going to be attending including the Morgan Stanley Conference tomorrow in Houston; The Johnson Rice One-on-One Engineering &amp; Construction Conference in Chicago on May 27; The Deutsche Bank Conference in Chicago on June 3; and then finally the Credit Suisse Conference in New York on 4.
We hope you'll also join us for our second quarter 2015 conference call scheduled for August 10 of this year.
Again thank you for your time and operator this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and you all have a great day.