Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tia and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we're recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our second quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We have also posted a presentation of supplemental financial information that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of today August 10 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30 which provide some discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As you can see by our results today McDermott reported its strongest quarter of the past year-and-a-half.
We were awarded two new sizable and one large award during the period and most importantly we were once again selected by Saudi Aramco to participate in their new long-term agreement.
This was a significant achievement for McDermott and ensures that we will have the opportunity to bid on future Saudi Aramco greenfield and brownfield projects through 2021.
Execution on our existing portfolio of projects was positive and for the third consecutive quarter our legacy loss projects are under control.
We had positive financial results with revenues gross profit and operating income up for the quarter across all of our business areas.
Year-over-year our numbers have also improved as we moved out of our turnaround phase in 2014 and back into more normal business cycle with our industry peers.
While we see continued pressure on commodity prices that impact our of clients' longer-term capital expenditures our core markets continue to provide opportunities.
Although the market dynamics have not changed substantially over the past two quarters there are strong market indications that the timing of this cycle will be longer than originally anticipated.
However with more than 90% of McDermott's existing projects and target opportunities outside of the U.S.
we believe that we are well positioned in the areas of the world where customers will commit capital on new projects or continue the development of existing fields.
In particular in our Middle East area we continue to see projects progress into final investment decision or FID.
Saudi Aramco has been very public about maintaining its current production and market share levels.
Qatar is beginning its next wave of infrastructure build-out to support its gas fields and LNG facilities with both Qatar Petroleum and Ras Gas proceeding with new projects in country.
As you may remember we announced contracts from both of these companies earlier this year.
In addition ADNOC the national oil company of UAE as announced anticipated spending of $25 billion over the next five years in their offshore fields to increase production.
Like the other companies in the region McDermott has a robust history of successfully executing projects in the UAE.
So relative to where we anticipate the near-term capital spend to occur we have a history of project engagements and execution local content capabilities and the appropriate fleet to support the required regional activity.
Now I'd like to provide an overview of some of our key new awards during the quarter.
In June McDermott announced that it was selected for Saudi Aramco's new long-term agreement or LTA.
We have extensive history of over 45 years working effectively with Saudi Aramco.
Through a combination of our Dubai-based capabilities and our engineering center and fabrication yard in Saudi Arabia we are able to align our organization with Saudi Aramco's In-Kingdom growth and local content objectives.
While a few project awards remain outstanding under the original LTA the new LTA establishes the terms and conditions by which McDermott will bid on future EPCI opportunities for at least the next six years.
Bidding activity with Saudi Aramco under the newly awarded LTA remains high.
In May we announced our second contract of the year from Saudi Aramco for 12 jackets of varying tonnage to be installed in the offshore oil and gas fields of Saudi Arabia.
This EPCI award utilizes the full scope of McDermott's vertically integrated business from engineering and procurement through to the fabrication and installation.
The work is expected to be executed through the beginning of 2016 in already developed fields and is what we term brownfield work.
Brownfield refers to the enhancement addition to and maintenance of existing producing fields.
The oil and gas fields offshore Saudi Arabia are comprised of complicated interconnected structures.
Our knowledge of these fields and our ability to execute the work without impacting or disturbing existing production was a key reason we believe for McDermott's selection for the award.
In our Americas Europe and Africa area we received two new awards during the second quarter.
The first was from PEMEX for full-scope EPCI work and pre-commissioning of the Ayatsil-C replacement jacket along with the installation of the associated deck.
This is the fourth contract McDermott has received for the Ayatsil field and follows the successful delivery of the Ayatsil-B drilling platform in 2014 and installation of the Ayatsil-A offshore jacket deck and piles earlier this year.
Our vertically integrated EPCI approach in Mexico allows McDermott to provide PEMEX with a faster delivery timeframe and a cost-effective solution.
We will use our in-house engineering and procurement experts along with our Altamira fabrication yard located in Mexico to fabricate the approximately 14 800 ton structure.
Our Intermac 600 transportation and launch barge and heavy-lift DB50 vessel are scheduled to complete the installation.
This is an excellent example of McDermott's ability to take an offshore project from design to completion.
With our state-of-the-art Altamira yard and our ability to support future local content requirements we believe we are well positioned to capitalize the ongoing development in Mexico.
We remain positive on the longer-term market outlook in Mexico as the country continues to work with the international energy industry to develop its resources.
The second award in our AEA area was from LLOG Exploration Offshore in support of their Otis development located in the Gulf of Mexico.
McDermott is providing project management along with engineering fabrication and installation of a 14-mile-long insulated rigid flowline.
Our Houston office will perform the overall project management and engineering.
The rigid flowline is scheduled to be assembled and fabricated at our new spoolbase facility in Gulfport Mississippi.
This is our first contract award for rigid reel-lay in the area since the delivery of the North Ocean 105 and supports the development of our new Gulfport marine facility and spoolbase.
We have enhanced our expertise in rigid pipelay and spoolbase operations by adding experienced talent and expect to be producing pipe at the facility in the fourth quarter.
This award and our new spoolbase are an integral step in establishing our entry into the subsea tieback market in Gulf of Mexico.
In addition to the new awards we received during the quarter McDermott in partnership with GE Oil &amp; Gas was selected was one of two finalists for the front-end engineering and design contracts for the Fortuna FLNG project.
This is Ophir's energy project in Equatorial New Guinea and the FEED work is the first step in derisking the total project as it moves toward a final investment decision which is expected in 2016.
During the FEED process GE and McDermott will be working to determine and detail an overall subsea solution for the development.
We continue to strengthen our relationship with GE and the Ophir project is another notable example of how supporting our customers earlier on in a field's development cycle provides better cost understanding and scheduling certainty.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks we have had a strong quarter of project performance in all other areas.
In Asia our Ichthys project continues to profitable and on schedule.
We saw improved execution on the marine campaign from our third-party subcontractor during the period.
McDermott's Construction Support Vessel 108 arrived infield at the end of June and subsequently commenced a 400-day plus-marine program hooking up flowlines umbilicals and installing other subsea structures.
On the fabrication side our yard in Batam has completed 80% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures commissioned for the project.
The engineering scope has been finished as has 80% of the supply chain and procurement activities.
In our Middle East Area we had a strong execution from three of our larger projects in the region.
In particular I want to highlight McDermott's activities on one of these projects and the importance of working collaboratively with customers particularly within the current macro commodity price environment.
Earlier in the year Saudi Aramco asked us to significantly accelerate a field's project timeline to allow earlier gas production.
Through detailed coordination planning expertise and our ability to execute all aspects of the EPCI process we were able to meet their project goals.
The actual implementation speaks directly to the strength of McDermott's business model.
Another example of collaborative partnering during the quarter was the recent work performed by the DB50 in the Gulf of Mexico to support Heerema's activities for Anadarko's Heidelberg Spar installation.
The hull for this spar had arrived infield and required positioning and securing to the seabed floor.
At the request of both companies McDermott provided the needed engineering support and offshore solution to keep the project on schedule.
The work completed by DB50 also highlights the versatility of McDermott's asset base.
Over the past eight months DB50 executed heavy lifts such as the Megalodon 3 300 ton jacket and the 2 100 ton topsides as well as assisting customers such as Enbridge Power Generation with smaller module lifts at approximately 300 tons.
The vessel has also installed a modularized drilling rig in Mexico on behalf of DrillMec.
More recently the DB50 safely completed Phase I of the Exxon Julia subsea scope by installing suction piles and subsea manifold.
Having a versatile fleet supported by an integrated organization that works collaboratively with customers to provide the right solution is a valuable asset in today's markets.
Before I turn the call over to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials I would like to spotlight an important milestone for McDermott concerning health and safety.
Not only are high-quality safety standards critical for our employees and the environments we operate in they're also strong indication of how an organization is managing the execution and quality of its projects.
In the second quarter we exceeded a key milestone of one year without a lost time incident in all of McDermott's global operations.
With over 11 000 employees around the world engaged in a variety of roles from land to sea a culture of workplace safety is crucial for our people customers and local business communities.
I'm very proud of the focus our organization has placed on health and safety and for achieving the excellent result.
In addition to our global achievements our Altamira yard – fabrication yard reached seven million man-hours without a lost-time injury and our yard in Batam received two significant awards during the quarter.
The first recognition was from Chevron Australia for outstanding environmental control on the Gorgon project for Western Australia and the second was received in Indonesia from the Workers Social Security Management Agency for our commitment to the health and safety of our employees at our Batam yard.
And now I will turn the call over to Stuart.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our second quarter financial results and the timing of our CapEx spend this year.
Then I will discuss our backlog and current bid pipeline and provide an update on our cost saving initiatives.
Finally I will conclude with a discussion of our updated guidance for the remainder of 2015.
Revenues for the second quarter were $1.047 billion up $496 million over the sequential quarter and up $571 million from Q2 2014 revenues of $476 million.
The key factors affecting the current quarter were strong revenue recognition on several projects in our Asian and Middle East areas.
In Asia at Ichthys we saw increased productivity from our major subcontractor on the marine campaign and further pipeline installation progress at our BSP project.
As a reminder our subcontractor Ichthys is the main driver of revenue recognition progress this year and is on an identifiable lump sum fixed-price work scope.
In addition we had a strong quarter for revenue recognition from three of our larger projects in the Middle East that David mentioned earlier.
We had increased progress from a subcontractor on one project along with schedule advancements and increased activities at two other projects in the area.
Operating income totaled $41.6 million during the quarter and included $15.4 million of restructuring expenses and $8.7 million of one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets.
Operating income for the second quarter was positively impacted by revenue improvements a closeout item in our Papa Terra project in Brazil and higher marine utilization during the quarter.
Year-over-year operating income was markedly improved as the Q2 2014 figures included $45.7 million of gains on the disposal of assets and impairments.
Without those gains the operating income for the second quarter of 2014 would have been negative.
Cash flow from operations was a use of $7.6 million for the second quarter driven primarily by changes to working capital.
Net interest expense during the second quarter totaled $13 million.
This includes $18.4 million of gross interest expense capitalization of $5.2 million of interest for our remaining vessel under construction the DLV 2000 and $0.2 million of interest income.
Our other vessel that was previously under construction the CSV 108 mobilized to the Ichthys project at the end of Q2.
Over-recovery of direct operating expenses resulted in an overall credit of $1.9 million in the second quarter as we saw improved performance from our offshore marine fleet compared to the under-absorbed costs of $17.2 million in the first quarter of the year.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilizations are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
As a reminder we measure asset utilization and actual days for our vessels and man-hours for our fabrication yards each as a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
At our fabrication yards utilization at the Batam yard continues to scale down as we move toward the completion of the structures for the Ichthys campaign.
Utilization at our Altamira yard was also lower primarily due to the completion of the Mafumeira project in the first quarter of the year.
With improved weather the offshore fleet utilization increased from 67% in the first quarter to 124% in the second quarter as all offshore fleet vessels were active during the period.
Our subsea vessel utilization decreased from 81% in the first quarter to 77% in the second quarter as the CSV 108 was on standby to mobilize the Ichthys and the North Ocean 105 came off charter in Brazil.
Second quarter net income was $11.5 million or $0.04 per fully diluted share.
Net of restructuring charges and one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets the second quarter net income would have improved by $24.1 million or $0.08 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers for our tangible equity units or TEUs.
With a positive net income in the second quarter the dilution for the TEUs was included in our fully diluted share count adding an additional 40.9 million shares.
Moving to the balance sheet at the end of June we reported $771 million in cash unrestricted cash a reduction in total cash from the first quarter of approximately $29 million.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $208 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $117 million at quarter end.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $24 million which includes $5.2 million of capitalized interest.
The key driver of our CapEx spend for 2015 is the timing of the delivery of our flagship vessel the DLV 2000.
Because of construction delays delivery of the vessel is now expected to be in the first quarter of 2016.
Correspondingly CapEx for 2015 is now expected to be in the range of $130 million to $140 million for the year including maintenance and project CapEx of $30 million to $40 million.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $23 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.1 billion at quarter end slightly weighted toward our offshore operations as the subsea work at Ichthys continues to progress to completion.
Bookings in the second quarter totaled $429 million driven by new orders from Saudi Aramco PEMEX and LLOG as well as change orders on existing projects.
New awards represented $295 million and change orders represented $134 million of our order intake for the quarter.
The continuing importance of change orders to our business remains positively impacting our revenues and the gross margins on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
From the first quarter to the second quarter of this year the amount of unapproved change orders in backlog declined over $35 million.
The timing of new order intake however remains volatile as our customers continue to evaluate their project economics in today's low commodity price environment.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter-end were $7.5 billion compared to $8.8 billion at the end of the first quarter.
Of these amounts approximately 72% of our expanding bids and change orders relates to our offshore operations.
The reduction of $1.3 billion was primarily driven by the receipt of new awards and the loss of several bids in India.
Our list of target projects totaled $13.5 billion as of the end of June with the major change from the prior quarter coming from Chevron's Gendalo-Gehem project moving past the five quarters that are represented in our target pipeline.
As a reminder targets are both projects that we intend to bid and we expect will be awarded to McDermott or a competitor in the next five quarters.
McDermott remains disciplined in our bidding for new awards.
Our bids and target pipeline consists of those opportunities where we firmly believe that we have a convincing competitive differentiator through our assets local content or integrated EPCI solutions.
Similar to our bids and change orders outstanding approximately 73% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
There has been no further deterioration over the past several quarters of our portfolio of legacy loss-making projects and we continue to actively manage the downside risk of the portfolio.
In particular PB-Litoral is nearing completion with preparations well underway for the conclusion of the construction offshore installation hookup and commissioning.
At the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $24.1 billion down from $29.2 billion in the sequential quarter.
The decline quarter-over-quarter was driven primarily by the shift out of the pipeline of Gendalo-Gehem and the missed awards in India as previously mentioned.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown of our revenue pipeline by project type area work scope and other defining characteristics in our supplemental slide presentation on our website.
Our 2016 backlog of work increased $300 million from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion as a result of new awards the company won during the second quarter of 2015 which are expected to be completed over the next two years.
Of the 2016 backlog approximately $165 million represents legacy loss-making projects that we expect to roll off at zero gross margin during the year.
Our current cost reduction initiative to improve our profitability and flexibility continues.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to our overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
We continue to progress towards our target of an expected $50 million of annual cash savings for 2015.
In the first quarter we realized the majority of the rightsizing of the organization.
During the second quarter we have focused our efforts on centralizing several of the company's support functions and launching supplier cost reduction initiatives primarily in our marine and supply chain functions.
In general these initiatives are about leveraging McDermott's global purchasing power while positioning the organization to move more costs from fixed to variable thereby allowing the organization to scale up or down with business demand.
Our restructuring charges for the second quarter were $15.4 million and the one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets was $8.7 million.
Finally I would like to discuss our revised guidance for the full-year 2015.
Before I comment on the revised guidance I would like to remind everyone on the call about the disclaimer Darcey provided at the outset of the call regarding forward-looking statements.
That disclaimer applies to all of the forward-looking statements David and I have already provided and certainly applies to our statements about guidance.
The revised guidance does not include amounts for unplanned and unreserved contingencies.
As you saw in our press release which is more fully detailed in our supplemental slide deck we have revised our expected revenue range downward $300 million for the full year due to first quarter delays of Ichthys revenue recognition which will shift into 2016 and customer-initiated project schedule changes primarily in our Middle East business.
Positively our guidance range on expected operating income has increased $20 million at the higher end as we see improved execution on our projects and the impact of our focus on cost management yielding results.
As mentioned earlier the timing shift of the delivery of the DLV 2000 the largest driver for CapEx during the year means we anticipate a substantially lower CapEx spend for 2015.
We now expect our 2015 CapEx to be in the range of $100 million to $140 million excluding capitalized interest of which $30 million to $40 million represents maintenance and project CapEx for the year.
Capitalized interest is now revised to an expected $23 million for the full year.
Due primarily to the timing changes of our CapEx spend we expect our 2015 cash and restricted cash number to be in the range of $700 million to $750 million.
We have also revised our expected restructuring cost range upwards $15 million to reflect additional severance costs external consulting support and the final costs related to the decommissioning of the DB101.
With our updated guidance for the second half of 2015 we still expect to fully comply with all of the covenants on our debt.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for some closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
We've spent a lot of time over the past year talking about our relationships with customers and the importance of developing and maintaining those relationships.
The work that our organization has done over the past year and a half is even more relevant today.
The commodity macro environment is limiting our customers' CapEx spend forcing clients to reprioritize their project portfolios and is compelling all participants in the energy value chain to examine every level of costs.
McDermott's increased engagement with our customers is essential to ensuring we have the right solutions which can be executed in a timely manner at an optimal price.
Our advancements in this area directly reflect on the progress made by the company in project execution and financial performance.
To help our customers address their project priorities we continue to strengthen our collaboration with our partners like GE Oil &amp; Gas and Petrofac to provide the right technical and cost solutions to the customers' project challenges.
Our ability to be flexible and adjust to compressed timelines as demonstrated for Saudi Aramco's gas field project are critical to staying competitive in the current business environment.
Our quick response and support of Anadarko and Heerema's Gulf of Mexico activities highlights one of our core business spends working collaboratively with both peers and customers to solve customer project requirements.
As we look toward the second half of the year we remain confident in the steps we have taken to ensure McDermott's sustainability.
We intend to continually and actively manage our liquidity and costs as we remain focused on securing new work through collaborative involvement with our customers.
Moreover our organization is well positioned with the customers in the global regions where we anticipate capital spend to occur in the near term.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good evening.
And nice quarter.
I guess the first question I guess relates to guidance.
I appreciate that you increased your operating income guidance.
However just the implied math for the back half of the year implies you're not earning much profit in the back half of the year.
You're more comparable to first-quarter levels.
I'm just trying to understand what would be the drivers behind the drop-off in operating income in the back half of the year given the problem projects seem to be okay or manageable.
You're making headway on the cost cutting side.
Is it a mix issue? The revenue decline isn't big enough in my opinion so just trying to get a feel for that.
And then I guess my second question relates to if we look at 2016 and what you have for backlog today you have like $1.45 billion.
As you look into 2016 can you talk about the prospects or how you think you'll end on backlog or the visibility into 2016 as we exit the year because it would imply if we can't improve much from here you're going to have to do more on the cost cutting side.
Thanks.
Thanks Jamie.
This is Stuart.
I'll take the first part of your question around the second half of this year.
One of the key drivers to the somewhat lower profitability implied in the second half is the under-absorption of our fixed costs as we look at the various work programs and schedules we have and the assets that utilization does not utilize.
And as we progress into the fourth quarter we also have the potential of quite a lot of seasonality impact in our offshore and subsea fleet.
So that's what's driving the lower implied profitability in the second half.
And I'm sorry can you just remind me in terms of the cost savings what you guys have gotten to-date versus what your expectation is in the back half just so I know where we are? Yeah at the end of the first quarter we estimated that we were on about $27 million of annualized savings for 2015.
At the end of the second quarter we're up to $35 million estimated annual savings.
Okay.
Great.
Okay.
And Jamie I'll take the second question.
Obviously as we've said before as we think we've gone through the story obviously a lot of our focus was based on execution as we went through the turnaround last year.
And also a lot of the focus this year is that we build backlog and we've talked before about how we bid the processes and systems that were put in place.
Today the challenge that we have is the predictability of when customers obviously are going to make decisions or FID on certain projects.
And so there's a lot of volatility around the timing of that.
What I would say though what I said during the call earlier in the call is that our bidding activity remains high and in particular in the Middle East.
So we've got obviously we know we've got still a ways to go but I would say that today we see a lot of opportunities and a lot of prospects that we certainly will be competing in the bidding phase.
Okay.
And then sorry one last – the part that you have in your guidance now does not include amounts for unplanned or unreserved contingencies.
I think that's new.
Are you trying to send a message? I just I'm sorry I'm trying to understand what message you're trying to send there.
And then I'll hop back in queue.
Hi Jamie.
It's Stuart.
Yes we'd just refer you back to our 10-Q and our updates on litigation in the quarter.
Okay.
I'll check that out.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Congrats folks on a strong execution quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> First question is really in regards to that FID outlook and the anticipation of it.
Clearly you guys have shown you can execute.
And in that reference would love to get a little more color on your bid pipeline in terms of the economics of those projects.
It seems a lot of the projects are still on the oil side yet of course you seem to be more on the shallow water side there.
So I would assume if you look at the breakeven point would you say those projects are potentially looking economical at $60 oil or below? Or – would love to get a sense of any color you can provide there.
So Tahira that was many questions in one question.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
I'll see if I can try and answer it.
So if you look at our the supplemental deck we always talk about the split between customers between the nature of projects.
What we see is in the areas of the more shallow waters again talking about places like Middle East Mexico and parts of Asia I think that the economics would indicate that those projects are viable today at current commodity prices.
I would say that in the case of particularly with Saudi Aramco is that bidding activity as I said earlier remains high.
And we've just gone through the process of – gone through for the award of the LTA agreement.
Obviously there hasn't been any awards of any projects against that.
And that's where we do see quite a lot of bids ongoing.
So as Aramco have gone through their process and that's just been completed back at the end of Q2 is that we would expect to see Aramco start to release some projects over these next couple of quarters which we are competing against with the three other LTA contenders.
So we see activities good activities for us in Mexico.
You saw again we had another award with PEMEX and we see obviously shallow water opportunities in Asia.
Obviously in some of the deep water we see some of that taking a bit longer particularly on the large new developments.
But what we see for example in deep water Gulf of Mexico we still see the movement of subsea tiebacks which is all about enhancing the existing facilities.
So although we're seeing some slowness on new large field deep-water developments I think we're seeing good activity on subsea tiebacks.
And a result of that we were awarded our first subsea project rigid reel project in the Gulf of Mexico which is obviously a market entry for us.
Does that kind of help answer some of that question? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah definitely it does help.
And it seems like some of the Petrobras projects even though they're deep water seem to be economical at $60 or below David.
Yeah that would seem to be the case.
If you look at what's happening (42:18).
Obviously Petrobras are working through a few other issues at the moment and obviously came out more just recently with their new business plan.
So we're waiting to see the timing of new bids that will come from that area.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And a follow-up for that David if you look at the competitive side you mentioned some bid losses in India.
And recently it seems like one of your larger players is also potentially preparing to get a little more aggressive on pricing.
Any thoughts on how you're thinking about the competitive landscape going forward? Well I think the challenges that we've had in India is a different group of competitors than what we're looking at – the bids are ongoing on the East Coast of India which are more around the deep water.
So there's different groups of competitors.
From our side again our big focus over this last year has been all about our own internal processes on how we bid.
And as we've talked about a lot about our NPI process to make sure that we have a fixed cost structure which is competitive in each of the areas that we're working.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you folks and congrats on the quarter again.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Chad on the line for Vishal.
I would like to go back to your profitability in the second quarter and I apologize if this was covered already in the comments.
But it seemed to be a little better than expected and I was hoping you could separate how much of the improvement came from closeouts versus actual improvements in operating efficiency.
Hi Chad.
This is Stuart.
If you look in our Q we disclosed the value of the closeout we had in Brazil it was slightly over $10 million.
And outside of that one item the rest of the result was driven by essentially project execution in the quarter.
So a very successful recurring quarter for us in part driven by the over-recovery of our fixed cost base driven by our offshore marine fleet that was very active during the quarter.
And there's some more detail on those statistics in our supplemental deck.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then we all know that oil prices are – or low oil prices are pushing out a lot of the award decisions and there's really not much you can do about that.
But I'm just trying to better understand just the underlying fundamentals of the company.
So I'd be curious to hear your view on how your win rates evolved in this environment and then how it compares to the year past.
Well I think it's difficult to make any comment.
Historically prior to what's happened the last couple of years McDermott would say they had a win rate of roughly 25%.
Statistically we are looking at that today and we are pulling data together to see what our real performance is and maybe we will look at that and talk about it in future quarters but today we just have insufficient data.
So it's very difficult to say what the win rate is.
Clearly as I said earlier the environment is challenging and I think what's more challenging is the volatility around timing of awards.
Clearly we've seen it is where oil production is economical and I've touched on before Middle East Mexico those two areas some parts of Asia we see projects continue there but it's the predictability of the timing which is a challenge today.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And if I can just squeeze one more in.
So to reach your guidance your revenue guidance of $3 billion to $3.3 billion you'll need to recognize about $1.4 billion-$1.7 billion of revenues in the second half of the year.
So I was just curious how much will come from backlog in hand versus what you need to go out and win in the market? Chad this is Stuart.
If you look in our Q we disclosed the backlog roll-off and you'll see for the second half of 2015 we estimate rolling off $1.431 billion.
So the majority of our second half revenue to meet guidance would come from a backlog roll-off.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steven.
In light of these broad profitability initiatives that you're undertaking what kind of revenue range are you thinking about for ongoing breakeven levels at this point? Do you think the $2 billion to $3 billion revenue range is reasonable for achieving profitability? And I know there's different types of projects that would be in there but I mean is that a reasonable range? Stephen this is Stuart.
Yes that's a reasonable range.
Okay.
And just kind of curious I know you've got about $159 million of unapproved change orders.
Any sense of the timing of resolution of these? I'm just curious what the pipeline of potential additional profit recovery or enhancement opportunities looks like? Yes Steven it's Stuart again.
Our unapproved change orders of $159 million is comprised of various amounts with national oil companies and international oil companies.
The approval processes are uniquely different between our two customer bases: national oil companies take a very long and methodical and administrative process to the resolution of change orders; and international oil companies whereas they're very methodical and very structured are somewhat faster to resolve issues.
So we see a kind of a blend of anywhere from six months to 18 months to resolve those currently outstanding change orders.
Okay.
And then lastly at the broadest level how has the expected profitability of the Ichthys project changed since the beginning of the year? From the beginning of the year the Ichthys profitability has remained flat as we have executed we have controlled our cost base.
We continue to work with the customer on any scope changes and our profitability expectation as a percentage of revenue remains unchanged.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
So question just really on this second dip in oil prices and maybe over the – just focusing on the last couple months have you seen a dramatic change in the behavior of the customers and just the general bid market environment relative to even three months to six months ago? And/or has there been a dramatic change in behavior on the part of the international oil companies wanting this to move forward as opposed to the national oil companies at this point in time? Scott this is David Dickson.
I think that people are talking about this second dip in oil price and I think what we would say is we haven't seen any change in any behaviors from one of our customers as we get into this.
What we see is a second dip which obviously has only occurred in the last few weeks and so the time span is very short.
I would say that the behaviors in the market with our customers and competitors has been fairly consistent probably over the last one or two quarters.
So there's nothing – has significantly changed.
Okay.
A follow-up – regarding the $300 million in revenue that is coming down for 2015 is all that effectively Ichthys and/or being pushed into 2016 or is there more to it than that? This is Stuart.
A large part of the drop in revenue was related to Ichthys and it's being rolled into 2016.
So that's included in the $300 million in backlog booked for 2016 that I think you said went from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion correct? No.
That $300 million was really as a result of the new awards in the quarter.
The Ichthys project we were hoping to recover the revenue loss in Q1 later on in 2015 but we've only just concluded that we can't.
Got it.
One last one then on the cost savings program.
Should we think about there being – that program effectively being complete or is this a fluid situation? Do you see the potential if things deteriorate relative to your expectations for there to be meaningful upside or however you want to define that? Or how should we generally think about your cost savings initiatives at this point in time? This is Stuart again.
Our McDermott Profitability Initiative has a defined end in the fourth quarter of 2015.
That's when we will have concluded the implementation of the vast majority of the initiatives.
That completion is based around a set activity level that we would hope to achieve in 2016.
If we see that that activity level is materially different from what we expect then we would assess new cost saving initiatives in addition to the current program.
So likely no update on that front really until the end of the year? That is a fair assumption yes.
Great.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
...on the quarter.
I was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more about the dynamics in the Middle East.
And if you look at the bids outstanding and target projects the majority seem to be NOCs and brownfield.
And particularly with respect to Qatar and Saudi Aramco and the fact that you all did the original work on a lot of those fields can you maybe talk about how that plays into the bidding process and looking out over the next couple of years the opportunities off of Qatar? Yeah so Marty so a lot of the stuff obviously we're bidding under the new LTA projects which obviously McDermott has shown over the years to be very strong that some of the capabilities of brownfield obviously working with Aramco as a customer which as you know we've worked hard over the last year or so to really build the relationship.
As well as that we have seen increased activity in bids for Qatar with both QPN and Ras Gas and on the face of it looks like those projects will proceed and awards may be in the next one or two quarters to whoever the successful bidder is.
So I think as a company we are well positioned in terms of our experience.
What's important today is that we focus on our fixed cost structure and ensure that we provide a good expectation and cost competitive bid as we compete in the market.
But we've been there for a long time we do have all the relevant experience we do have all the relevant skill sets and all the relevant assets.
So obviously we're well positioned but obviously we're in this competitive environment.
Okay.
And it appears as though the productivity and execution has improved significantly at Altamira the last couple quarters.
Can you talk about progressing towards the ability to bid on work outside of Mexico the free trade agreement status and customer acceptance of that yard? Yeah so as you know we've talked about this before the ambition is to take the yard to deliver more on international projects and earlier in the year we completed a successful project for Chevron in a development called Mafumeira which is in Angola.
So that's a reflection that the yard can compete and deliver on international projects.
What we saw as we saw round one of the Mexican government in the new offshore blocks is we did see an uptake in inquiries from international customers to understand more about the capabilities of the yard and the performance of the yard.
So I think I've said before longer term we feel positive about the capability of the yard and the ability of that yard not to just compete in these future developments in Mexico but also to compete in other parts of the world whether it's U.S.
Gulf of Mexico or West Africa.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rogers from D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
I just want to follow up a little bit.
I guess David as you look at the change in the oil prices – and I know you said that you haven't seen any impact over the last couple of quarters – but are you preparing for a further decline in CapEx or more aggressive competition? I think we're always preparing for that.
I mean as Stuart talked about our MPI initiative was all about getting a fixed cost structure that made us competitive.
And also we're constantly monitoring our customers' spend plans.
But if you look at also a lot of the projects that we're bidding today and that's why we put this information in the supplemental deck is that you see today more of our bids are actually related to brownfield activity than our greenfield activity.
And also a lot of what we're bidding today is actually with – the majority is with the national oil companies.
And so in those markets we see activity we talk about Aramco is all about market share.
We talked about Qatar which is all about enhancing existing facilities.
So in those areas we see obviously activity.
The areas that we have seen a reduction in activity of bidding activity and that's consistent with their messages is with the super majors and again as highlighted on our supplemental deck.
So we're not seeing a lot of bid activity from the super majors particularly in the areas where we compete or where our assets are positioned.
But I think going back to the comment I mean we have seen – I think what I've said I haven't seen a major impact in the last weeks as the oil price has moved I mean obviously there's been an impact from the start of the year to where we are today and that we are in a more competitive environment.
Okay.
And do you expect any changes in capacity in this market right away? Or will that take some time? When you refer to capacity I'm assuming you're talking about new assets et cetera? Yeah.
From that perspective obviously we're seeing our peers reduce the size of fleet.
We're not at that stage yet.
We don't have the fleet of 30 to 40 vessels.
We have a fleet today which is just north of 10.
And as you've heard from the call our utilization on those assets has been fairly robust through the second quarter.
So we're not at that stage yet and I think I said before we don't have as many mouths to feed when it comes to keeping our fleet utilized.
So we are very much focused on our fleet our capability and obviously maintaining good utilization levels for those assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Andrew Casella from Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just some housekeeping items.
When we look at the first-half working capital numbers I think they'll end up being a use of about $120 million.
How should we think about that for the rest of the year? And what are you assuming in your cash flow guidance for that figure? Andrew this is Stuart.
As we look at working capital for the second quarter I think we're looking at it to be slightly flat with the first half in terms of level if not in a slightly improved position but it will depend on the timing of awards and other milestones that we reach in the contract.
So then for the full year would you expect it to be a use of about say for example $100 million? Is that fair? Yes.
That's a fair assumption.
Okay got it.
And as you guys clearly you want to be in a solid liquidity position and conserve capital but as you look to the marketplace and see some disconnect in your securities what's the management team's appetite for potential bond buybacks or going after the amortizing notes? Just curious what your thoughts are there.
This is Stuart.
For a bond buyback we are limited in our credit agreements for up to $50 million of a bond buyback.
Today our focus is on conserving liquidity as we look to manage our way through this lower for longer cycle of oil prices.
And that is the current approach that we're taking.
Great.
That's all I had.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey I apologize if you talked about this or answered this already but on restructuring the costs are going up for the year.
Why – is there potential that the savings associated with the increased costs could accrue this year or into 2016? Or are there not going to be any additional savings expected? Brian today as we look at the outlook for savings we are kind of reaffirming our original position of $50 million in year savings.
The increase in cost is just reflective of fine-tuning our estimates around some severance in terms of cost on some numbers and the final decommissioning costs around our DB101 vessel.
Got you.
And maybe just secondly on the Middle East project pipeline so you talked about Qatar and potential opportunity for booking projects there.
But on Aramco with the new LTA agreement do you expect you're going to have a meaningful opportunity to book awards through year-end? And there was one in particular I think that was talked about that could be in excess of $1 billion.
What are your thoughts about that coming to market in the second half? Well I think if you listen to what Aramco have said publicly is that the process was to go through the LTA and select more than the number of previous LTA participants which was two which was us and Star.
If you look at the level of bidding activity for Aramco I would say it is at the highest level since I've been with McDermott and all indications from them is that they have a number of projects which they would like to release over this next couple of quarters.
And a lot of it does relate to brownfield activity so that would also be an indication that they want to proceed.
And there hasn't been a lot of projects released from Aramco certainly in the time that I've been with McDermott which is also getting close on two years.
So all indications would say that there are several projects there is a backlog of projects or bids now building up that you would expect Aramco to release at some point.
And just a comment on either that one project that had been in some of the industry discussions or the rags talking about being the size of major or mega would you anticipate that would potentially be part of the mix in the second half? Yeah.
So Brian you know we wouldn't comment on any specific bid and obviously we don't comment on any rumors with the rags.
Had to try.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Adam.
Good afternoon.
Can you give a little more color on the margins for the back half of the year? I think Jamie asked that question.
Can you just repeat why that's down a little bit versus the first half? Yeah Adam this is Stuart.
The back half of the year is impacted by the potential under-recovery of our fixed cost structure just as we look at the sequence of projects and the assets they will utilize and additionally the potential for weather to impact our marine utilization.
The under-absorption of fixed costs is what's dragging down the margins in the second half.
Okay.
And then can you provide any color on the loss from JVs going forward? Yeah sure.
So we have a number of joint ventures within McDermott.
They face the same market forces as the rest of the company.
We have been working extensively with all of our JV partners over the last two quarters to improve both the marketing opportunities and execution for those joint ventures.
So we would hope that as we progress over the next few quarters that those results would start to improve.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Connors from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> The number of bids in the less than $50 million size have been increasing over the past year year and a half.
Just wonder how much a factor of that is driven by more cost pressures versus the shift towards brownfield-type work.
I don't think there's any direct correlation to that increase.
I think also what you have in there is we are now bidding actively in the subsea tieback market where typically a lot of those projects fall into that category.
So there's an element of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I don't know if this was asked earlier but the CapEx was cut pretty drastically.
Just wondering if all of that was related to the DLV where it will be made up in the first quarter of 2016.
And on top of that how long do you think you guys can maintain the maintenance type CapEx levels at these such low levels versus history? Robert this is Stuart.
The drop in CapEx in 2015 is attributable to the DLV 2000 delay in construction.
So it's going to move all to the first quarter of 2016.
Today when we look at capital expenditure we set a very high hurdle rate and we also want to link any capital to a project that's just been awarded.
So we'll continue that approach as we move forward and we will continue to look to conserve cash as we manage our way through this lower for longer cycle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Sorry but just one last question.
In your supplemental information you've given a breakdown of your key projects and how they flow through 2016.
And it really suggests that in Asia-Pacific maybe apart from Ichthys there's very little ammo as of right now in terms of backlog.
So can you tell me how you're planning your resources in the area? Are you going to be moving some ships around to really account for that? And how we should think about the utilization as a consequence in Batam as well.
I think Tahira in Asia today obviously Ichthys is taking a large amount of resource.
Obviously the 108 is working on there as well as obviously a lot of personnel and Batam support.
But also remember we have the BSP contract which is essentially DB-30 plus one of our diving vessels the Emerald Sea.
And that's part of a longer-term agreement that we signed back last year which should be in the first year.
So we see obviously activity there to keep both those free-floating assets but also part of the yard busy moving forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much folks.
Thank you.
And I am showing no more questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Darcey Matthews.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for participating today.
We are actually going to be participating in several industry conferences.
We're going to be at the Pareto Conference in Norway on September 2 the Vertical Research Conference on the 9th in Connecticut the D.A.
Davidson Conference in San Francisco on the 10th and the Imperial Capital Conference in New York on the 17th of September.
We also hope that you will join us for our third quarter conference call which is currently scheduled for November 9 2015.
And then finally McDermott will be hosting an Investor Day in New York on November 17 the week after our third quarter earnings release.
A save the date invitation will be sent around shortly with more details and we hope to see you there or at one of our upcoming conferences over the next several months.
Again thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.