Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to McDermott Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darcey Matthews Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Great.
Thank you Sonja and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we are recording this call and that a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our third quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q we also filed today.
Also on the website is a presentation of our supplemental financial information that you can find in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's views as of today November 9 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2015 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
As you can see by our results McDermott reported another strong quarter of new awards and again demonstrated improved project execution.
Key to building our backlog were the new contract awards we received in our Middle East area including a lump-sum award in Saudi Arabia and awards with two repeat customers in Qatar.
New work won for the quarter totaled over $2.1 billion and represented one of the company's strongest periods over the past several years.
This quarter also represents the first time since the first quarter of 2012 that McDermott has substantially increased its backlog which is now over $4.4 billion as we head into the fourth quarter.
These awards and our ability to build backlog in a challenging macro environment are clear indications that the work the company has done on improving execution and enhanced customer engagement are continuing to generate tangible results.
As you'll remember in June McDermott was chosen by Saudi Aramco to by a participant in their new long-term agreement.
In September McDermott was awarded the first contract under the new framework agreement the largest contract in the history of our Middle East business.
The lump-sum award is a full-scale EPCI project covering jackets deck pipelines and other works in four fields offshore Saudi Arabia and is expected to utilize our specialized shallow-water installation fleet and fabrication yards in Dammam and Jebel Ali.
Work has already commenced on the project and is due to be completed in the second quarter of 2018.
In addition to this lump-sum award our Middle East area was also awarded two projects related to offshore fields in Qatar.
The first award was for a sizable brownfield contract by Qatar Petroleum for the EPCI of four well head jackets in the Bul-Hanine field.
The second award which we announced today relates to a large brownfield contract for RasGas for the EPCI of a pipeline project consisting of 74 miles of six-inch and eight-inch pipeline and topside modifications.
These awards reflect McDermott's ability to meet our customer's critical production and project requirements in conjunction with our unique brownfield capabilities.
Each of these new projects represents the second award from RasGas and Qatar Petroleum that McDermott has received during 2015.
The project execution of the two Qatar contracts is expected to continue through third quarter of 2017.
These three awards in addition to the other new work that the company has been awarded in 2015 add meaningfully to building our backlog for 2016 and 2017.
Now I'd like to provide an update on the execution of some of our key projects.
At our Altamira fabrication yard in Mexico the work on a 7 200 ton PB Litoral deck was completed and loaded out on schedule at the end of the quarter.
Offshore installation of the jacket and tripod structures was also finished in late September.
The deck float-over installation was completed in early October with the final hook-up commissioning and start-up now expected to be finalized during the first quarter of 2016.
We have worked extremely hard and implemented a variety of changes to ensure this project is executed to McDermott's global quality and safety standards.
And the PB Litoral project team has done just that achieving 2.9 million man hours without a lost time injury and meeting the September load-out date that was set over a year ago.
We are pleased to work with and be a strong partner to PEMEX as they and the country move forward with their plans for oil reform in the region.
We believe McDermott with our Altamira yard is well positioned to support the country in its local content requirements and we remain positive on the long-term market outlook in Mexico.
In Asia our Ichthys project continues to be on schedule achieving all of its milestones during the quarter.
We saw timely execution on the marine campaign from our third party subcontractor during the period.
McDermott's construction support vessel 108 arrived in the field at the end of June and successfully completed its first campaign for the project and is expected to back in the field in December.
On the fabrication side our yard in Batam has completed 90% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures commissioned for the project.
In addition all of the in-line structures required for pipelay at Ichthys have also been completed.
The engineering scope has been finished as had 80% of the procurement activities.
In addition the Project HSE performance remains strong achieving a milestone of over 14 million man hours without a lost time injury.
As we have mentioned in previous calls the national oil companies in particular our customer base in the Middle East continue to be public about maintaining their production levels and corresponding OPEC market share.
A majority of this work is in existing fields and is what we term as brownfield the enhancement modernization or improvement of existing fields.
In today's lower commodity price environment brownfield work represents one of the lowest cost ways to produce a new barrel of oil or cubic meter of gas.
So as we evaluate our pipeline of potential projects that we anticipate moving forward to final investment decision over the next 6 to 12 months we anticipate a majority of these projects will be in the Middle East and brownfield in nature.
In the Middle East area the company also has a long history of project execution and firsts in addition to local content capabilities and the appropriate fleet to support the required regional activity.
So relative to where we anticipate the near-term capital spend to occur we believe McDermott remains uniquely positioned to provide our clients with the right EPCI solution.
Offsetting the near term opportunities we see in our core Middle East area the overall macro commodity price environment continues to impact our broader client base.
The current market outlook indicates that the commodity price levels through this cycle will remain at lower levels for longer than originally anticipated resulting in even greater uncertainty about the timing of future projects.
With capital plans for 2016 being finalized customers continue to recycle reprioritize and defer work as they evaluate project economics.
Key for our customers to moving forward in this macro scenario is a combination of a new solution to drive down costs combined with increased confidence in project schedule and delivery.
McDermott and its joint venture company io consulting remain focused on working with clients to find the right solution that can be executed turned on schedule at a price that works in today's commodity price environment.
Before I turn the call over to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials I would like to highlight some of the additional health and safety milestones our people and our assets achieved during the quarter.
While I have already mentioned a couple in my project updates it is important to stress that health and safety is an ongoing focus for our company worldwide.
High quality safety standards are critical for our employees our customers and for the environments in which we operate.
Additionally I believe that a strong HSE performance is also a direct indication of how an organization is managing the execution and quality of its projects.
In our Middle East area our marine operations achieved a number of major safety milestones with one of the company's key vessels the DB27 achieving 12 million man-hours lost time injury free.
This is an important but often overlooked aspect of our industry.
McDermott is committed to making health and safety a priority for our people clients and local business communities and keeping our shareholders up-to-date on our continued execution success.
And now I will turn the call over to Stuart.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our third quarter financial results and the timing of our CapEx spend this year.
Then I will discuss our backlog and current bid pipeline.
Finally I will conclude with an update on our cost saving initiatives and guidance.
Before I get started today I wanted to mention our new reporting measures.
Going forward in addition to our GAAP reporting we'll also report certain of our adjusted financials net of one-time items to provide a clearer understanding of the underlying performance and drivers of our business.
To support our new reporting structure I would like to draw your attention to a press release and supplemental slide deck that detail the reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
Revenues for the third quarter were $805.9 million up $391 million from Q3 2014 revenues of $414.6 million and down $241 million from the extremely strong second quarter of 2015.
The key projects driving revenue were in our Asia and Middle East areas as well as the progress made on PB Litoral in Mexico.
In Asia at Ichthys we saw steady productivity from our major subcontractor on the marine campaign.
We also saw our vessel the CSV 108 in field successfully executing its first job.
For 2015 our subcontractor at Ichthys is the main driver of revenue recognition progress and is on an identifiable lump-sum fixed price work scope.
Also in our Asia area the DB30 and Emerald Sea completed the installation of approximately four miles of corrosion resistant alloy pipe link 16 miles of carbon steel pipe link and three miles of umbilical installation at our BSP project.
Pre-commissioning and tie-in activities also commenced in the field during the quarter.
In addition we had a strong quarter for revenue recognition from three of our larger projects in the Middle East including a cable-lay project and operational improvements in Saudi Arabia.
Adjusted operating income totaled $52.5 million during the quarter.
Excluding $6.3 million of restructuring expenses and $16.7 million for the settlement of the outstanding legal claims on the AT1 dispute referenced in the last 10-Q.
Operating income for the third quarter also was positively impacted by loss recovery in the PB Litoral project with a confirmed contract extension as well as the successful negotiation and conclusion of certain weather related change orders in the Middle East and marine utilization during the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter was $20.7 million compared to a use of cash $7.5 million for the second quarter of 2015 and a use of cash of $19.4 million in the prior year comparable quarter.
The improvement in the third quarter cash is mainly attributable to the final settlement and related collections on the Papa Terra project a project in the AEA segment which was completed in the second quarter of 2014.
Net interest expense during the third quarter totaled $13 million.
This included $18.6 million of gross interest expense capitalization of $5.4 million of interest for our remaining vessel under construction the DLV2000 and $0.2 million of interest income.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $4.6 million versus over absorbed direct operating expenses of $1.9 million during the second quarter.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
As a reminder we measure asset utilization in actual days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards each has a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
At our fabrication yards utilization in the Altamira yard declined over the quarter with the completion and sail-away of the PB Litoral deck.
The offshore fleet utilization had its second quarter in a row of over recovery at 118%.
As a majority of the offshore vessel fleet was active during the period.
Our subsea vessel utilization remained stable quarter-over-quarter with only the North Ocean 105 inactive during the quarter.
Going forward utilization for the remainder of the year is expected to decrease as the Marine fleet enters the cyclone weather season in Asia beginning of the high wind season in the Middle East as well as the North Ocean 105 waiting to commence the LLOG Otis campaign which starts early next year.
At the Altamira fabrication yard following the sail-away of the PB Litoral structures new project work is not scheduled to begin for the PEMEX Ayatsil-C jacket until the first quarter of 2016.
Third quarter net income was $3.7 million or $0.01 per fully diluted share and adjusted net income was $26.7 million or $0.09 per fully diluted share excluding restructuring charges and one-time charges related to the legal settlement.
In the prior year the third quarter net loss was $30.3 million or $0.13 per fully diluted share loss and the adjusted net loss was $25.5 million or $0.11 per fully diluted share excluding restructuring charges.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers related to our tangible equity unit or TEUs.
With the positive net income in the third quarter the dilution for the TEUs was included in our fully diluted share count adding an additional 41 million shares.
Moving to the balance sheet at the end of September we reported $767 million in cash and restricted cash a slight decline of approximately $4 million from the total cash balance in the second quarter.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $320 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $115 million at quarter end.
In October we increased commitments under our letter of credit facility by an additional $120 million increasing the capacity to $520 million.
This was our first venture back into the capital markets since April of 2014 and we were very pleased to have the support of our key banks as well as one new entrant into the facility.
The additional capacity will support McDermott's future bidding as we continue to focus on building backlog.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $18 million which includes $5.4 million of capitalized interest.
The key driver of our CapEx spend for 2015 is the timing of the delivery of our flagship vessel the DLV2000.
During the second quarter of 2015 the delivery of the vessel moved from the fourth quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016.
This quarter the timing of several DLV2000 payments including $22 million of planned 2015 CapEx spend also shifted into the first quarter of 2016 bringing the total DLV CapEx spend expected next year to approximately $180 million.
In addition to the shift in CapEx in the DLV2000 there has also been $13 million of cost savings on the vessel bringing the total expected spend on the vessel to approximately $432 million excluding capitalized interest.
As a result full year 2015 CapEx is expected to be in the range of $90 million to $100 million for the year including maintenance and project CapEx of $30 million to $40 million.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $22.6 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Also during the quarter we sanctioned the purchase of a vertical lay system for the CSV 108 for approximately $26 million.
We anticipate spending $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the remainder in 2016.
The additional spend for the new system has an expected payback of one year as we are able to utilize the CSV 108 in another phase of the Ichthys project thereby displacing the planned sub-contracting to a third-party vessel.
The additional spend for the lay system is included in the full-year CapEx guidance of $90 million to $100 million that I mentioned earlier.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $4.4 billion at quarter end becoming more weighted toward our offshore operations as the subsea work at Ichthys progresses and we continue to add shallow water brownfield work in the Middle East.
The current split of our third quarter backlog is 73% offshore and 27% subsea.
Bookings in the third quarter totaled $2.1 billion driven by the lump-sum award for Saudi Aramco two awards in Qatar as well as the $110 million of change orders on existing projects bringing the year-to-date change orders to $451 million representing 13% of the 2015 opening backlog.
Of the $4.4 billion of backlog $665 million is due to roll off in Q4 2015 $2.4 billion in 2016 $1 billion in 2017 and $400 million in 2018.
Our legacy loss project portfolio remains at three active projects representing a backlog of $317 million of which $93 million is scheduled to roll off in Q4 2015 $194 million is scheduled to roll off in 2016 and $30 million in 2017.
We continue to aggressively manage the downside risk of the portfolio.
As discussed earlier we saw the scheduled completion of the fabrication work on the PB Litoral structure one of the three active projects in a loss position with the completion of the commissioning now expected to be finished in the first quarter of 2016.
Our bids and change orders are standing at quarter end with $2.6 billion compared to $7.5 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Of these amounts approximately 50% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to offshore operations.
The reduction of approximately $5 billion was driven primarily by the receipt of $2 billion of new awards as well as the selection of our competitors on several major projects in the company's business development areas in the North Sea and Africa.
Our list of target projects totaled $16.6 billion as of the end of September increasing $3.1 billion with the addition of several major projects anticipated to be bid in the Middle East area over the next five quarters.
We remain pricing disciplined in our bidding for new awards and as a reminder targets for those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to McDermott or competitor in the next five quarters.
McDermott's bids and target pipeline consists of those opportunities where we firmly believe that we have a convincing competitive position through our assets local content or integrated EPCI solution.
Approximately 63% of the value of our target projects relates to our offshore operations.
As of the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $23.6 billion down slightly from the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown of our revenue pipeline by project type area work scope and other defining characteristics in our supplemental slide presentation located on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving on to our McDermott profitability initiative we now expect to exceed the originally anticipated $50 million of in-year cash savings and generate over $100 million in 2015 excluding restructuring charges.
The company has been able to implement the changes necessary to the overall cost structure and address both our fixed and variable costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
Key to exceeding our original target has been the continued right-sizing of the organization quicker returns on the centralization of functions our strategic sourcing initiatives hybrid crewing initiatives and other general policy changes the company has implemented.
Specifically during the quarter we rolled out a hybrid crewing model in which McDermott outsourced the non-technical marine crews on the majority of our vessel fleet.
We also began the process of relocating our Canadian marine fleet office to Houston from Halifax and transferring the marine crews to international contracts based out of Dubai.
Additionally the company made the decision to relocate our Asia headquarters from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur to take advantage of more favorable cost structure and to create a greater in country presence in Malaysia for some of our key customers.
This move is expected to be completed during the first half of 2016.
Several frame agreements were also negotiated with suppliers to leverage the company's global purchasing power.
In addition to the 2015 in-year cash savings McDermott expects to generate an additional $50 million of annualized savings in 2016.
Our restructuring charges for the third quarter were $6.3 million.
In 2014 the McDermott's leadership made the critical business decision ahead of the current macro environment to restructure our organization and we believe that decision has positioned McDermott well to manage through the current cycle and ensure the company remains competitive.
Finally we've previously provided 2015 guidance on our August 8 earnings conference call and in our accompanying supplemental slide deck.
Other than the year-end 2015 cap spend which I've previously mentioned during the call and which subsequently increases our 2015 year-end cash numbers to $760 million to $780 million the 2015 guidance given in connection with our second quarter call remains unchanged.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for some closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
As I've said at the start of the call it was a strong quarter for McDermott in terms of winning new awards and executing on our existing portfolio of projects.
Our active engagement with our customers and our growing reputation continues to generate new awards and more importantly repeat work from our existing clients.
We have been able to significantly add to our 2016 backlog this quarter as well as start to build the foundation for the subsequent years.
Internally we are actively managing our liquidity and costs our MPI program has been a success generating more than double our anticipated in-year cash savings for 2015.
By combining right-sizing centralization and a series of cost saving initiatives we believe we have established a solid foundation from which McDermott can manage its business and compete successfully in the current environment.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I wonder Stuart maybe if you could just remind us what you're using for the year-to-date that compares to the $50 million to $70 million of full year operating income.
It seems like with the strong performance that you had there in the quarter and year-to-date you're pulling some losses in the fourth quarter.
So I just want to confirm that I have those numbers right and to understand the dynamics a bit – I know you mentioned utilization slowing in the fourth quarter.
Yeah that's correct Steven.
We're using the GAAP measure or the unadjusted operating income as we give guidance.
So it doesn't include the add-backs that we mentioned during the quarter.
And because of that the fourth quarter we're looking at a loss position given the utilization profile of some of the fixed assets.
Okay.
So about $77.7 million that's the number for year-to-date? Yes that's correct Steven.
Okay.
David this is the highest level of forward year backlog visibility you've had since around 2011.
And with that in mind do you feel that you've got visibility to achieving a normalized level of earnings at some point over the next 12 to 18 months? And I guess I'm using a definition of normalized it would be somewhere around say $3 billion to $4 billion of revenues and 5% to 10% operating margins which seems to be kind of a historical level that was pretty achievable.
I would say Steven firstly the – I would say it's been a good quarter in terms of the order intake and also predominately it's being in the Middle East where I feel that we have made a lot of great progress in terms of relationships with those customers and getting our position – getting ourselves into a strong position.
I think with the current macro environment and I talked about it earlier in the call is that whilst we have very good visibility of what's happening in the Middle East and not only with Aramco but very pleased today to announce another award with RasGas.
It's very difficult to predict what else is happening in the other parts of the world.
So too early to say but what I would say is that from an operational and executional execution aspect I think we've also made significant progress with this organization with the team that we have with the additions that we've made to the team that we're certainly putting together a solid foundation that will allow us to compete in the market moving forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> First question given the amount you've booked and what you've indicated on your bond rate in the 10-Q it seems like we should be moving to sort of flattish to growth on the revenue side into next year.
Could you provide some more color on why that would not happen? Tahira I'll start the answer and I'll let Stuart to add on.
I think obviously it has been a very good quarter in terms of order intake but I think as what we've said before there's a lot of volatility and let's say lumpiness in terms of awards and even trying to predict when awards will occur.
So I think it's early to say that growth – I think that what you can say is that we are getting ourselves back on track with what's happening in the Middle East we're getting ourselves back on track and that we're seeing more awards coming from Aramco and Qatar with both QP and RasGas.
But I think that whilst we're in this macro environment and I think I said it earlier there isn't sufficient visibility to say that we're certainly moving into growth mode but obviously we are very happy with what was awarded to us during the third quarter.
Stuart? Thanks David.
Yes and Tahira I think we've still got Q4 to go to look for some bookings that will give us the final backlog for 2016.
So I think it's a little bit early to indicate growth for next year.
However at our investor day that we're holding next week we will be outlining our current thoughts on 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
Thank you very much on that.
And as a follow up if I look at the profile of where your targets and focus on this is it seems that even though it's a little on the earlier side profile wise it seems to be more economical more brownfields more sort of offshore versus subsea.
Could you give us an idea of the competitive dynamics there going forward? Is this in your sweet spot? Or is this more in competitive areas versus what we've seen this year? Well I think if we start in the Middle East obviously the agreement that we have with Aramco it's public that there are four competitors.
So as we bid we will compete against the other three but obviously we feel amongst those four is that we do have a very good position both from our assets that we have there the people that we have the local content that we have.
So we feel that we've got a lot of experience that we can fuel on to be successful.
I think I spoke on the last call that we were anticipating an uptake in activity in Qatar and again it's an area whereby if you look at the capabilities you have to be capable to deliver full EPCI and predominately in shallow water.
So the competitive landscape is different from what you would see certainly in the deepwater area.
Now the deepwater market obviously in this kind of macro environment is being heavily impacted and so the competitors we see there are different from what we see in the Middle East and obviously today a very competitive area.
We have had as you've seen some successes and we continue to bid in that area with some prospects that will come up in the Gulf of Mexico in the subsea tieback area some potential opportunities in Africa and in India and one or two in Asia.
So we still see opportunities there but clearly the market is impacted by this macro environment and we do live in a very competitive world.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
Just want to dig into your cash generation capabilities in the second half of the year.
Can you just talk about how much the Papa Terra collection contributed? And then how to think about the fourth quarter? Yeah sure.
So in the third quarter we did receive approximately $60 million for settlement for the Papa Terra project.
And as we look into the fourth quarter we are expecting some advanced progress payments on some of the new orders that we have booked in the third quarter so we are expecting our cash flow from operations to be positive in the last quarter of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just given some of the reports in the news about a slowdown in project awards in the Middle East can you speak to what if any declines you're seeing in the bidding environment? Yeah.
I mean I also read the same press that you read and we read about slow down on awards.
I'll be honest from our side we haven't seen that and you can see what's happening in our third quarter in terms of awards in which we've been successful.
But I would also add that today our level of bidding activity in the Middle East remains robust and certainly not seeing any slow down on any bidding activity.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
I'll jump back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good evening.
I guess two questions.
One I guess as you look out – I guess in the more recent quarter as you look out to 2016 I guess the other side of being in this type of market where commodity prices are down and you're in a deflationary cost environment as a fixed price contractor sometimes there are opportunities for you guys to benefit.
So is there any of that that could potentially help boost your profitability? Or has it been on procurement or on labor? Or are customers getting whatever potential cost pressures on the downward side back? And then my second question you did cite potential for you didn't want to answer the revenue question because you're waiting to see what bookings could be in the fourth quarter.
Is there anything materially large in the fourth quarter that could potentially hit? And then – I guess that's it for right now.
Hi Jamie.
It's Stuart.
Hi.
Let me take the supply chain question first.
So today when we are bidding for new contracts there's a significant focus by the customer on ensuring that the supply chain deflation is passed through to them.
Likewise when we are negotiating any change orders on existing scope there is a significant focus on supply chain deflation being passed to the customer.
That being said as we progress with our profitability initiative in setting up global agreements and leveraging and organizing our spend we are trying to capture some of those savings for McDermott albeit I would say that's a lower percentage versus the amount that's passed through to our customers.
And then on the bookings yes we still have an active set of bids and change orders out there for the fourth quarter.
I would say like we've always said in 2015 the timing of those awards remains the most volatile part of our business and as we are confident in our value proposition on those orders we are not yet in a position to estimate how much order intake we'll have in the fourth quarter.
All righty.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Our next question comes from Martin Malloy of Johnson Rice.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Wanted to ask kind of a big picture question as you look out to 2016 with your discussions with customers are you seeing them maybe begin to start to take a look at moving forward on development projects given the amount that the floating drilling rig rates have fallen lower service and equipment costs? And I don't know if you can tie that in with what you're doing with the io venture? I don't think there is any strong indication Marty that things are starting to change.
Certainly there's a little bit more dialog around looking at projects of fairly early stage.
And so with our io organization we're having some dialog with certain customers.
I think clearly offshore drill rig rates have come down over the last year and generally the supply chain has come down and costs.
So there are some dialogs but I wouldn't say there's been any significant change that would say we'll start to see a lot of projects moving forward.
I was saying that again you've got to look at the market differently whether you're talking to the super majors the independents and the national oil companies.
And I would say out of the group the most active at this time are the national oil companies that we're having dialog on certain prospects moving ahead at some point although at early stages.
But I would say to answer your question haven't seen anything in the market that would indicate any change to the status that we've had through 2015 of the slowdown.
Okay.
And is there an update you can give us in terms of the customer interests in the DLV2000 and if you've started bidding it on projects? Yeah.
So the DLV2000 we're looking at the one opportunity of putting the vessel to work.
I can also say that we have a number of bids that we're actively working on today.
We have some bids where checks are already submitted and which award or selection should be over this next coming months.
Certainly we've had an active period of bidding for this particular asset.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Yeah hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions.
Just a point of clarification on the restructuring savings so you have $100 million of cost saves this year.
I assume you're not recognizing that entire $100 million this year; some of it will probably be more anniversaried next year.
So I'm just trying to get clarity.
Is there going to be some carry-over from the $100 million this year and then you're expecting an additional $50 million on top of that or is the $50 million carry – capsulating some of the carry-over from this year? Hi Brian it's Stuart.
So the $100 million we mentioned for 2015 was cash savings are in year.
Now not all of that is going to flow through to the profit and loss given some of it is subject to a percentage of completion in our projects.
And then next year we are seeing that we will be able to generate an additional $50 million of in-year cash savings on top of the previous $100 million target.
Understood.
Great.
And separately on the capitalized interest components can you kind of accurately tell how much incremental you're going to be recognizing in the P&amp;L in 2016 at this point? Yes because the capitalized interest is occurring on the DLV2000 and we expect that to be delivered at the end of the first quarter.
We are expecting quite a step up in the interest charge in the P&amp;L next year.
As you saw from the third quarter results today we were capitalizing $5 million of interest; we had $18 million of gross.
So after Q1 next year you would expect the $18 million of gross to stay in the P&amp;L.
Okay.
And just one last one.
Just on the balance sheet the unbilled receivables actually were up quite a bit in the third quarter up almost 40% year-to-date and up quite a bit sequentially even.
Can you just talk to what is that reflecting? That would be helpful.
Thanks.
Absolutely.
When you look at our working capital in the balance sheet on the asset side you're seeing quite an increase year-to-date on our contracts in-progress.
That's really driven by our Middle East business and our BSP project in Asia.
In the Middle East we are working through a number of change orders with the customers and when those get agreed then we will be able to agree billings and also cash collection.
BSP had a very very active quarter in Q3 so we did a lot of kind of work there that we'll bill out and collect in the fourth quarter.
And then on the other side of the balance sheet you also see a big drop off this year in our advanced billings.
And those advanced billings really relate to our Ichthys project and also our PB Litoral project.
On the contracts in progress are any of those being disputed or is that just fairly run rate business? All of that is run rate business and we do not recognize any potential change orders in our P&amp;L and therefore our balance sheet unless we have a demonstrated track record with the customer and a sound contractual basis to recognize them.
In the event there is a dispute on the presented change order we would then move that to a formal claim.
And at the end of the third quarter 2015 we only had $9 million of claims recognized on our balance sheet.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet of Alembic Global.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob.
Thanks for taking our question and congratulations on a great quarter.
I was hoping you guys could give a little bit more detail just an update into your head count reductions? Yeah this is Stuart.
So absolutely.
So on our head count reductions there's really as you've seen our head count dropped this year really driven by two factors.
Firstly the project workload as we sequence within projects.
Our variable work force that would be our craft labor or some of our project-specific labor we would release when the project is finished if there's not a new project to move on to.
And then there's the profitability initiative head count reductions that we've made.
We've made in excess of 1 000 head reductions this year with MPI related to rightsizing centralization and other initiatives.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then just a quick update.
I know you touched on it a little bit before but on the lost projects could you just give a little bit more detail into gross margins for the year? And with change orders have any of them been accretive at any point? Yes.
So at the end of the third quarter 2015 we have $317 million of backlog on the lost projects.
Year-to-date 2015 on the three active projects that we have they have been accretive to approximately $28 million to gross profit.
So we've successfully either negotiated change orders or achieved other cost recovery or contract extension to approximately $28 million.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
I'll jump back into the queue.
Our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson of Howard Weil.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Just wanted to understand with Ichthys mainly run off at this point in terms of fabrication yard utilization and where we stand today especially on the year-over-year comparison in terms of utilization want to be wary.
Is there anything within the system at these utilization levels where you start running into issues with managing strictly around variable cost and something in maybe one of the yards within the system bites a little bit harder.
Just wanted to make sure there wasn't something we need to – kind of be a little more wary of at the yard level.
This is Stuart Blake.
So when we're specifically talking about Batam yes the Ichthys workload completes toward the end of the fourth quarter.
However you will notice in our supplemental deck we do include a fabrication only project that's going into Batam that was awarded in the third quarter of 2015 that is producing LNG modules for the Yamal project.
So this is part of our fabrication only strategy that we started in the earlier part of the year where we're looking to try and provide certain of our yards base load work moving through this cycle.
So we would hope that that would absorb a significant amount of our both fixed cost base going into 2016.
And with everything else you see at least today Batam would have been the one place that it was a little positively closer to challenging that – the ability to manage that cost base? That's correct yes.
You still get around – across the rest of the enterprise.
That's another way of asking.
Okay.
And then just I apologize for coming in late here.
Stuart did you give an absorption number? Or I guess in this case perhaps a plus for the quarter on the vessel side? We gave a total fixed cost net absorption number for the quarter and this quarter we were slightly under absorbed by about $5 million.
Thanks.
I apologize for that.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Connors of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
I sort of wanted to touch up – you got into it a little bit on the working capital discussion.
But we've also been reading some stories out there that some of the Middle East NOCs have been clamping it a little bit down on their contractors in terms of terms and conditions.
And can you just tell us what you're seeing and what you're hearing out there? Have down payment structures changed at all particularly I guess the likes of Aramco if you can discuss? Let me just – I'll just clear it and I'll let Stuart to get into more of the details.
But contrary to what we've also heard is that working in the Middle East is we haven't seen any structural change of how we are working with the customers both in terms of negotiating terms and conditions or negotiating change orders.
So we haven't seen any significant change of what's been happening in the past.
Stuart you want to add to that? Absolutely.
So on working capital specifically in Saudi Arabia in the new long-term agreement there was a subtle change to the procurement payment schedule.
And that is now driven by receipt of materials in country as opposed to our yard in Jebel Ali.
However we are allowed to receive advance payments if we post advance payment guarantees for that amount.
So we're able to manage that change in contracting terms.
In other parts of the Middle East the working capital parts of the contract remain stable as from the last couple of years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
I'm sorry I missed it but can you touch up on what the bids outstanding was again? Was it $2.6 billion? And if could ask a question related to the DLV2000.
You mentioned you are bidding that vessel out already but does it need to go through trials and a sort of commissioning phase before we see an actual award and when you expect that to occur? Yes this is Stuart.
Our bids outstanding at the end of the third quarter were slightly above $2 billion.
With the DLV2000 we expect delivery at the end of the first quarter.
That delivery includes the basic sea trials performed by the building contractor which is Keppel.
Post-receipt we will put the vessel through pipe lay trials and some other operational aspects specific to the equipment at which point we will deem it in service.
As David has said we've always actively looked to deploy the vessel either in a contract that we have or on a new contract that we're currently bidding.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But no timeline or you're not willing to discuss this post-receipt/pipe lay trials when those are complete? So the vessel is due to go in service in the middle of the second quarter next year and we are not yet in a position to release what the first project will be for the vessel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this concludes our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back to Darcey Matthews for any further remarks.
Thank you Sonja and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As Stuart mentioned next Tuesday on November 17 McDermott will be hosting its 2015 Investor Day which will also be webcast live.
The link to the webcast and a copy of the presentations will be available on our website in the Investor Relations section next week.
And we look forward to seeing you there or having you join us on the webcast.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.