Good morning everyone.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation’s Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host for today John Colglazier Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
We are glad you could join us today for Anadarko’s third quarter 2013 conference call.
And before we begin I would like to introduce our newest member of Investor Relations team Jeremy Smith who recently moved over from our Corporate Development team.
Jeremy will take the place of Brian Cook who is rotated to another assignment within the company.
I would also like to remind you that today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A number of factors could cause results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
So we encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our website and attached to last night’s earnings release.
And I hope you have had time to review the comprehensive details in our 10-Q our earnings release and the quarterly operations report which are all available on the website.
At this time I will turn the call over to Al Walker.
And following his prepared remarks we will open up the calls for questions with Al and our executive team.
Al?  Thanks John and good morning.
On this morning’s call I would like to do several things.
First I would like to highlight the achievements in the quarter; second discuss what our U.S.
onshore organization has been accomplishing; and third update you on the recent portfolio management achievements.
For the quarter first we achieved record U.S.
onshore sales volumes which included a 25 000 barrel a day increase in liquids year-over-year while more than doubling our sales volume in the horizontal play in Wattenberg of the same period a year ago.
All of this led to a very exciting quarter as it relates to our initial results in the emerging Wolfcamp shale play.
Second our successful achievements this year include advancements of both the Lucius and El Merk facilities which are great examples of one of Anadarko’s core competencies project management.
The exceptional performance continuing to ramp at the El Merk facilities and associated fields gives us confidence in delivering high margin oil growth of more than 35% from this project in 2014.
Moving to the U.S.
onshore sales volume growth over the last three years has been both exceptional self-funded.
Since 2010 our U.S.
organization has worked to achieve sales volumes a 190 000 BOE per day while improving our product mix.
We achieved this through directing capital the areas that enabled us to double oil volumes from 50 000 barrels a day to approximately 100 000 barrels a day.
During the same time period we achieved industry leading drilling and completion metric while lowering our per unit operating cost by 13% to just above $3 per BOE this year and firmly establishing a reputation as one of the lowest cost operators in the U.S.
Before discussing our portfolio of management progress I like to point out our continued 70% plus deep water exploration and praise the success rate which continues to differentiate Anadarko and create tremendous value.
As for our (indiscernible) portfolio in 2013 we have announced or closed monetization’s totaling approximately $4 billion the hallmark transaction being the announced $2.64 billion all cash Mozambique sell down was expected to close in the next few months.
We have also consolidated positions and areas where we have debt and scale and can apply operating efficiencies to enhance returns.
For example we closed the small acquisition in the Moxa [ph] area of Wyoming where we have operations and then the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we built an even stronger position in the emerging Shenandoah Basin.
With Shenandoah Basin area you’ve heard us talk a lot about a very large new area about more than doubling our efforts there we have working interest in the Coronado discovery which increases our potential in the future.
We will also assume operatorship in the Coronado after the next appraisal well all of which gives us more control over what we think is a very exciting area.
Portfolio achievements include recently announced deals such as the Wattenberg Property Exchange.
This trade as you’ve heard from us adds tremendous value to the field by concentrating our operated acreage position and our liquids rich (indiscernible) of the field.
We are also retained all of the 21 000 fee mineral acres in the land grab and this will benefit not only ourselves but our trade partners accelerated activity we believe in the near future as well as each well drilled provides Anadarko with before tax present value of that $2.5 million with no capital investment.
This is a tremendous value pick-up for Anadarko.
We expect this trade to enable us to further improve our cost structure and enhance returns while leveraging infrastructure avoiding the cost of expansions to the North-East.
As you can see in the map it illustrates the key backbone elements of our infrastructure including oil natural gas compression and water distribution assets.
These provide greater economies of scale and lower cost as well as avoiding CapEx more than ever before.
As I mentioned we have more than doubled our sales volume from the Wattenberg Horizontal program over this time last year from 26 000 BOEs per day to 56 500 BOEs per day and we continue to generate rates of return in excess of a 100%.
This rapid expansion of the horizontal production has resulted in high line pressures limiting our near term ability to reach the overall productive capacities of the field.
The impacts for the unprecedented floods that occurred in September have temporarily compounded the issue forcing us to shed in vertical wells and delaying our ability to move heavy equipment necessary to complete the planned infrastructure expansions.
As we announced in October this is expected to impact our full year sales volumes by reducing the top-end of guidance by 2.5 million BOE.
While the storms in Colorado led to flooding of epic proportions it was matched by an equally impressive reaction to an engagement by our people.
I could not be prouder of the men and women who responded to the flooding.
Through their humanitarian efforts and strict adherence to environmental and safety practices our employees and contractors stepped up in a big way to help their communities and minimize any impacts.
Looking ahead we plan to utilize 13 rigs focused in our core areas of Wattenberg field and realize the benefit of the startups of the Lancaster plant and the Front Range pipeline early next year.
We’re also encouraged by the progress of the U.S.
onshore exploration program and I particularly want to highlight the strong early results achieved in the Wolfcamp shale in the Delaware basin.
We successfully evaluated six wells they are more than 15 miles apart each having gross processed IP rates of between 1000 and 1600 BOE per day and just as important with a 70% percent oil cut.
The Wolfcamp formation is more than 1 500 feet thick across most of our 600 000 gross acres with multiple benches to test.
In case you are new to Anadarko this time last year we had no rigs running in the Wolfcamp.
Now with six rigs we are evaluating both the aerial and the vertical extent of this play.
By the time we hold our investor conference early next year we expect to be able to provide a resource range for the Wolfcamp and updated plans for other opportunities that are under evaluation.
From a financial perspective our balance sheet remains strong and which was most recently reflected on Moody’s upgrade to a positive outlook.
Our net to adjusted capitalization ratio at 30% is right in the middle of our targeted range.
Should our sell down in Mozambique close is expected this net debt to cap metric should move to the lower end of our targeted debt range at that time.
Overall we are delivering growth in value through the portfolio as we advance our strategy on multiple fronts.
We are very pleased with the depth of our asset base and its ability to absorb the temporary weather-related impacts in the U.S.
and still remain within our previously provided full year guidance range for both sale volumes and capital.
You continue to see us carryout an active exploration program while focusing on value acceleration and resource conversion going forward.
And to that point as previously announced next year we planned to use a portion of net proceeds from the Mozambique transaction to bolster the short and intermediate term oil and liquids opportunities in the portfolio.
Our objective with this capital development will be to further acceleration cash flow growth with attractive wellhead margins.
And as you can see and expect we will continue evaluate other steps to return incremental value to our shareholders.
With that operator would you please open the line for questions? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
Al I was wondering if you could share with us if you are willing what the lateral links and number stages are at cliché [ph] design is like for those of Delaware Basin and Wolfcamp wells?  Well I absolutely will be happy to probably let Chuck Meloy go into a little more detail but I think as you have heard from my prepared comments as well as you heard comments we have made we are very excited what could turn out to be the third leg of our liquids and oil capabilities onshore in the U.S.
But Chuck why don’t you handle if you don’t mind the questions specifically?  Yes Charles.
Right now we are in the I would call the lineation exploration type mode where we are evaluating the acreage position.
We have very large acreage position over 600 000.
And effectively we have drilled four sections out of those 600 000 positions.
So we are still delineating.
We really haven’t gone to manufacturing mode.
And while we are delineating what we are essentially doing is drilling laterals that are about 5 000 feet putting around 15 stages on each of them and that will give us an idea of the prospectivity of the area.
And so far we have very good success in each of those wells.
If you look at the operating report you can see the 30-day average for each of the wells and they are all I can say average around 750 which for these shorter laterals that don’t have a whole lot of stages it’s a really good result and is indicative of the opportunity that we see out there.
So as we have got a little deeper into this and others have drilled in and around our acreage position we are getting more and more excited of this opportunity.
Got it.
And Chuck I think you may have just touched on something that Al mentioned in his prepared remarks that if you have done these six wells on just four sections presumably you have – you are not all in the same you have tried a few different benches in the Wolfcamp would that be correct?  In our – in the Delaware Basin particularly in our acreage we see four opportunities.
The nomenclatures are a little different from the Midland Basin so folks get confused but let’s just say there is four benches and we work primarily on the second bench which they call the A in the Midland Basin and that’s been particularly good to us.
And now we are trying the lower fourth bench in one of the wells and the early returns on that look really good as well.
Got it.
And then the one quick follow-up I was wondering if you guys could offer some commentary on the (indiscernible) wells on your operations update you said that you saw some hydrocarbon shows but a tight reservoir – but that you had some encouragement there and no wonder if there is anything you could add to that?  Yes Charles this is Bob.
We did like what we saw there.
Of course we didn’t have a discovery but we drilled the two wells in the Canyon got an awful lot of information from both of those for very very large acreage position can both go particularly we found a very interesting thick sand package and at the location that we founded it was very deeply buried and so we’re now in the process of looking for where that sand package maybe in a traffic configuration with much less overburden so that we could expect much better reservoir quality and we anticipate further activity in Kenya in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just to clarify on the comments you made on the Wolfcamp you said that most of your well targeted the second bench you’re drilling the fourth now off those six wells have all those tested the second bench at this point?  Yeah each of one of is going through the second bench or work.
We’re testing the two different I think the important thing here is you know this section in the Delaware basin is around 1500 foo thick and so it was currently targeting three different four different sections as our prospectivity tested to.
So we have a lot of work to do we’re going to be testing the other two and we’re going to be testing the Earl extend [ph] and also looking at some other prospectivity that we see.
So we’re just not starting that work and you know I guess with the kind of things that we have done in the past at Wattenberg and Maverick and Marcellus you know this will show the early returns and we have a lot of neighbors also doing the same things we’re getting a lot of information.
And remind me on that acreage you all owned some of the mineral rights or all the mineral rights on this stuff and is there any HBP issues down to that fourth bench or can you basically develop it the way you want to versus being kind of you don’t need to drill the deepest to hold all the stuff above it?  We have to maintain our leases but the whole bunch of it is held by production as well as we have done have some mineral rights and our net positions are around 330 000 acres out of the 600 000.
And then shifting a little bit to the guidance that you’re all about there looks like volume metrics are pretty much in-line but it does you know appear a bit more gassy and it looks like some of it might be related to maybe you know timing of liftings in Algeria and can you talk if there is like you know an under lift that changes sometime in the first part of the year and just kind of address you know the more gassy nature that guidance at this point?  This Jim and let me just start with the ramp up that we have had with our El Merk Facility.
As Al mentioned we’re very excited about the progress made with El Merk and that we have brought on the first two oil trains in there and their performance marks that we’ve designed for.
We have four of the El Merk fields currently feeding this facility but we’re in the process of commissioning the last train which is the NGL train we will be doing that this quarter.
Recently we’re out celebrating the success of the contractors and the partners and the government official of this facility and it's up and running very well.
So as we move towards the end of the year in commissioning this final train we will be building inventory so it's really a timing of tanker liftings and we will have about 1.5 million barrels towards the end of the year.
Okay so should we expect a bigger lifting in early 2014 to make up for that?  Yeah.
We don’t have our budget finalized yet I think that the full year benefit will get some ramped El Merk project.
We should see our volumes grow about 20 000 barrels a day year-over-year in Algeria.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo with TPH.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more clarity on your Marcellus drilling plans as we head into year-end and then moving into 2014 and how that may rank in terms of returns versus your liquids drilling?  What we have been doing on the Marcellus you know the thing has grown tremendously we’re pushing over 2 Bcf now from the JV area that we have and so our volumes have grown substantially but during that same time frame we have been solely reducing rig count to accommodate the oversupply gas up in that area and the markets and so we have gone from around nine rigs back a couple of years ago to three currently and we are probably headed down as we go into 2014 and until the gas supply situation balances there.
While we are drilling we are still getting in the order of 30% rate of returns and those are good economics but we actually have better economics when you look at some of the old plays that we are in.
And so as the opportunity presents itself we are typically moving capital out of the Marcellus and into the oilier plays.
Matt it’s Al.
If I could add to that I think for a company that has a lot of options where we can put capital at some point the Marcellus will be a place we come back to as market as they typically do over time rebalance and you have some equilibrium.
So well I think industry generally likes what we have seen happened in the Marcellus.
Today the rates of return that we can achieve do not allow us to spend a lot of capital there versus other places.
In fact given our marketing efforts to get the gas out and not being burdened by gathering in transportation fess that actually give us even less at the wellhead.
The rates of returns that we are achieving are about as good as I think industry can expect out of the dry gas portion of the play.
And my guess is you are going to continue to see sequential declines by industry there.
And certainly as you heard from Chuck we are not going to be running the rigs that we were running a few years ago by any means.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And the just a second question on kind of the Wattenberg following the recent asset swap I was just curious if you could provide a little bit of color in terms of some of the downspacing tests that you have been doing in the play? And then with each the asset transaction you have been able to execute on how that may ultimately affect some of the longer lateral wells you are drilling in 2014 and 2015 and how that may – that program may progress over time?  Hey Matt this is Chucky and I am happy to talk about this is the deciding opportunity for Anadarko.
It’s very unusual that you could pull off the trade like this and I’d like to congratulate our counterparties well because I think this is a huge value uplift for the field.
It concentrates our operations.
And what we can do with that is as the math that was in Al’s presentation you see we spend a lot of money and lot of time really building up the backbone infrastructure and the proportionate field that we (indiscernible) in the trade.
And so the real opportunity here is to leverage that backbone to use it more often and not have to extend it up to the Northeast to catch sections here and there.
And so this opportunity we are very concentrated position where we have all the necessary requisite infrastructure to execute on our program.
We can take an already very efficient machine manufacturing machine and even dial it up a little faster and at a lower cost.
We also avoid cost of that expansion into the Northeast section.
So the whole thing will work through our advantage.
It improves our economics.
We think it adds a couple of 100 wells to our inventory as well as we drill wells because we have larger concentration of mineral interest and working interest in the area.
What we drill will be at a higher working interest for the effort that we put out to drill wells.
We have 13 rigs in Wattenberg.
We will receive more and more of the benefit net to Anadarko.
Matt I think that when you think about the fact we can grow volumes reduce cost and avoid capital it really does give us quite the (indiscernible).
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And just my last question you guys have a very valuable royalty position in the Niobrara and around the Wattenberg area is that something that may ever be kind of broken out from the company and put into a separate vehicle just to kind of given what looks to be kind of an underappreciated valuation by the market?  Matt I think we probably have been as aggressive as anybody looking for ways on lot values.
So I don’t want to say we would never do it but a wise person in the oil and gas business only one time there is one thing you never do and you never sell mineral interest.
And if there is a vehicle by which we could do something today that I haven’t seen I am certainly open to it and I am sure Bob Gwin our Chief Financial Officer has looked at a number of these things but I think when you look at the rates of return we are getting in the field and the way in which we manage our midstream business I am not sure that the mineral interest is getting off in the value equation here.
Pickering Holt</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Can you guys just talk about your oil growth in the U.S.
there has been some concerns at least from some of the clients I talked to about the potential to keep the trajectory up but I know there is a hiccup in the Wattenberg can you just talk about that going forward?  I will get Chuck get started on that and I’ll have some comments as well.
Okay.
The oil volumes as you saw in the presentation that Al gave has grown 25% year-over-year in the U.S.
on-shore and that’s being driven by the Maverick Eagle Ford assets as well as Wattenberg.
You know Wattenberg is particularly the horizontal program it has continued to deliver incredible growth year-over-year it's we have doubled the production and it's delivering a 100% rate of returns.
The issue I think that people see is the field performance the overall field performance and that’s really best understood if you take a look at page four and five of the operating report you can see the oil volumes grew the oil and the NGL volumes.
We are rejecting ethane this year so this is oil and the propane plus [ph] grew 25% while our gas line were flat.
And so that the gas being flat is essentially just a temporary issue with regard to the systems full.
We can’t jam anymore gas into it but what’s happening is as we’re drilling these horizontal wells we’re getting better and better wells their yields are higher so if you just do the math on the ops report the gas is flat and the (indiscernible) are up 25% so these horizontal wells are really increasing the role and as we get the additional infrastructure like the one where GT (indiscernible) additional compression and Lancaster plant in service you will see that the gas capacity come up and within these great yields from the horizontal wells will deliver more and more.
We did have a setback the setback we were in the process of getting these facilities installed and online and you know the plug [ph] satisfactory a couple of months and we’re still feeling the impacts of it.
We saw 250 wells offline and we’re going back and reconstructing roads and paths and that type of thing but this will pass.
I mean this is all temporary the wells are doing fantastic and we’re seeing great results from our program and we continue to do field test to decide exactly what our full development plan is.
We’re in the order of about a 10% through the development of Wattenberg.
So there is a lot of good things to come and you know on a well by well basis the most recent wells are some of the very best we have drilled so I’m excited about how this thing is going and I’m excited about the future and we got to get through this little bump and every now and then we throw a curve ball with the flood the diving guys up there have just done a fantastic job working their way through it and you know within few months we will be back on track and this thing will grow and as soon as we get the gas outlet the rest of it will come along with it.
They are going out ahead through this I think we may have people they are asking you questions I think it simply is not a reservoir issue it's just an evacuation and mid-stream issue for us.
So obviously Mother Nature didn’t help us in any of this fall but Mother Nature side I think we understand how to handle these evacuation issues be able to get our yields up and be able to process at a greater capacity so that our drilling activity as I mentioned will go up next year with the rig count.
So again it's not a reservoir performance issue if that was the case I think that would be a bigger concern.
And just in the Rockies for a bit can you talk and I apologize Al I missed some of your opening comments but can you talk about the MOX acquisition and then nitpicking a little bit but you have another category for the rig count and the Rockies it shows three rigs.
Yeah we can talk (indiscernible) will add in for us that really gave us some operating efficiencies in an area that was dazzled with a lot of agreements.
So Chuck can go onto a little bit of detail there but it helps us in a lot of way operating efficiencies one and overtime you’re going to see our ability to do some things now that we own it or so rather than having a partner in order to benefit of our own performance.
I think Al covered it's essentially a little bolt-on where and there was another operating field.
We managed to attract a deal with them.
Our expectation because we have a little better economies of scale.
We can substantially reduce the overall operating cost of the field and it analyzed a lot of locations that we are essentially landlocked because of the different agreements between parties and so all that gets wiped out.
It’s the onshore position that we have the land grant-ins that we recover a mineral position the rights to access to those mineral positions.
So at the end of the day it will be a big opportunity to us and I think we will make a good return just by consolidating still reducing the cost and improving the performance of the base case.
And David just to add if I could one other thing the economies of scale here coupled with efficiencies that we enjoy we typically were standing out of non-operated wells.
So if a well was being proposed even with the mineral interest it isn’t typically gets drilled at the same cost as we would drill it was substantially greater which really made it a very marginal play for us to go and put capital.
Well all that claims up we can actually see capital into the fast ways we couldn’t do before.
This is Bob.
Well the only thing I would add is that we get to do it within our original capital guidance as well as the guys have done a good job on keeping capital down year-to-date.
And so we were able to achieve roughly $300 million in our acquisition (indiscernible) and not increase capital guidance which obviously is pretty important.
Okay that’s great.
And then just have the third and final question the Paradox the other rig activity that we should pre-operate is that – should I think of that as Paradox in Southeast Colorado or can you guys give us any color on that? Am I on the right track anyway?  It’s a combination of Paradox and a few others that we are working to do some additional exploration.
So we will give you some more color as we go along.
Okay thanks for all the color guys.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Thanks David.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Kissel with Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Thank you and thanks for taking my questions guys.
Al at the end of the prepared remarks you reiterated your intent to reinvest some of the Mozambique proceeds in the U.S.
plays and other initiatives.
And I was just wondering if you could take this tab in 2014 where the dells will be going primarily and kind of how you are juggling the upstream component with as you mentioned the other initiatives which I assume mean share repurchase potential or even dividend increases?  Yes Peter if I could I am going to be a little more (indiscernible).
What we are going to try to do is feed areas today where we can accelerate the drilling activity and the growth and certainly where we can that we are going to do that in the Eagleford and may reference to what we are going to do next year in the Wattenberg.
And I got early assessment as this Wolfcamp area is going to be something that if it continues to appraise what we have seen early and we have the infrastructure in place to be able to put capital there for that drilling wells and let them sitting waiting on pipeline connection.
I don’t think any of us want a whole lot of wells WOPL.
So our hope is is that we can get the infrastructure in that part of West Texas to workforce in a way that a lot of that capital would go there.
So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we are going to try to direct that capital at places where we have we real attract wellhead margins and real attractive wellhead margins that are today 70% cut by oil in the Wolfcamp pretty attractive.
You know what we are looking at with both the Wattenberg and the Eagleford.
So those are the three areas you can expect that we will increase capital as we come out with our capital guidance next year.
They have some opportunities for intermediate oil in Gulf of Mexico.
We will continue to figure out how we might be able to get into that as well.
So as anything in our portfolio that we can in the short intermediate term increase our pre-tax cash flow and pre-tax cash flow per share those are very fairly important things as we look at not just in ‘14 but look beyond ‘14 into ‘15 and ‘16 to try to give us a trajectory over the next three years where we will direct a larger portion of our capital spend into that short and intermediate type of capital cycling.
Thanks Al.
That’s helpful.
And then my follow-up is just is there any update on the Brazil asset sale process and what about the potential for China as well and that’s all I have? Thank you.
Hey Peter it’s Bob Gwin.
I will address Brazil first because there is really nothing that we have on China at this point.
From a Brazil standpoint we have continued our appraisal program you might have seen in the operations report we had two successful appraisal wells this year nonetheless it's still an asset that we would expect to divest but with the unitization discussions that are ongoing that obviously is very difficult.
We think unitization should make the asset more valuable overtime primarily from a PV standpoint as our northern block where ITAIPU discoveries would look to be unitized with (indiscernible) park but BP's operator is handling that with Petrobras and so it's unclear to us as to how long that process is going to take right now.
I think our sales process is somewhat dependent on and we continue to look for opportunities to accelerate the process relative to unitization but that’s a difficult thing to do as you might imagine.
So in the interim and Bob Daniels may have a comment or two on what we have done with the appraisal program but in the interim we continue to execute the program and add value to the asset.
Yeah just very quickly Peter on the two wells that we have drilled the Wahoo-5 and the ITAIPU appraisal.
They are both very successful we Wahoo-5 had a 200 feet pay in it no water in the main objective gave us a real good handle on the different part of the field and the ITAIPU well was a fairly good step up to test the plank [ph] of the structure and it was very successful.
So you know good things coming out from drilling the wells we’re trying to minimize the amount of drilling that we have to do before we can move into real planning for how would you develop this and we think that we have got enough information to start that process.
So we’re moving forward as we have to do with the government but at the same time we’re looking at what’s the best way to get value for this asset because it is a good asset.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
I guess following on one of the last questions as you think about the thought or the possibility of blustering your short and medium term opportunities as we think about the impact on production in the context some of your longer term goals that have been out there for quite some time?  Well I don’t want to get ahead of giving you guidance next year or a year all on production or on capital basis.
Obviously we see opportunities where we think we can accelerate the EBITDA or pretax cash flow that should also imply that we think we can accelerate production a little bit.
As you probably can fully appreciate the activation cost for oil and liquids is greater than gas I think everybody has seen that over certainly the last five years and some of our industry peers have done a really good job of that turning of that spending from gas into an oil and liquids and others have done less so we didn’t have to make the term we just reapplied capital to a part of our portfolio.
We see today that we have an opportunity with these net proceeds from the sale to do something that we think that will benefit our share price and improve the way in which our near term cash flow and even intermediate cash flows can be enhanced.
So with this additional capital for the first time we’re at least evaluating the idea that we might slightly outspend our cash flow with capital as we see the attractive ability to do that with these oil and liquids plays that we have made reference to.
Okay there was some comments made about Brazil but any update on any other monetization possibilities I think things like possible sale down of Shenandoah or sale of your Western Gas general partnership ventures that have been discussed I don’t know if you have any thoughts or comments along some of those possibilities up in the next few quarters.
I mean we obviously are pretty focused on portfolio management.
We have executed over $30 billion worth of transaction in the last since like 2007 and ’08.
We continue to look at the portfolio on ways to make it more efficient ways to bring longer cycle projects forward and so I think the track record speaks for itself.
We don’t want to get out in front of ourselves identifying the particular opportunity so we’re able to withhold comment on things that haven't already been discussed.
The one caveat there is WGP in our holdings there.
We have about 200 million shares at WGP that means each dollar of WGP is worth about $0.40 of the Anadarko share price on a straight read through.
Those are those securities while marketable are not highly liquid today because we’re still under an S1 from a registration standpoint.
After the first year we will be in a position to file an S3 shelf registration statement to look at the sale of additional secondary shares.
And I think we have been fairly clear that’s something we intend to do.
Now to what degree we will use that over time and pick our spots.
And one of our goals there of course is to get greater liquidity into the WGP trading so that those shares we will be able to trade in a more robust manner with the institution.
So it’s something that’s out there something we will be dealing with in 2014 certainly but beyond that we are going to withhold comment on the other transactions that we are working on but you can expect us to continue to be active and focused on accelerating that longer term value and bring it forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Arun.
Al turning [ph] about your comments around bringing value forward as you think about 2014 capital program I just wanted to ask obviously you have the monetization proceeds in ‘14 do you – historically CapEx has equaled cash flow in Anadarko which has served you well but you can think about the program beyond 2014 could you see a scenario where you spend above your cash flow to bring forward that value? Just trying to understand is this more of a well as you take the Mozambique proceeds or could you see anything as you are doing this going forward?  Well I haven’t given ‘15 as much thought as I have given ‘14 from a capital spend perspective.
One of the things that the Mozambique transaction will prospectively allow us to have is they vary under-levered balance sheet with our net debt to cap approaching the bottom end of our range of 25% to 35%.
As we did to that point hopefully early next year we have various things that we could do to increase the leverage.
I think we believe the levered ROE is more attractive than an unlevered ROE.
So if we did get to the bottom end of that range and we saw attractive opportunities with the wellhad with margins that give us good rates of return allows to accelerate the EBITDAX and the EBITDAX grows absolutely on a per share basis.
I wouldn’t see ‘14 as a potential isolation.
On the other hand ahead of ‘15 in terms of exactly what we need to do deferred growth I think some of that is going to be dependent upon the Wolfcamp and how well we are able to progress that here in the next six months or so.
So that the question mark will be if we find that the Wolfcamp looks like it has all the elements of growth that we have found attractive with the 70% oil cut and good infrastructure and good access to market I wouldn’t be afraid about running cash flow again with CapEx if we are getting that kind of good rate of return improving our mix recognizing that that type of asset has a higher activation cost.
And we have the balance sheet in order to outrun cash flow and not put the balance sheet in jeopardy.
Al that’s very helpful.
I got a question for Bob.
Bob I was wondering if you could walk us through your appraisal thoughts around the Shenandoah mini-basin? And secondly I just wanted to see if you could comment where the service industry is in terms of having the subsea plumbing wellheads etcetera in order to develop that today so just a question on Shenandoah mini-basin?  Hi Arun it’s Bob and we are very excited of the Shenandoah mini-basin of course.
We got three discoveries in it with Yucatan Coronado and the main Shenandoah discovery.
The appraisal program is all laid out.
We are going to start a Coronado well in late 2013 that we will continue on into ‘14 and then we have Shenandoah and Yucatan lined up to the first half spuds for appraisal work there.
So a lot of activity going forward but we still have a lot of appraisal work to do to actually get our arms around how big this resource could be and then potentially how it would be developed.
The fact that we will be the operator of two other fields after the next well at Coronado was going to be a good thing that will allow us to kind of stage things in if that’s the best way to do it and develop things that are the quickest on and then start bringing others in.
As to the service industry we do think that these wells we can handle drilling the appraisal wells without any problem with the existing technologies and infrastructure that’s out there and we will be doing that over the next several years.
And we are working with the service companies to make sure that there is equipment available so at the production phase of these very large fields that we anticipate will be in the not distant future but of course these are going to be deep water and high complex wells so that our development so that’s going to take some time to get this on and we’re going to have to get the service industry involved to make sure that we have all the equipment necessary to safely produce these resources.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
In Mozambique can you give us your latest on the timing of key milestones beyond the Prosperidade development plan applications submission at the end of this year and when you think we will see LNG startup?  I think we probably best if we had Bob Daniels handle your question.
So why don’t we start with Bob?  On the Mozambique activities we’re still in appraisal phase on a lot of this Prosperidade we clearly defined we have got certified reserves.
Golfinho/Atum we’re moving towards that position with the final appraisal work there that we did through the quarter and then we have got additional discoveries that we’re out appraising such as Orca as for (indiscernible) which turned out to be a good appraisal.
So there is an awful lot of activity still going on we have a block provide another year from an exploration standpoint and we like to define exactly what the resources that we have so that’s kind of the focus from the exploration side is appraised to discoveries we have we may have a few more exploration wells actually track Persian [ph] wells in 2014 to just finalize all of that and make sure that we have got a good definition of what the total resources on Area-1 that are available to us and what will be the best to wind up for the development and with that I will let Jim talk about how the development is moving.
Yeah and from a key milestone standpoint as we advance the project towards 2018 first production day we’re starting to put all the necessary building blocks in place.
We have secured the land over 7000 hectares which is critical to onshore LNG project development and as Bob had mentioned we have an independent certified reserves for Prosperidade prospect.
We began executing all agreements with our partners and with the unitized field and the master depletion plant to go forward with the joint development of the field with ENI.
We have issued these feed contracts which are critical for both the offshore development and the onshore development and also which is a critical step completed the environment impact assessment and have that document reviewed and approved by the government.
On the ground in Mozambique we’re building operation centers and camps.
We’re starting to hire and recruit local people and train them and start to integrate them into our workforce planning session.
So we’re doing many of the key milestones and made very good progress here in the last year moving towards that first production date in 2018.
So your view is that for the 2018 at the moment it still looks on track?  Yes.
And then following up on (indiscernible) question with regards to Shenandoah.
None of the operator of Shenandoah complex none of the operator of Coronado can you add any additional color with regards to resource potential there?  No at this time we’re not the operator until after the next well but at this time I don’t think we would want there is still some activities we’re doing out there to consolidate our position in the basin and so we really don’t want to get out ahead of ourselves on that kind of thing.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Most things have been asked but I was wondering did you mention what the formation or members were at the Wolfcamp that you targeted?  John we talked a little bit about how thick this thing is it's in the Delaware Basin’s about 1500 foot thick and we’re generally targeting with our initial thrust out there four different sections and in the Delaware Basin we call the (indiscernible) sections.
You know everybody has a different criteria.
Okay that’s fine and then once for Bob Daniels on Shenandoah.
How were you able to finagle a higher working interest?  You know John when you get into partnerships like this especially when you’ve a three discovery complex and people have different interests in them.
Some people see the overall development differently.
And so we were able to pay a disproportionate amount of the next appraisal well at Coronado to pick up that extra 20%.
And we are very pleased to take that and also to take over the operatorship because we see a lot of synergies with Shenandoah and Coronado together.
And we also see the potential Coronado is very significant.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sullivan with (indiscernible).
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just had a quick question for Chuck Chuck you mentioned last quarter on the call in regards to your Wattenberg field that you guys are progressing on kind of feel the optimization.
And I know you are weighing things like narrower spacing and using smaller fracs in the economics of that versus you are spacing in bigger fracs? And I just wonder if you had an update on that? And how the kind of life of field costs for these wells figures into that calculation obviously you guys are going to do work-overs and second you are recovering costs and all the rest of it on that.
So just one kind of want to see if that plays into the calculation as well?  Yes James it’s a great question.
We continue to work it.
There is a lot of opportunity here.
And we are dealing with two benches in the Niobrara and the Codell sands.
So we are working through the process of doing field test at various spacing various lateral links various stage spacing cluster spacing all the multiple variables that go into these developments and we are continuing to give the information as we produce these wells.
And as we mentioned the production growth has been substantial.
So we are gathering that information.
It’s too early that we feel to sort of hone in on one answer and it may very well be dependent upon the fluid type and where you are in the field and that type of that thing as to what the absolute right answer is.
So we are still working it and we are making good progress but it really takes some production feedback to know which ones sort of right.
Sure sure.
And I am sure that obviously you guys are impeded in that field a little bit in the second half of this year so but alright so next just a follow-up here is more of a kind of a multi-view [ph] but so we were taking maybe Al but obviously you guys have a lot of high margin production coming on in the next couple of years and the onshore U.S.
unconventional is one where you are refer and so on.
But I just wonder if you could comment on looking and this is really taking kind of a multi-year perspective but you have got big phases of production coming on internationally Mozambique eventually obviously but follow-on phases in Ghana and Algeria production will be continuing to grow in the next year.
I just wonder if you could comment around how you see Anadarko’s cash margin evolving as you kind of layer on this new production? Is this something where you will be narrowing a little bit with international projects coming on I don’t know exactly if you guys have estimates on all that yet but just see if you can speak generally on that?  James I think one of the things we are talking about this morning with respect to next year about some of the capital that we could be deploying to the short and intermediate components of our portfolio will actually grow our EBITDAX for cash margin both on a per barrel basis as well as on a share basis.
So that’s clearly an objective.
If we just wanted to grow for the growth sake we would activate gas wells and bring them on and show a lot of growth but not a lot of wellhead margin.
And you could probably make an argument to do that if you were a company that had just a few options and one of which included just dry gas.
Fortunately we have lots of options and the best option for us is not to bring production growth up through natural gas but through our oil and liquids plays in the U.S.
Coupling that on the intermediate I think with some increased oil we can find ourselves producing through new facilities like Lucius and Heidelberg in the Gulf of Mexico as well as those things that we have maybe finding the capital for to accelerate some other areas of growth in the intermediate cycling of capital as oil.
And then when you look longer term you’ve got good flows out of Ghana we do believe field 10 coming on as well in ‘16 that’s again very high margin wellhead production.
We still see some prospectivity and some additional things that we may be willing to look at in Algeria.
We found the track beyond the El Merk project.
And then when you think about just exactly what we are able to achieve by ‘18 with LNG first lifting again that’s very high margin business albeit gas it's been cooled to a liquid state and sold at prices that are fairly substantial to U.S.
dry gas opportunity.
So I think through the balance through the decade we’re pretty encouraged that we’re not only going to be able to grow but we’re going to be able to grow very and improving cash margins low head margins and through very attractive rates of return.
Okay that’s great and just since you mentioned I will just try to sneak one follow-on here which is that there was a discussion of kind of a large field (indiscernible) necessarily whether you guys potentially thinking about participation that or is that anywhere near your concession over there?  I’m not exactly sure which fields you’re referring to? I know Jim Kleckner and I were in Algeria in the Sahara and since last week and week before the celebrations around giving El Merk brought to conclusion.
The Energy Minister did make reference to some advancements they have been able to achieve and some fields that I believe are a 100% on less attract that maybe what you’re referring to and I don’t have a lot of information other than (indiscernible) is extremely size of that look potential of those skills would be to two Algerian oil production in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
I was just wondering if you could walkthrough kind of like current Wattenberg pipeline processing capacity and then just the expansions as you go into next year or you could follow offline if that’s too detailed?  They don’t give you the 30 000 essentially we have essentially we have roughly 450 000 150 million cubic feet of process and capacity and we’re going to expand it with the JT SKID in Wattenberg here toward the end of the year and the Lancaster will come online in early next year.
So we will have a substantial uplift and with that we will be able to you know pull the line pressures down and then all these wells can realize their full potential.
And that’s really the upshot of it and you know with that we should see our whole production grow substantially.
I’m trying to quantify and think about your total capacity like what type of uplift as you know drop some higher pressures down to more of a normal lower pressure with that compression and capacity can you give us a percentage or what would be the right way to think about it?  I think the way to think about it is that you know what’s really supper [ph] down here is the vertical you know these are the older depleted wells and as this line pressure is just hammered and then so as the line pressure is reduced you will those things start flowing more.
You know it's hard to know how they will compete against an onslaught of new horizontal production.
In our expectations are this thing will realize it's potential we can see that once we get these facilities online.
So we don’t have an exact number right now we will have to just evaluate it as we go along we will find other bottlenecks and that type of thing but the big one will be solved.
And that is we need more compression and more process in the capacity because you’ve to get bit of the gas to get the oil flowing.
You know you’re very familiar with that sort of fundamental of physics and that’s what’s happening you know if you look forward we have also put in place all the racks the transportation agreements for NGL gas and all that.
We have handled the big issues and you know it's just a matter of time now for their online to I think the future is really bright.
Your next question comes from the line of David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
A lot of questions have already been asked but maybe one a little bit more specific one with respect to the Marcellus.
In the past you guys have highlighted the backlog of drill down completed wells there during Q&amp;A.
If you can give us maybe an update on that? And while you are reducing rig count does that backlog allow production to maintain its kind of flat level from here or continue to grow?  Well the backlog is around 200 – just little more than 200 wells that are drilled and not yet on production.
So what we see happening is we will continue to complete those wells.
We will slowdown that backlog by reducing our rig count and our non-op partners are also slowing their activity down than they have been recently.
And so I think you see that backlog fall but that provides the opportunity to maintain and probably even grow our production in the near future these are such big wells and we can turn them on and we have the capacity to move the gas.
So our backlog should fall and the inventory of new wells would be less so some ample work in the right you mentioned to increase production.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And then one other one just on the Wattenberg you mentioned two perspective intervals Niobrara and Codell but within the Niobrara do you think of multiple intervals within that as some of your peers think of or how do you think about that from a development standpoint?  We have two different benches there is a third that’s very nominal but there is two different Nio benches that we are going to see that we work on and we have wells at each and we are continuing to evaluate how close we have to place those wells along the laterals out to be and all that like we discussed earlier.
Okay I appreciate the clarification.
Thanks guys.
Thank you David.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Well we appreciate everyone’s attention and I know it’s a busy day for a lot of you.
So thank you and we look forward to seeing you soon.
Good luck.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.