[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of quick ones hopefully.
On the operational questions I guess if Dave's on the call the Bakken and Eagle Ford well results Dave look a fair bit better than perhaps your underlying guidance had previously reflected.
So I'm curious on whose areas.
Are you now ready to basically change your type curve on specifically on the Eagle Ford? 1 650 barrels per a day I think was the condensate window that you had originally targeted.
Are those numbers still good?  And how many -- if you could talk a little bit about how much activity you've actually had in the condensate window to write that out that'd be great.
Okay.
Sounds like several questions.
I'll see if I can get to them all Doug.
First off all on the Bakken we're going to stick with where we are.
We're pretty much consistently on where we said we were going to be type curve-wise with the 30-stage fracs in the core area of the field.
As we start getting results from the Diomedes area which is the Western area of the field which won't occur until later this month when we actually get some pump equipment out there we'll take another look at those.
Now with respect to Eagle Ford a lot of chatter about -- from wells that we put out there and some of our partners had put out there.
And what we can say is that the high GOR area is generally exceeding our type curve expectations.
We have not yet shifted our curves up.
We are seeing some variability across the play.
There are some areas that are a little bit lower.
In majority the wells are behaving better.
And these are in areas that although we classify them as the high GOR areas typically are falling at the low end of those GOR boundaries 500 to 1 000.
From an activity perspective in the first quarter we would have added approximately 20 to 25 wells and all of them would have been in the high-GOR areas.
So all of our activity was essentially in that area.
And so what we've been able to do since then in terms of our Q2 expectations is again we're largely still focused on the high-GOR area.
But importantly our cadence has improved markedly.
I would expect that we would be able to double the number of wells that we are going to add to our portfolio in the second quarter.
And of that number 25% are going to be in the condensate area.
We are currently running 6 rigs in the condensate area so we should start seeing some results from that area very quickly.
But based on the fact that the high-GOR wells are performing at or better than expectations I have no reason to doubt that our type curves for the condensate wells are going to perform as well.
And so we're looking forward to seeing those results sometime during this month.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is just a little quick one the guidance for this current year is that still a good number? And if you could comment on the contribution from the acquisition and I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
We're not moving off of our numbers in terms of what our guidance for the existing acreage that we have is.
I think critically in the earnings release we feel very good about what happened to us in April in terms of our ability to essentially add 1 200 barrels a day net on a weekly basis.
And now that we're running 18 rigs across the portfolio with fully subscribed 4 frac crews we believe that we're going to be able to add the 16 and 20 wells a month to the portfolio.
So that guidance remains intact.
We understand that we've got a lot of work to do there.
With respect to Paloma we've characterized that acreage position we've characterized it as something that will pick up 7 000 barrels a day when it comes into our portfolio hopefully in August.
My view is that will be the number that we get.
And you could look for that position to grow slightly over -- towards the end of the year to maybe 9 000 or 10 000 barrels a day.
We'll see once we get a hold of it we're going to be very careful with it.
But on the annualized basis I guess that puts us and being able to talk about our overall Eagle Ford of between 32-plus thousand barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you just said this but the 767 is not in the updated budget number for this year the acquisition.
That excludes -- correct it excludes all acquisitions.
And it does include some follow-on capital for that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
I appreciate that.
Can you comment at all on what you're seeing in terms of well costs in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford and then just any update on your Niobrara drilling? Yes.
Arjun I think we're still pretty comfortable with this 8.5 range for our Bakken well.
And that's what we had kind of anticipated once we've got to 30-stage fracs.
Any increases that we're seeing there are really ones that we're driving in terms of maybe adding a little bit more fluid to the completions or whatnot.
We're actually seeing some of the heat come off of the pressure pumping market across the U.S.
And so that's going to help us hold our costs in as far as that goes.
In the Eagle Ford we're still very comfortable with this $8.5 million again well costs there.
We have fixed contracts and so we're not seeing as much price relief potentially as we'd like in that part of the basin.
But one of the things I would say is that we're seeing a lot of pressure on GOR pricing in South Texas because of the hot activity.
And our commitments I think are going to allow us to remain outside of some of that inability to get products.
So we still feel pretty good about what our pricing is in both of our key hot basins.
We're running 2 rigs in the Niobrara.
Where really in an important phase right now.
We've got 7 wells that we're doing completions on.
We've done most of these with cementless completions.
It's a change from what we had done a little bit earlier.
We brought one online this week.
It's very early days.
But it's flowing it's a little bit less than 500 barrels a day.
We're typically seeing 200 barrels a day out of these wells on pump but we'll see if the cementless completion actually works for us.
We'll know a little bit more towards the beginning part of June.
But again our big issue there is we still are concerned with the fact that these in our view are 250 000 to 300 000 EUR wells.
We're still drilling these wells for a little bit north of $5 million.
We've got to get that cost down to $4 million and get better completions.
So as we've said consistently this is an interesting exploration project that's how I'd characterize it.
But we'll get to some more interesting data in the next 30 to 60 days.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- I think you said this frankly very clearly but just to be triply sure the guidance that you previously gave on the Eagle Ford for the end of the year is reiterated.
And then any acquisitions -- the acquisitions that you just announced essentially are incremental to that guidance.
I think I've said that right if you could just confirm that.
And then if you could talk about your outlook for acquisitions going forward in that region that would be great.
Yes.
I think Paul first of all we do confirm our original guidance and the acquisitions would be incremental.
And I'd say we see additional small acquisitions.
But for the most part I think we've completed the bulk of our acquisition activity in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
I just wanted to be triple sure.
And then on the pricing down there could you just talk about how that's going? It's obviously very noisy out there.
And I just wondered if you could update us on how crude prices are moving.
And perhaps what the outlook is there because it is so hard to kind of work out what's going on.
Yes.
I think Paul we're pretty consistent that we've -- since we took this over and most of the assets that we acquired were on WTI contracts we've been working very hard to move this to an LLS-based crude.
We believe we've gotten there and we are pretty firm that it's LLS minus 6 and we think that's where the market is.
There is obviously going to be some tightening over time.
But right now we think that's a good marker for you all to use.
Yes and I think to get to that point -- yesterday we actually started flowing some of our crude down pipelines which essentially secures that pricing mechanism.
And importantly it's going to get substantial number of our trucks off the road which we think is important for how we operate in South Texas as well.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Dave can you tell us that in Eagle Ford the date you picked to drill each well on average over the last say 3 months that what you've been able to do? And also the 30-day IP as well as that you already give us the well cost how about the cash operating cost that you're seeing on a per boe basis on the Eagle Ford and Bakken? Okay.
Yes.
Paul as I think we pointed out in the release our spud-to-spud days in the Eagle Ford have fallen to 25 days over the last 3 or 4 months.
Frankly I expect us to be able to drive that even lower.
And we are seeing some wells lower than that band.
We think that that's as good as there is in the basin.
We're going to continue to test our limits to drive that forward on a go-forward basis.
As I said a little bit earlier consistent with the information that we put out at innumerable conferences I'd still refer you to the charts that we have on our single well economics for the 30-day IPs for the various fields that we've got out there high GOR 675 is the number we have out there.
And you heard me mention to Doug a little bit earlier that we will see some of the condensate wells and we're expecting those at 1 650 boes per day.
Having said that as I mentioned earlier most of the wells that we're drilling out there in the high-GOR area are above those expectations and so we may continue to improve those on a go-forward basis.
We have had some cost pressure both in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford in terms of operating costs.
Eagle Ford not unexpected.
We stood up a huge business unit to prepare for what we expect is going to be 100 000 barrels a day business.
And so we're seeing some pretty significant costs quarter-on-quarter there.
And we've seen Bakken increases in the first quarter over last year as we moved into the Diomedes area which is a higher water area in the Bakken.
Generally I would say that while the basins fall within our guidance range of $8.50 to $9.50 per barrel per FLC with the Eagle Ford being toward the high end of that range and the Bakken towards the low end of it but what I would say is that once we get the businesses underway particularly in the Eagle Ford my expectation is that next year you're going to see those numbers fall back into the $7 to $8 range across our unconventional basins.
Research Division</strong> Nice.
Final question.
Dave do you have the average for your Eagle Ford and Bakken production? And also do you have the breakdown what you expect next year in Bakken and Eagle Ford the percent of frac oil condensate and NGLs from your output going to look like based on the well that you're going to drill? Yes.
The Bakken is oil plays 100%.
And so we're producing right now as we've kind of indicated 25 000 26 000 barrels a day.
And I think we've been pretty just positive on what we expect those rates to go forward and it's going to be 100% oil.
On the Eagle Ford the 20 000 barrels a day plus minus that we're producing it's 80% condensate 7% NGLs and the remainder is natural gas.
And I would expect that those ratios are going to hang in line 85% liquids and the remainder natural gas as we continue to progress up the curve that we've also been very open about sharing into the future.
Research Division</strong> The 20 000 exit rate do you have a number that you can share on the average for April? We haven't gone there yet Paul.
We have not given an average.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Eagle Ford.
You've been pretty open how the lower GOR oil has been less economic.
Would you guys consider JV-ing or selling that acreage? No.
Well I mean -- okay let me backtrack a little bit.
In the low-GOR oil area that we classified yes.
We've said consistently we would be open to opportunities to allow somebody else to participate in those areas.
In the lower end high-GOR areas if I can be that specific no.
We would not be interested in diluting our interest.
Research Division</strong> Because you guys have flagged drilling costs in the Woodford were too high.
Have you changed the approach to help bring these down? Yes.
We've been very quick to adapt to what other operators in the areas have done both in specific areas.
But also some of their specific techniques and we've been able to dramatically drop our spud-to-spud times there from 7 plus days to 50 or less.
So we've been very pleased with our team's performance in being able to execute in the Woodford and Oklahoma.
It's actually Drew Banker [ph].
Just had 2 quick questions on the Eagle Ford.
Are the results in Wilson and Gonzalez County in line with your expectations? And how do those compare with the results in your focus area in Karnes County? Okay Drew [ph].
I think what I would say is -- we consistently say that Wilson was below our expectations and we are not conducting any activities by and large in those areas.
Gonzalez is a little bit different.
We've got rigs running across some of those areas.
And to this point we've been fairly pleased that those wells exhibit some very positive characteristics of the high-GOR oils that we've expected.
So what we call our union area and certainly a little bit south to that in the DeWitt County area we've been very pleased with.
So far so good there.
But Wilson we think is challenged with respect to the Eagle Ford.
Okay.
And where is the acreage that you picked up? It's in the core area.
So mostly in the Karnes area is what we would say.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First on the Bakken it looked like your U.S.
crude price realizations were a little bit lower.
Is there an effect from the depressed Bakken pricing we saw in the winter months? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what have the trends been recently? Well I mean this morning as I've been pretty consistently saying we expect that the trends to close back.
And this morning the differential was $2.
So we're back into this total range of both transportation from the well and differential to about a minus 7 to WTI.
So the Bakken's recovered very nicely.
So has syn crude Pavel because as you know the OSM earnings were affected by lower price realizations.
And again the same kind of dislocations we saw that affected the Bakken affected our syn crude realizations as well.
So both have recovered very nicely.
Those differentials have come in quite a bit.
In fact syn crude is actually a little bit of a premium this morning to WTI.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Kurdistan you mentioned there is a non-operated Sarsang well that's currently drilling.
Any plans for 2012 to actually operate a well on either of your owned blocks? Yes.
We will be drilling at least one well on a Marathon-operated block in 2012 and may get the second one started.
So we will actually be conducting operations this summer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So spudding in Q3 or...
Sometime in the second half.
Research Division</strong> You guys have already a fairly large position in the Eagle Ford.
So I was wondering if you could -- how would you characterize this transaction? Is it -- is this a transaction that you guys are doing -- or these series of transactions does this help you kind of accelerate some of your drilling program? Or are these kind of -- is this an acreage position that's adjacent or right on top of your current acreage? I'm just trying to figure out the kind of the strategic rationale behind adding more to your position in the Eagle Ford.
Yes.
I think Faisal what I'd say is these additional acquisitions are very complementary adjacent to what we already own.
And so to a certain extent as Dave said we built a very substantial and we think a very capable operating presence.
These assets will be able to develop and produce synergistically with the assets we already have so they make a great deal of sense.
And so we've been very clear upfront that to the extent we can acquire these kinds of bolt-on acquisitions whether it's additional working interest in our existing acreage or additional acreage that we can develop we believe at a competitive advantage that's of interest to us.
And certainly that's what we're doing with these acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you remind me how much are you guys spending on infrastructure in the Eagle Ford gathering and processing and the sort of things that take your liquids to market? I'd put that number close to $200 million this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me the Ozona development can you comment a little bit about what happened? What didn't work? Or what wasn't working versus your expectations of production? Yes I can.
I think again we've run into a smallest-sized reservoir issue that has what I would characterize as very channelized flow regime and we've not seen the pressure support from any kind of meaningful drive mechanism.
It's not the same problems.
It's very similar to what we've seen in some of the other recent developments we've done.
And it's frankly it's put us all chasing these smaller targets in the Gulf.
Regarding the Bakken activity could you further delineate how much of the contribution for volume adds you're getting is from the middle Bakken versus Three Forks? Yes John.
It also gives me a chance to say that we actually do make about 5% of our volume from natural gas there.
So much as I'd like to say it's 100% oil I can't quite claim that.
To this point the vast majority of our activity is middle Bakken focused.
We started feathering in summer activities in the Three Forks.
And in fact the biggest well Marathon has enjoyed to date we saw last quarter there were 2 400 barrels a day from the Three Forks.
And so we'll start to see more and more of that feature into particularly the third well where we put most spacing units.
But to this point we're still a middle Bakken player and you'll see us increase our focus on the Three Forks on a go-forward basis particularly in the core part of our acreage there.
Okay.
Will you look at other formations like the Lodgepole or Nisku? Or is it something later on? Well as -- our practice across all of our big plays is to really try to stay focused on where we can create the most value.
We're not going to leave anything behind.
And we continue to look for that.
We'll pay attention to what a lot of the other operators are doing out there.
But our organization and people who follow this company should understand we focus on making sure we create the most value first and then chasing these other opportunities.
Okay.
Last one for me is on Poland.
Any news to speak of yet? No not really.
We basically are pretty close to done with our third well.
We had one disappointment with the second well in terms of the zone not really being present in terms of what we were looking for.
So we've got some more drilling to do.
We'll actually start doing some of our injectivity testing in the second half of the year.
And from that we'll determine if we actually frac any of this.
So it's still early days but at this point I would say it's middle of the road.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on the progression towards your asset sale targets? Yes.
We've talked about beyond the sales we've had over the last several years that we were targeting another $1.5 billion to $3 billion by the end of 2013.
And thus far this year we've announced the sale of our Alaska assets.
So that's the only update.
We've not yet talked about the actual purchase price for those assets.
We will at the appropriate time.
But I would say that's the first this year.
We had last year over $600 million of asset sales that would contribute towards that same target.
Research Division</strong> And should we think about it as just being I guess more back-end weighted? Or kind of 50-50 over the next years? Or...
Yes.
Again we don't predict the schedule by which we'll have these sales.
We certainly only do the sales if they make economic sense.
But I wouldn't give you a projection of when to expect announcements around asset sales.
Research Division</strong> And just the last one is are you guys doing any down spacing or water float tests in the Bakken that you can comment on? Well I think we've continued to chase what other people are doing in terms of -- we started this obviously on 12.80s we're now moving very smartly to 3 wells on our drilling spacing unit and we'll probably go beyond that.
So in that vein we are continuing to down space.
We think it makes a lot of sense.
We're studying enhanced recovery in the Bakken and the other unconventionals but do not have any physical test plan or anything like a waterflood or any other type of enhanced recovery project at this point.
Research Division</strong> Dave do you have an exit rate you expect for Bakken and Eagle Ford for the end of this year? Paul we've not giving that information to this point.
But April as I've said we're 20 000 plus in the Eagle Ford.
But we're not talking about exit rates at this particular point.
Research Division</strong> I don't know what I did wrongly in the math.
But if we're going to hit 30 000 barrel per day that seems to suggest that the second half you to be average more than 40 000.
So it look like the fourth quarter you need to be in excess of 50 000.
Is that tie up expectation that we should have? Well Paul I think what I said a little bit earlier is when we have that capability which we do today to add 16 to 20 wells per month for the remaining part of the year and in April we've been able to add over 1 000 barrels a day per week I think what I would say to you is there's a number of ways you can get to that particular math.
But we now have the capacity to get to the numbers similar to what you suggested to get to our average rates for the year.
Thank you very much.
And before we close I want to take just a moment to say goodbye to an important member of our team who is retiring at the end of this month Bonnie Chisum and who has been in our Investor Relations team for the last 10 years and a 39-year employee for Marathon Oil Corporation as I said is retiring at the end of this month.
And we wish her well.
We know many of you know her.
And with that we will end the call and wish everyone a good afternoon.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!