[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to take my full quota of 2 questions.
I guess they're going to both be for Dave.
But Dave looking at the changes and the indicated rates for the wells it looks like the condensate rate the 30-day average has come down a little bit.
The high GOR rate has gone up a little bit.
But then when we look at the 60-day rate it looks like they're holding up a little better particularly on the condensate.
So I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about what's changed there in terms of your choke management? And specific to that this morning EOG had their results and they made a point to say that "You know what? It doesn't really matter." And they're -- they've gone for the more aggressive chokes.
I wonder if you could address that and then I'll take a follow-up please.
Yes.
Doug thanks for the questions.
It's been pretty interesting reading all the comments about choke management.
One wouldn't think we've spent that much time talking about it.
But I think I would point out on the chart is we've given you actual well results.
And so previously the tight curves represented what we expected in the play and we've been pretty clear that they were based on essentially running these wells at 16 chokes across the play type.
And our practice is pretty straightforward.
We bring wells on at 12.
At 24 hours we flip them or once they settle in we flip them to 13.
Then we go to 14 and generally we put our wells down the sales line at 14 or less.
And so what we're trying to show here is the fact that our wells are holding up on a more predictive basis.
We're giving you actual details of how we're actually running these wells.
And I think importantly the most important line on that chart is the EUR number.
That number has been as consistent from what we said and that's what we're saying that these wells are performing exactly as we had anticipated.
As a second point I think we said from the beginning in this play we're very interested in what our competitors are doing and I think we've reacted very well to the range of competitors that we have in the Eagle Ford to make sure that we're engaged in best practice.
And no reason to doubt what some of these competitors say about managing chokes down or managing chokes up.
What I would say is we're going to continue to be focused on ultimate recovery in our wells.
We think it's very early days in what we're trying to do in terms of understanding all the reservoir physics.
But I think as importantly for us is just facilities optimization because there's no reason to build out facilities for a maximum rate when ultimately these -- we're going to be managing declines over time.
And so having a discipline around the CapEx and building out facilities to meet expectations in the wells as long as you get your EURs right you're doing the best for your shareholders.
And that's kind of what we'd say about choke management.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is kind of a related question.
Obviously you've given us the Burrow as well.
I think you talked about ½-inch choke.
But what I'm doing is trying to understand is as we look at your projections going forward which you've obviously taken up for next year what are your assumptions? And what are the chances that you ultimately end up getting a little bit more aggressive in the way you flow these things? And I guess if I could layer into that you used to talk about 16 to 20 completions per quarter.
So just help us understand what's underlying that increase in target for next year between the choke and the number of wells.
And I would leave it there.
Well again I think the choke issues are really going to be around how we build out our facilities and making sure that our facilities match up with where our production.
I will tell you we are experimenting with moving more to a 16 to 18 range in the early days of choke sizes but I wouldn't get too carried away with that.
I think the key issue for us the 2 things that are going to drive our performance have driven them this year and are going to drive them into the future is kind of what we talked about in the opening is our ability really to flow past this concept of adding at least 60 wells a quarter.
We spud and TD-ed 79 wells in the Eagle Ford last quarter and that's the basis of our performance.
And we're basically in a view now where we're adding completions at a 65 to 70 well per quarter rate.
We still built an inventory of wells waiting to be completed of -- in the circa 25 area.
So what we're looking at here is over the course of the year we have driven down our cycle times spud-to-spud 25 which we think is competitive with the areas that we play in the basin.
And as importantly we've driven our well costs down in the last month or so into this $8.6 million per-well range that we have prognosed when we first got into this play.
That's with bigger fracs longer laterals and we're still beating our cycle-time expectations.
So the answer in terms of what we're doing in terms of driving production performance this year and into next year is all about execution.
We have become as good as anybody in this basin in 12 short months and we expect to be able to continue that performance into the out-years.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you kind of covered a lot of the performance in the Eagle Ford pretty thoroughly here.
And just one question stepping back and looking at your obviously updated target that involves the Eagle Ford as well as the Williston Basin.
Is there anything from an infrastructure perspective especially in the Eagle Ford that could cause some lumpiness? And what is your like capacity through the year look like and into say 2014? Well I think the macro logistics particularly in South Texas are in pretty good shape.
My view is you've seen most of the lumpiness from us in really the second quarter of this year when our operating capacity on the drilling completion side kind of got ahead of our infield infrastructure and construction capability.
I think the rise that we've seen in the third quarter and continuing into the fourth is we're matched up very well now in terms of our construction capacity in terms of building out infield infrastructure and we're pretty much on top of getting the connections to the macro outlets.
I think we had a 2- or 3-day delay on one in the third quarter of this year.
So right now we're hitting on all cylinders and so that's the reason we've been able to increase our expectations for next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And stepping back and looking at the other I guess area of the Oklahoma resource-based opportunities that you all identified in as you look forward and determine whether or not capital needs to go there especially in some of the liquid areas like the Tonkawa Cleveland Marmaton and even the Mississippian how do you think about spending money there versus some of the international opportunities that you've kind of acquired here in the last 6 to 12 months? Well yes great questions Scott.
I think what we would say is that our international opportunities are largely exploration and they're going to sit pretty comfortably within this $500 million a year that we have prognosed as we move forward.
For instance the real shift that we've gotten into is probably lower working interest for more targets which allows us to fit our CapEx around those opportunities.
The real question about Oklahoma is going to be when price recovers relative to the commodity mix that we have there then we'll have some choices about where we shift our capital largely in the United States.
But right now we're pretty comfortable that we can wait on this.
We think we're going to see recoveries as we mentioned in the middle of this decade 2015 or so.
And then that will be queued up for us to really move after in an aggressive fashion and we'll probably have some headroom in our capital programs at that particular time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up onto that when you look at the Oklahoma resource opportunities there are some of the shallower ones a little bit more oil prone? Or are you not quite seeing that covering your acreage position? I think that's the general industry perception is that for instance the Granite Wash and the Mississippi are going to be a little bit more oil prone.
We're going to do some more work next year either within the program that we already have to take a hard look at that and that'll then form our opinions as we go forward.
So we got some work to do there but I think your going-in assumption is generally correct.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Eagle Ford.
But it was the only U.S.
basin within the presentation on which you didn't give new long-term production forecasts.
So any reason behind that? Are you still comfortable with us thinking about that as 120 000-barrel-a-day-plus basin by the 2016 time frame or so.
Just any color you can provide over the long-term ramp up there would be appreciated.
Yes.
It's a great question Guy and it's a topic of a lot of discussions around here.
There's no question in our mind that this oil field shakes out into -- say getting to those 120 000- 125 000-barrel a day ranges that we talked about.
I think what we're really focusing in on now is now that we've got our capability in hand and really have demonstrated externally we're going to take a hard look at what the ultimate peak rate and plateau should be for this field in that range.
So I think there's a lot of expectations.
We just blow past the 120 000.
But I think what we're going to look at is what's the best value optimization pathway for us in terms of how the overall facilities work how we get into overall operating rhythm on a go-forward basis.
So we still think and I think it -- the field has been demonstrated.
It will do pretty much whatever we want it to do in terms of delivering the volumes that we've suggested.
We're going to take a hard look at what's the way to make the most money out here.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my follow-up is in the Eagle Ford it looks as if your crude oil volumes as a percentage of your total production fell to a lower level this quarter than it has been recently.
I think it's below 65% or so from around 75% before.
Just wondering if you could comment on that trend? Is that just reflective of higher activity in the condensate window? Or is that a trend that we should expect to continue based upon what you're seeing in the areas where you've stepped up activity? Just any comments there would be helpful.
Yes.
As we kind of pointed out when we first got into this thing we spent a great deal of time in the first 2 quarters of the year really focusing on the oil-prone areas and a lot of that was just taking care of our lease position.
As we move south into the higher-energy areas more gas you're exactly right.
We're basically seeing a 65% oil take and 17% NGLs plus/minus on our current production.
That's something else that we're really focusing in on making sure we optimize around.
I don't think that it's going to degrade too much further from that because we're really going to focus particularly in the commodity window we're moving into to make sure that we maximize the oil revenues and we have opportunity to take out of here.
So we'll continue to watch it.
But now we have some flexibility on where we actually drill our wells and we'll be able to probably stay in that neighborhood at least.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
On the press release you guys put out not too long ago I think October 24 you've talked about how you guys are engaged in discussions with the potential of sale of a portion of your interest in AOSP.
Can you give us an update on that? And then give us an idea what you would do with the proceeds from that asset sale if it was consummated? Yes.
Faisel this is Clarence.
And really there's nothing to update at this point.
I think as we said we've engaged in discussions with respect to a sale of a portion of our interest.
And really at this point in time there's nothing to say.
If and when we have a definitive agreement certainly we'd be prepared to talk more about that at that time particularly as to what we would do with the proceeds.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And is -- on this Burrow's 2-H well what's the 30-day flowing rate? I think I missed that number.
I don't know if you gave that number or not.
We didn't give that.
I don't think we've gotten to 30 days quite yet Faisel.
Research Division</strong> Clarence a bit more of kind of high-level question given we've had a lot of detail very helpful detail on mostly on the U.S.
I was just wondering given the success that you've demonstrated by I guess focusing back into the U.S.
or attacking the new opportunity in the U.S.
onshore and I guess less spending internationally how are you thinking about your spending going forward in terms of how you balance between perhaps accelerating your spending in the U.S.
and the extent to which you want to continue if you like the more legacy exploration program? That's kind of the thrust of what I was asking.
Yes.
I think Paul I would say that it's our intent to remain a global company.
You will not see us pull back our horns and become a purely U.S.
or North America company.
And so today as we look at the international arena the best opportunities we see are in exploration as evidenced by the enhanced program and opportunity set Dave talked about earlier.
I think in terms of accelerating the pace of our resource play pursuits as we indicated earlier having the opportunity set we've now developed gives us the optionality around doing just that.
But as I said in my comments we'll do that depending upon the commodity price environment and cost environment that we see.
And so I think we certainly as Dave has indicated will focus on value optimization.
And value optimization today in the resource plays really means staying away from that natural gas decreasing to the extent possible our exposure to NGLs until we see that market come back and instead focusing on the liquids on crude oil and condensate.
And perhaps that could have some impact on slightly lower rates slightly lower volume but again as we've said it really is about value optimization.
So you'll continue to see us seek the best opportunities for growth on a global basis.
And I'd simply go back to the earlier part of the decade in the 2001-2002 time frame where people had a view we were leaving the U.S.
to invest solely  internationally.
We built some tremendous legacy assets internationally that are big providers of our cash today but we didn't abandon the U.S.
And fortunately we didn't because we're back again now investing very significantly there.
And of course as Dave talks about for example some of the Oklahoma basins a lot of that is a legacy acreage that we've had for some time.
So we simply want to position ourselves in places where we know there's a great deal of resource and then we can turn our people our capital and our technology lose on creating value from that.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
And then my follow up is a double follow-up.
It's related.
Does this mean given that you've essentially upgraded your volume at least relatively near term that we shouldn't think about an attendant upgrade in CapEx? And secondly I was wondering once the current disposal program is completed would you -- with what you just said it indicated that that would kind of be the end of that program or would you be looking to reload for a second round of focus if you like? And I'd leave it there.
Yes.
I think in terms of the capital programs Paul still consistent with what we've talked about before.
I think we've got some illustrations in our presentations.
And if you look at it it's between $5 billion to $5.5 billion of CapEx per year.
And with respect to future asset sales I would simply ask you to look back at what we have done historically.
And we've had a almost continuous program if you will of reviewing our portfolio looking at how we can best optimize the value of that portfolio and in many cases it results in dispositions and then reinvestment of that into what we would see as more profitable growth.
So the bottom line is we continue to review our asset base and I would expect that you'll continue to see an asset sale program from us on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> My first question it's something of a follow-up on the last question.
I know it's early stage in the potential stake sale for AOSP.
Yet can you discuss the driver for considering that sale? I mean is it more than high grading the portfolio here as you get larger? And maybe some statement on the value of your shares or a emerging and better investment opportunity to elsewhere.
Is there more to read into that? So I would say Evan it's -- I don't want to speculate simply because as I've said we've not reached a decision.
But I think as you think about the AOSP project I would simply say what we've said all along and we believe it is a world-class asset.
It is tremendous resource pays with the opportunity to grow it well into the future and technology is going to allow us to do that cheaper in a more environmentally sustainable fashion.
But again at the same time it is a large nonoperated asset.
It is perhaps to your point an asset we don't think the value of which is fully reflected in our stock price.
So as we look at that is there an opportunity perhaps to capture value and either reinvest that in profitable growth to strengthen our balance sheet or return some cash to our shareholders all of those are considerations as we look at that asset and other assets that we have on a continuous basis.
Research Division</strong> Yes and that's helpful.
Maybe I have a follow-up on the Eagle Ford.
Just to confirm 85 000 boes a day is net full year guidance.
And also on the downspacing potential I know you've been testing that throughout the year yet in highlighting that potential today should we presume that you are encouraged by results which aren't necessarily early but maybe not fully ripe for disclosure yet? Yes Evan.
I will confirm the 85 000.
And trust me we've thought long and hard about that and that's another big step-up for us.
But -- so that's what we're going to do next year.
And on the downspacing as you know we're a technically driven company.
We're going to wait for the analysis.
But I will tell you we're -- I'm confident as I said that this thing is going to be downspaced.
In certain areas you're going to see some pretty close wells.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you just confirm for me whether you're already out from the HBP into oil PADD drilling at this point? No Paul.
We're -- I think we're consistently saying we're probably in the range of 75% through with that.
Next year probably about midyear we'll be in the mode of being -- have all our HBP behind us in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> And I wanted to ask that.
One of your competitor has indicated when they moved from the HBP into the PADD drilling for several months initially that have a -- probably where we see a temporary delay in the well completion and as we saw that production will become more back-end loaded or that they're pretty flat during the transition period.
Should we assume that as you move out from the HBP into the PADD drilling by mid of next year that this could potentially have some temporary effect on your production? Well Paul I mean I think the issue is how many of your completions on a given quarter are tied up in a PADD because your point is that you could have unevenness as you had to complete several wells before you could bring them on.
I think what we -- what I would say against the well stock of -- in any given year of 250-plus wells a year that you're probably going to see some of those effects but it's not going to be something to where it's going to be problematic.
Research Division</strong> So you do not expect this going to have any meaningful impact to you? Well let's -- we can talk about meaningful offline if you want Paul.
But I mean I think there is going to be some unevenness but I don't think it's going to be something where you're going to see a quarter be washed out because we're engaged in PADD drilling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And final one can you remind me how many rigs that you're going to run in 2013? And what is the number of proved? Yes we -- right now we're still focused on keeping 18 rigs running in the Eagle Ford.
We -- our view is that we will keep our 4 dedicated crews the 2 "spot crews" that we're running in addition to that we'll run through at least the end of the year and I would expect that at least one of those crews will feature heavily into 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> A broad question on adding rigs.
I think you mentioned if I heard correctly that you might be doing that later in the decade.
What would it take to add rigs in the bigger resource plays in the near term? Well John it's a great question.
I think the issue for us as we've said is we want to live within our means as best as possible.
And one of the things that we've already seen this year is we're gaining efficiency and so we're spending a lot of capital to do what it is we need to do.
And I think that the issue for us is we're going to continue to try to balance the business on making sure that we can pay our own way as much as possible in the programs we're in given the price regimes and the cost regime we're in.
So the real thing that's going to have to change relative to Oklahoma and some of the others is if we have a shift in natural gas and natural gas liquids and then we'll be able to make plays look more competitive with some of the oil-prone plays that we're working on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Kurdistan quickly which you obviously got a lot of drilling coming out on this exploration site.
You've already had some success there.
How do you see a development playing out? When do you think you'd start to see some productions to the local market and then ramping up from there? On the 2 nonoperated prospects that we already have discoveries on we do expect to see smaller scale circa 10 000 barrel a day early production systems in place in the first half of next year likely the first quarter but I'm giving myself a little room there because we do have winter in that part of the world.
I think that's going to do 2 things for us.
As we said it's going to help us test these reservoirs a little bit more effectively.
They are complicated and it's also going to give us ability to test some of the fiscal issues that we're looking at.
So you'll have small scale production next year.
These are plays that in the event that we elect to go forward with development based on the successful exploration you could certainly see production in a 5-year window.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all about your hedging program.
Tell me if I'm wrong but it seems like your hedge book has increased quite a bit just in absolute terms since the beginning of the year.
Is that part of a trend or more of a onetime item? Well we actually at the beginning of the year didn't have any significant hedges on our equity production.
So this is a decision that was made in August and executed at the end of August.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean any -- your bank's encouraging you to do that or just part of your portfolio management? No.
As you know we're a strong investment-grade company.
So we don't have any issues with regard to balance sheet protection per se.
But when we looked at the markets late August it appeared to us that prices were quite attractive relative to the potential for a downside price and deterioration and so we put the hedges in place.
Now you might have remember that back in 2010 I believe we did the same kind of thing and opportunistically put hedges in place for about a year at a time and that turned out well.
This one so far has turned out well for us.
Research Division</strong> Sorry for re-prompting but I just had a couple of quick more mundane questions.
Maybe for Janet just looking at the earnings it struck us that there were some nonrecurring items in here that could have been stripped out and I just wanted to get your perspective on it.
First of all on the corporate charges there was no tax offset as you normally have.
And also on the write-off of the Eagle Ford acreage that you're selling I'm just curious as to why they weren't stripped out and if you could help us understand what was going on with the corporate tax offset.
Sure.
The unproved property impairment ordinarily comes as part of exploration expense and therefore we don't treat it as special items.
Obviously it is nonrecurring.
It's noncash and we wanted to call it to your attention and treat it as you will.
In terms of the taxes there are lots of things going back and forth in that account so -- which are offsetting.
But as you know with FIN 18 as we look at our effective tax rate for the year at the end of the third quarter we can see that we needed to increase the effective tax rate slightly.
But of course that means we have to have the full catch-up for the full year and so that's what's offsetting it the kind of blend to close to 0.
What happened is as we look at what we expect to achieve for the full year of 2012 we are outperforming relatively in the high tax jurisdictions of the U.K.
and Norway particularly and actually underperforming a bit in some of the lower tax jurisdictions which drives the overall effective tax rate higher.
Research Division</strong> So it's basically a true-up Janet? That's an effective tax rate catch-up exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I reckon about $0.10 do you think that sort of magnitude is a bit -- would it have been otherwise $0.10 delta meaning on the EPS? It was about a 1% effective tax rate change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
For the full year though? Through the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My other one if I may is just very quickly for Dave.
The disclosure on the exploration Dave at least the Diaman well I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it properly in Gabon has not really got a lot of attention from you guys at least.
Can you give us some color as to what your expectations are? Obviously it's subsalt and it's in a fairly hot area.
So I'm just -- if you could give us any color and your expectations and I'll leave it there.
Well we generally leave that to the operator Total and I'm sure you could raise that with them.
But pretty clearly that's one of the most exciting areas of the world.
Gabon obviously it sets up well because you have onshore and near shore production and so we would expect this to trend out in the deepwater like we've seen in the other areas of West Africa.
And we're anxiously awaiting the spud of this well in the first quarter of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
Of the 18 rigs that you've got running in the Eagle Ford where you have these -- where do you have these rigs spaced out? Is it mostly in Karnes County or Gonzales? Or where would you have most of the operation kind of running right now? Well I guess in terms of what our ultimate for the year is going to be half of our activity is in Karnes County and then another quarter is featured in DeWitt and Gonzales and then the rest are scattered around.
So the 3 core counties is where we do most of our work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you can just give us an update or a reminder of where your capital spending projections are for the Eagle Ford and what the breakdown is between production and also infrastructure for 2012.
Yes.
We're still talking all-in with the things that we're doing in between the $1.5 billion $2 billion for what we'll spend in the Eagle Ford for operating CapEx.
And I would kind of point you to on the order of magnitude of $200 million to $250 million in terms of facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question really on Libya.
It's -- the last 2 press releases you've excluded that production from your sort of guidance.
At what point in time do you bring this back in? And then if you could just elaborate a little bit more on this gas sale how it works at it -- we'd appreciate that.
I'd appreciate that.
In terms of guidance on Libya until we have a good sense of what's going on in the ground have expats located in Tripoli have been out to the field so that we can understand what is the sustainable rate and what -- it's a better sense to have a forecast of that rate.
We're going to keep that separate from the overall forecast.
So it's hard to say given some of the recent hostilities there when that time will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no company man on the ground or expats on the ground in Libya? Not at this time.
Dave? Faisel I'll take that one.
I think the distinction is that we have people on occasion rotating into Tripoli because we believe the security situation there supports that.
We do not have expats on the ground near the producing assets which are in the "deep desert." And I think that's one of the areas that we're going to have to sort before we move forward.
Now with respect to the gas contract basically the way people should think about that is we will show an increase in production relative to the gas contract of about a little over 2 000 barrels equivalent per day 14 million cubic feet until April when the second phase of the fair project comes on.
And then that number will jump to 30 million cubic feet a day for us until we make it up.
So it's over a period of about 2 years that we'll make up that shortfall.
It's the underage the underlift.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following on Faisel's question on where rigs are located.
In Oklahoma where are you drilling currently? Where are you focusing? The rigs are running in the Knox area to the south of the wood -- Anadarko Woodford.
So -- but they'll bounce back and forth between the -- what we call the Cana which is just to the north of that.
And next year we'll probably branch out into some of the areas we've talked about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you elaborate a bit on Innsbruck just where it stands right now and what the hopes still are? Yes.
I think as we indicated in the release we're near the bottom of the hole and we've gone through a series of objective zones.
They have been less than encouraging.
We probably got depending on what the well will allow us to do potentially between 2 2 days in a week to go before we get to the bottom of the hole and the last possible objective and then we'll obviously update people on what we came to.
All right John.
Thank you and thank everyone for joining us and your questions on this call.
And we look forward to seeing you in the future.
If you have additional questions please don't hesitate to call myself or Chris Phillips.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!