(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
I understand the operating cost guidance Clarence thanks for that.
But I guess my question is really on the as you shift your production goals towards the U.S.
can you help us understand what the cash tax impact is in terms of how we should think about the deferred tax is going forward and I have a follow-up please.
Let me let Doug I have Janet touch on that.
Yeah I think because of our very high capital program in the U.S.
the domestic spending is such that we would not expect to see cash taxes paid in the U.S.
in the coming year.
As you know our international taxes are largely all cash and in fact deferred tax is reversing on and is incremental cash.
Okay.
The reason I asked the question Clarence if I may based on your current capital program based on given your production outlook it seems to us you are going to be throwing off a fair amount of cash and update perhaps possibly on how your sales process in Canada is going as well.
But when you take that together it looks like you’re going have a fair amount of cash this year.
I am just curious as to what’s your priority for using that cash and I’ll leave you there? Thanks.
Well Doug I guess first of all I would say that the amount of cash we drove off obviously is going to be dependent upon the commodity price environment that we face.
But there is no question that certainly the growth in our U.S.
production is going to drive strong cash flows from those resource plays but at the same time you would recognize we are seeing declines in some of our legacy assets that have also been historically very strong cash flow providers like Norway.
As you know we will see about a 20 000 BOE a day decline in Norway this year from about 90 000 BOE a day to 70 000 BOE a day as well as the Gulf of Mexico.
So again obviously we do expect to continue to grow.
Our cash flows both on an absolute and a per-share basis but I think you just have to look at all of the elements that come to bear on that.
With respect to you mentioned Canada I would simply say that as you know and many others know we did indicate that there had been discussions around the potential sale of a portion of our interest there.
And I think what I would say to everyone is when and if that is no longer relevant or correct we will say something.
So you’ll hear something either way either in terms that we have come to a mutually acceptable transaction at some point in time or indeed – if indeed those discussions should breakdown we would still advice of that as well.
The other sales again we – outside of Canada we have said $1.5 billion to $3 billion of transactions between 2011 and the end of 2013 we continue to make progress on that and you’d have noted in our earnings release today that we did announce the sale of our 34% interest in Neptune gas plant for $170 million.
So we continue to make progress towards our overall goal by the end of this year.
To really kind of get to the use of cash clearance as opposed to the sources of cash.
I guess you get the punch line are you happy with the portfolio or do you feel you have enough debts or should we expect additions of portfolio as we go forward? No I think coming back Doug we have said first of all we’re going to spend within our cash flows and certainly the $5.2 billion CapEx program we’ve outlined for 2013 we think it fits with that.
It is straight down the fairway of the guidance we’ve given of $5 billion to $5.5 billion of spending going forward.
With respect to additional cash that may come in from asset sales certainly we’ll look at that I think we’ve indicated in the past that for the most part we believe that the bolt-on acquisition programs that we’ve been doing particularly in the Eagle Ford have largely reached their end.
We believe we’re pretty much with may be one exception exhausted that opportunity set.
Having spent quite a bit on acquiring and building the resource base we have we will now set about to spend our money developing that and additional cash we would look to either as we said potentially a share buyback strengthening our balance sheet and increasing the dividend and no one should read into that necessarily that’s a priority.
We’ll assess that at the time but clearly returning value back to our shareholders is a key driver for us and certainly that’s what we’d look to do at that time.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Hi everyone.
You outperformed again in the Eagle Ford.
Could you talk a little bit more about how far – where do you want to driving that performance and particularly we’re looking at the drilling days is exceeded our expectations in terms of how low you’re going.
How much further can you go with that plant.
Could you talk a little bit more about how much pad drilling you’re doing – just fill us more on just what’s driving your success there? Well it’s really easy answer Paul.
Let’s say it’s extraordinary people – the team we have is doing an outstanding job across the company.
But certainly in the Eagle Ford as we drill that may wells and continued to incrementally improve what we do it all cumulatively adds up to very significant savings in spud-to-spud times.
And of course as I indicated in my remarks we’ll be aided in that in 2013 by the fact that we’re moving to about 70% of our wells being drilled on multi well pads versus very few pad wells in 2012.
And as we’ve indicated in the past pad drilling significantly accelerates the spud-to-spud times and it’s not necessarily representative of everything we’ve been able to do but we’ve had occasions where three wells of one pad took us a total of 39 days so roughly 13 days a well.
So again as you see more pad drilling we’re going to bring that – that the average in January of 19 down to a much lower level.
And so as we’ve talked about driving down our overall cost in the Eagle Ford it’s a combination of savings on rig time as well as savings that we’re realizing in our completion cost that’s allowing us to drive our overall drilling and completion cost down below the $8 million level that we’ve talked about.
So I think it’s all of those factors quite frankly Paul that continue to enhance our overall performance.
Great.
Thanks.
And I know you’ll encourage only one follow-up.
So if I could jump across on the subject to people there was an abrupt resignation in the past quarter that surprised us Clarence what is your public statements on what happened there? Thank you.
Yeah.
Paul and look I know it came as a surprise and I know what you’re referring to is Dave’s resignation for the company and I think as the release said it was to pursue other interest and obviously we wish Dave well and whatever he elect to pursue.
The message I would have for investors is that we have a very strong team here at Marathon.
As I was just talking about the results in the Eagle Ford we could say the same across the rest of our business.
We have a very talented experienced leadership team and I believe the company is in the very very good hands and I would simply say that the development of our leadership team of our executives and succession plans are at a very high priority at Marathon for the management team and for the board as well.
And so again I would reinsure investors that the company is in very good hands.
Thanks Clarence.
If I could just confirm that Marathon has a mandatory 65-year-old retirement age which without wanting to embarrass you I think is going to fairly shortly affect you? Yeah actually I’m 62 Paul but I feel 52 on some days.
But to your point and it’s what I was referring to just a moment ago succession planning is a critical priority in this company and it is something that particularly with respect to CEO succession and the board spends a great deal of time and effort on.
And I again will assure you is as all the shareholders that when it’s time for me to step aside this company will be in very good hands and will be able to led into the future.
So again I would simply say there is nothing for investors to worry about at that point.
Thanks very much in deed sir.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
The question on Eagle Ford I think you guys plan to drill 275 to 320 operated wells.
I know you bringing as much sales as you drill in 2012 which is as expected but how should we think about the backlog for 2013 kind of building falling same ratios as it affect production.
And then secondly I appreciate your color in increase pad drilling can you update me kind of where you on oil cost today versus your 2013 target.
Thanks.
Yeah I think Evan I’m not exactly sure which backlog you’re talking about.
We and you cited the range we’ve given.
I think the most specific number is about 290 to 295 wells that we plan to drill this year and we’ve talked about the fact that while we’re at 18 rigs currently we may able to go to 16 rigs and still achieve that program.
Again we feel pretty confident about that.
We’ve been asked why don’t you keep those 18 rigs and drill more wells and I think it goes exactly to your question.
We are drilling at a pace and growing our production at a pace that aligns with the midstream development and the takeaway capacity.
So we avoid just that kind of backlog that you’re talking about and continue to be able to hookup our wells with in a very short time of when we got them fracked so that we don’t have a great deal of production shut in.
It has helped a great deal as you know that we have invested significantly in the midstream last year was around $350 million this year it’s about $190 million at central batteries and gathering lines that has allowed us to move off of trucks with about 60% of our barrels now on pipe that gives us again greater optionality and lowers our costs.
There obviously is a CSR advantage as well in the region in terms of traffic.
And we intend to move that closer to 70% by the end of the year.
So continue to move our barrels on pipe.
So I would simply say we don’t have a significant backlog we typically try to keep in terms of our fracs about 25 wells that are out and front so we never have our frac crews waiting on a drilling break.
So if that was what you were concerned about the frontend we’ve got inventory built there and then on the backend in terms of keeping our barrels moving we’re in good shape there.
Again I would say in terms of the overall drilling and completion costs we’ve been running about $8.5 million we will take that down as I said just a moment ago to just below $8 million drilling completion and then we’ll have some additional facilities cost on that that will bring that up for about $8.1 million.
I would simply indicate that as we look at our opportunities keep driving cost down in the Eagle Ford.
We do indeed see some opportunity particularly on the stimulation side the frac cost side to continue to driving – drive some of our cost down there on the drilling rig side.
The greatest savings is going from 18 rigs to 16 rigs and being able to drill the same number of wells.
So that’s what’s impacting our cost.
That’s very helpful.
Second question just on corporate expenses they were up from 3Q and maybe I missed it I don’t know if there were any kind of a onetime charges in there.
Should we expect this to revert lower in 2013 and closer to 3Q or any guidance would be helpful? Thanks.
Sure I think if you look at allocated G&amp;A was up from 83 and 134 and interest expense was up from 53 to 61 quarter-over-quarter.
And there is about $25 million of comps and comps related expenses that are really of an unusual nature and we not expect to see them recurring.
We had about actually $10 million of IT expense in the quarter.
Our IT spend did not exceed our budget our plan for the year but it was very much backend weighted.
And so that’s not a run rate that you should expect to see continuing.
In addition we have a tax sharing agreement with MPC and relatively small amount quarter in and quarter out over time they will be income neutral.
But in the fourth quarter showing up in that unallocated G&amp;A was about at a $11 million expense associated with the MPC tax sharing agreement which will be offset again that will be income neutral.
So don’t think of that is recurring either.
When you look at interest expense quarter-over-quarter it was up about $8 million and as you know we issued the debt $2 billion of debt in the fourth quarter and while it was a very very attractive interest rate.
It felt was more expensive than the CP that is replaced.
So interest expenses going to be up marginally quarter over that will be ongoing.
And then as always a little bit of noise in the G&amp;A and interest numbers a lots of other miscellaneous things.
But I think that if you look at the third quarter and allocated G&amp;A it is probably closer to a reasonable run arte.
Although with ramp up in activity levels we’re going to see some natural inflation in there but I think Clarence eluded to the fact we are looking at ways that we can more efficiently operate so that we can produce greater value for the shareholders.
Great.
Great color.
Thank you.
Clarence just a couple international questions.
I think you mentioned in the release the Kurdistan Declaration of Commerciality.
Could you just talk about next steps there? What kind of capital order of magnitude we may be looking at.
And then just on the Gabon subsalt well that I think spuds later this quarter.
Is that one where the state of the block is depending on this first well or their multiple prospects? Thank you.
Yeah.
I guess Arjun I don’t recall making a comment on Declaration of Commerciality in Kurdistan.
We have had the very successful second well drilled at Atrush.
Yeah.
And perhaps may be… I apologize it’s been filed I think according to your release.
Okay.
So maybe nothing to clear apologies.
Okay.
And of course earlier this week I think one of the partners in that projects disclosed some independent reserve reports that they had done on the asset.
But at this point obviously we’ll continue to participate there.
We’re very anxious to see the commerciality of how these barrels will be brought to market given some of the difficulties that are ongoing there today particularly because the relationships between Bagdad and Rubiel.
In terms of our spending there this year it’s the Harir well that we’ve indicated that first well was a dry hole.
We have two wells drilling today on the Mangesh and Gara wells that are on the Sarsang block and we’ll have another well the Mawawa well drilled later this year.
And then we’ll be following up with two of our operated wells one at Safen and one at Mawawa which is on the same block as Harir well.
I don’t know that we’ve given necessarily the full investment there I would simply say that we have formed down as you know 35% interest in our two operated blocks origin and we have mitigated further I would simply say our financial exposure to the drilling.
And so we’re going to get a very cost efficient evaluation of these prospects in 2013.
Thank you.
Then just on the Gabon presalt and one done or some more prospects there? Well I’m a former exploration partner so you never want to say when done it is going to be a great important test because it is on a very large structure.
These structures all defined by 3D seismic there is a question mark of course is the presence of reservoir the quality of the reservoir out there in the deep water as well as the access to source we see the salt seal above these structures.
So I’d never say that one well in that larger block can completely make or break the block but it’s going to have a very significant impact certainly in our view of it.
And so it’s a promising well and we look forward to it and I think the spud was originally mid-February and now it looks like it’s going to slip into March so we watch that with great anticipation.
That’s great Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
You guys touched on this briefly earlier but I was hoping you could comment on recent North Sea production trends but I believe about a year ago you were expecting a 2012 production at Alpine to average about 80 a day.
And it looks like it actually came in around 90.
So you’ve outperformed there can you just talk about what all you’ve done to improve the production there and may be give us your latest thoughts on extending that plateau and what declines could look like in 2013 2014.
So do you see some upside to that 70 000 barrels a day in 2013 that you mentioned earlier in light of some of the recent performance.
I wish I could answer that affirmatively but I would say that the extraordinary work that our team has done in the past not just in raising 2012 production about what we said but if you look back historically at what our 2008 2009 plans said we have really outperformed for several years here.
And to your point extended the plateau and raised the plateau to a higher level of 90 000 barrels a day in 2012 and that was a combination of additional tie-backs to Alpine but again pretty extraordinary reservoir work and operating reliability on that asset and that’s allowed us to achieve some really top quartile performance.
There is no getting away from the decline we see in the 2013.
It is about a 20 000 barrel a day decline to average around the 70 000 BOE per day.
We continue to advance projects like – that we’ll be able to tie back to Alpine and that will help flatten the decline in the future when that project comes on I believe at the end of the 2014 but the decline will still be there.
We certainly continue to look for new opportunities to tie back within the acceptable radius but I think we’ve pretty much exhausted that opportunity set.
We will continue to operate the asset on – as lower costs and reliable basis as we can because as I’ve said before despite the fact that Norway is a high tax rate country these barrels get a very premium price obviously the lower prices and at low cost.
So it is a – still a strong margin highly profitable though.
Okay.
Great.
And then also you raised the Bakken guidance but one could argue that it’s still conservative in light of some of the recent performance.
So my question is how conservative Mike that guidance be and what type of activity levels does it imply for you all through year? Sorry if I missed that earlier.
And also what might cause you to accelerate activity there certainly realizations have improved prices have been strong I assume you’ve gotten some service cost release just wanting to get a sense of what you might need to see get more active there? Yeah I think first of all with the guidance or the activity levels it will remain at five rigs.
This year we do have two frac crews active.
We may indeed be able to scale that back to one frac crew and that is to drill about 65 operated wells and to your point on the guidance I’ve recognized that in the fourth quarter we – we hit an essence what is our – was our guidance for – higher than our guidance for 2013.
So we’re certainly simply looking at that.
But I would tell you that we have to be careful because it is winter time up there.
You’ve noted that our January production is below where we were in the fourth quarter and weather can have a very significant impact on that.
But again our team continues to perform extremely well.
What we look at additional activity we will.
And to your point that we’ve seen improvements in Bakken pricing as rail has opened up additional outlets eliminating some of the bottlenecks.
We too have increased our use of rail.
If you go back to January of 2012 we only railed about 5% of our barrels.
Now we’re up to 40%.
We’ll continue to look at that as a good opportunity certainly in 2013 when we think the differentials will support that kind of activity.
But we don’t want to lock into long-term activity until we get a better sense of how overall infrastructure and builds out and differentials are impacted.
So we certainly will look at that possibility of ramping up if we see the right conditions.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Folks good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
I had a question on divestitures maybe two specific assets if I could.
One the Marcellus was noticeably absent from commentary.
I was just curious if you’re planning to move forward there or potentially exit? And I guess the similar question on Libya obviously the production is ramp back pretty aggressively here.
I’ve read recent press report that suggests there could be upside production potential in the area which could potentially garner some interest from some of your larger peers.
And I am just curious if that could potentially be an asset you would look to divest and help maybe neutralize this erratic tax rate that we’ve been seeing? Thanks.
Yes Blake I guess on the first piece it is our intent if we are able to secure the right value to exit the Marcellus I think we’ve been pretty well upfront about the fact that is not an area that is quarter less and so that certainly is something we’re looking at.
With respect to Libya as sale candidate as I have said before Blake we don’t comment on specific assets that we haven’t announced for sale simply because we believe that weakens our hand if indeed we ever do elect to monetize an asset.
And so at this point I simply would say you’re right that this asset has great upside.
We’ve said in the past and most recently the NOC has said in the past that it’s an asset capable of producing upwards of 600 000 barrels a day from the current 320 000.
The key to realizing that is going to be to develop some major projects that have already been discovered and we’re in the planning process.
So we see strong value in this asset going forward despite its high tax rate.
And I recognize it has a high tax rate but the nature of that contract is that no matter what the oil price is Libya will always generate positive earnings and as well as likely positive cash.
It is a very favorable contract in that regard and it’s a high return asset.
So we will continue to move forward with it.
Okay great.
My second question Clarence if you don’t mind just addressing quickly the another discussion of potential MLP in the Eagle Ford with regard to the midstream takeaway capacity I didn’t know if you had any updates there on where you stood? No it’s really way to early at this point Blake for us to begin exploring that.
I think we certainly see that as a possibility in the future when we finally reach a stage that we have built out the infrastructure and are convinced that we are able to capture the value of our production which is the highest priority here.
We do need to maintain control over that infrastructure to move our barrels to where we see the best value but we still got more work to do there.
And as you heard me say before we are going to have to determine ultimately what is the plateau level of production if we want to get to in the Eagle Ford.
As I have said before we are not going to run to a peak and then decline.
We want to reach the plateau that we can maintain for several years so we can build out the infrastructure to meet those needs and not end up with over capacity very shortly after reaching a peak production.
So I think for now we are going to continue to move forward building out what we need.
I want to all set and done.
We got some operating history in that asset.
We can look at whether or not at MLP allows us to capture incremental value from it but that’s not a near-term priority.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Hi this is Scott Willis on for Ed.
I sort of quick one on the Eagle Ford so I mean it looks like your production is ramping pretty nicely and the proved well economics are attractive as well.
I was just wondering what your expectation is for when Eagle Ford may begin to contribute to the free cash flow of Marathon as a whole and I just have one follow up.
Yeah we’ve said consistently I think and the time we did the Hilcorp acquisition that we saw the Eagle Ford turning cash flow positive in 2014 and that is still the case.
Okay great.
And then just on the Eagle Ford infrastructure it looks like you’re spending about $190 million this year.
I was just wondering how you’re spending may look going forward in relation to that over the next few years.
Yeah I think this year is going to be about a half where we were last year a little more than that and I think we would expect 2014 to be half again at that point and I probably don’t want to comment much beyond that in part that’s going to determine at what level again do we want to focus in on a plateau type of production that we would build out to.
Okay great.
And then just last one on the Bakken well do you have a pre-drill or resource expectation there.
I believe we did have that in our presentation and I want to say it’s we’ve said 250 million to 800 million barrels of growth resource potential above range.
All right.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Janet I just wanted to follow up with the earlier question I just want to make sure I understood.
On the deferred tax as a company as a whole not just in the U.S.
as a company as a whole should we assume that in this year as we turn into a positive cash flow item.
Next year yeah and well – yeah this year 2013 yes.
Right.
Already turning to a positive cash flow item.
Okay.
And Clarence it’d great that you provide some data on Eagle Ford on the unit cost structure.
Do you have a similar data that you may be able to share on Bakken? I don’t think we’re prepared to show that.
The Bakken has grown at a more modest and measured pace and it has not had the kind of impact on our overall U.S.
aggregation that we’ve seen in Eagle Ford.
We’re trying to not get into a place Paul where we end up giving detailed numbers on all of our major assets.
But Eagle Ford we felt we needed to do it because at the rate that it’s growing and the impact that it’s having not just on our U.S.
business but the corporation as a whole we felt we needed to give investors’ guidance on that asset because it’s fairly unique in our portfolio at this point.
Clarence in the Eagle Ford the wells that you’re going to drill in 2013 are they – what’s the percentage going to be in the closing window and comparing that to 2012? Yeah I think Paul it’s about let me check I want to say about 75% or 75% to 80% of our wells are in the high GOR trend but the bulk of the rest are in the condensate window.
And I think that’s – we’ll confirm that but… Do you have that number for 2012 so I just wanted to see that how that is being shift? It was actually about the same Paul in 2012.
So even though we have said we’re going to focus as much as we can in the high-GOR window this year because of the lower NGO and gas prices.
Last year with trying to hold leases and meet our obligations as it turns out we’ll have about the same proportion in the high GOR window in 2013 as we did in 2012.
Had we embarked on our original plan before we saw the collapse in NGO prices.
We have a much percent in the condensate window.
That was part of our plan originally was to accelerate our drilling there but again with what’s happened with NGO prices and we redirected that to the high GOR area.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I think got the well is of the Eagle Ford at about $8.5 million per well where you guys are at right now.
Well how much of your wells coming in at the Bakken? Probably $8.5 to $8.8 million.
Okay.
We still think Faisel that’s best-in-class up there.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Any more potential improvement on that number going forward to the year or is that pretty much as kind of… Little bit we were in 2013 most of our wells are going to be on pad drilling but we don’t see as much savings on pads in the Bakken because to a certain extent we are doing at the Bakken for access to locations topography issues and we actually end up drilling longer laterals from some of the pads that offsets some of the cost savings you get in less movement less move days.
So we don’t see a lot of improvement at this point Khan but we continue to believe our costs are going to be the best in class.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just on the per unit profitability in the U.S.
E&amp;P.
You’ve certainly have ramped up the production in a pretty high clip in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
And just want to understand when do we see that sort of bottom line results from all that production ramp because when you look at the 2012 per unit cost per unit profitability came down versus 2011.
So just want to understand how you guys are thinking about per unit profitability of this sort of assets going forward over the next couple of years? Yeah.
I think certainly the cash – the unit cash margins are going to – going to be strong because as we’ve shown here our cash cost whether fuel level controllables or the other costs are coming down and driven a large part by the higher volumes.
The earnings contribution is going to be a bit more muted and again it comes back to the impact that Eagle Ford has on the overall DD&amp;A rate.
So when you look at 2012 actual and the 2013 guidance we’ve given you the 2013 DD&amp;A rate is going up pretty significantly and that is largely due to the Eagle Ford barrels now being a larger component of our U.S.
production.
So as we see that Eagle Ford DD&amp;A rate come down in subsequent years as we book both performance reserves as well as the higher and hopefully initial bookings as our confidence in the reservoir performance growth.
We’re going to see that DD&amp;A rate come down but in the mean time it is going to have that impact on earnings margins while cash margins I think are going to in a continued improve.
With RF force as I mentioned before seeing declines in our Gulf of Mexico barrels which had been very strong cash flow providers in the past.
Fair enough.
And then last question from me.
On – it seems like if I read your numbers correctly on the infrastructure that you guys have spent in the Eagle Ford and what’s you plan spending in the Eagle Ford that you’ll have over $1 billion sort of invested capital in sort of midstream and infrastructure assets in the Eagle Ford.
In the long run I know there was a question on the MLP but do these assets get sold eventually when you reached sort of that peak production level or do they have to remain part of the upstream portfolio and what’s your opinion on and I believe these assets have to remain with the company or not? Well again I’m not sure that we get quite to a $1 billion.
My math that didn’t get me there.
But it is does become a very significant investment nonetheless and I think obviously the number one priority for us in terms of that infrastructure is flow assurance and the ability to move to where we see the best realizations.
So if we can achieve that that’s why I come back to this question around MLPs.
That’s not our primary interest today.
Ultimately it’s an MLP or it’s a flat out sale of the assets someone else who will own them and operate them and we’ll pay a tariff or throughput the.
We’ll certainly look at that.
But again you don’t want to have whatever ultimate production is out here well over 100 000 barrels a day held hostage to midstream assets.
You want to be able to control that.
So you can control again the ultimate commercial – commerciality and marketing of your barrels.
Great.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to ask a couple of questions on – kind of reconciling the DD&amp;A costs especially in the U.S.
and the Eagle Ford on a go forward basis for 2013 to the F&amp;D costs.
Given that you talked about preliminary F&amp;D being about 17 per BOE but attributed the lot of the bookings to the Eagle Ford and Bakken and Oklahoma.
Just trying to look at how the F&amp;D kind of reconciles with the DD&amp;A expected in U.S.
E&amp;P and further there is some infrastructure costs that are loaded into the DD&amp;A but maybe wouldn’t be reflected in the F&amp;D costs and then I’ve got a follow-up.
Well it’s not a simple calculation Kate I think there is a component of midstream in the DD&amp;A rate but it’s not a big component.
In the DD&amp;A rate obviously are the acquisition costs that we’ve incurred in the Eagle Ford so that is the substantial component of it.
The other thing is when you calculate DD&amp;A rates it’s largely on the P1s of approved developed reserves whereas when you look at our F&amp;D costs it’s proved develop and proved undeveloped.
So you’ve got a larger reserve – proved reserve figure in the F&amp;D cost than you would have in the DD&amp;A rate.
And I think those are primary reasons.
Okay and then my related follow-up is whether the idea that you are not able to book the whole well EURs initially whether we could then expect to see maybe a catch up or a sudden sort of influx of significantly more efficiently added reserves maybe in 2013 or in 2014 as you’ve kind of proved performance in the place and whether that would then turned lower F&amp;D costs in future years.
Thanks.
Yeah it’s certainly – it goes to future reserve bookings and that goes to F&amp;D costs and they are going to go to DD&amp;A rate and two things happen.
One is as you begin to produce the well in a current year you will book as I’ve said a portion of the EORs then you will book the rest over subsequent years as you see performance and as our reserve auditors get the comfort that it’s more likely than not that these reserves are going to be – are going to be recovered and so you got incremental reserve bookings strong performance.
You also potentially as you go through the future years and the confidence in the EOR grows your initial reserve booking.
At the time you bring that well on production will rise as well.
So all of that contributes obviously to F&amp;D cost as well as it does to lowering the DD&amp;A rate over time.
The way DD&amp;A rate works if you look at just the life of a project when you start out in the early days of production the DD&amp;A rate is way too high.
And when the last barrel is produced the DD&amp;A rate is way too low somewhere in between there it really is the average.
It is the right number.
But that’s kind of the nature of these emerging plays where there isn’t a lot of long production history that can give us a certainty to book the full reserves upfront.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Yeah good afternoon.
Clarence it sounds like you want to withhold comment on the Eagle Ford pilot programs until Q2.
Can you speak it also I think the five distinct projects you are running that’s still the numbers I think falling off and also are there any open choke well as you think is going to run some of the broad object I can prove your point it does? Okay.
John we have nine pilot projects underway and we’re withholding – we’re not withholding comment because we’re trying to hide anything.
It’s just as you recognized.
It’s not until you get meaningful production performance out of these pilot projects that you can begin to draw some conclusions and as it has been suggested to me by my people where even to do so to draw conclusions by the middle of this year we’re pressing it a bit.
But nevertheless what we’re looking at is pilots to test the lateral displacement of the wells the horizontal displacement of wells within the reservoir as well as different stimulation methods including to your point some of the wells looking at larger choke sizes.
So we’re on a course to learn as much as we can as rapidly as we can in the Eagle Ford so that we can then make that part of our standard operating practice and as we drill 300 or so wells a year do so in the way that gives us the highest value.
Okay thanks.
And then just unrelated in Kazakhstan anything you could say as you’ve learned from the Europe well and how it in France what they’re going to do in the next wells there in South? It’s – we saw very good reservoir in the well that is encouraging.
There appears to be perhaps a bit more structural complexity in the – at least on the harrier prospect than we may have thought the seismic quality there is not very good so being able to image the sub-surfaces as well as we like is a bit challenging.
But I would say that at this stage the prospects we see the other prospect on the same block and the prospect on the other block are rather unique and I think we still hold out high hope for those and we’ll have those drilled pretty quickly here.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks good afternoon.
In the Eagle Ford if you keep with a 300 rig program roughly at what point does production start to flatten out or level out can you give us a sense of that.
I’m sorry did you say with the 300 well program? Yeah.
Again I think that’s the question we are going to try to resolve in the second half of this year when we have the results of the pilot program.
So I’ll give you an example.
We have previously I think at the time of the Hilcorp acquisition talked about peak production of 125 000 BOE a day.
As you can see from the numbers we’ve given for guidance for 2013 we should exit 2013 at about 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Depending upon the overall size of the resource base we have here which again is going to be determined in large part by the pilot results.
We could have a decade of drilling out here at current drilling levels.
And so exceeding 125 000 barrels a day I think is a very likely outcome but I think as I indicated before we don’t want to build up to some peak of say – let’s just say for purpose is 150 000 barrels a day only to see that decline within a year or two.
Our preference would be to go to a lower level that we can sustain for a longer period of time again and so we can optimize our mid stream investment and not overbuild capacity that’s going to be underutilized.
So I can’t give you a number.
I think at this time I think we see tremendous upside for this play.
We’re going to be in this play for a long period of time and as we get get the full data set from our station pilots we’ll be able to give better guidance on where we see this has set ultimately getting to.
I appreciate the color.
And then just in terms of the second question.
You got a very active exploration portfolio going on.
Which one prospect you’d see the most excited in terms of the resources upside that you’re testing here in the first half.
Would it be that the Gabon well? If I do that I’m going to put the Gregory on it.
I hate to do that.
That’s bad luck.
They are all good prospects.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Just a quick question.
First I wanted to make sure I heard clearly the 6% to 13% stretch target for production.
Could you clarify the timeline on that and what that includes just as that totally we’re looking at excluding Libya? It’s… Yeah go ahead Howard.
That’s total upstream production excluding Libya out of both 2012 and 2013 and excluding the Alaska asset at both 2012 and 2013.
So the way we casted early last year was we were going to grow at 6% to 8% excluding Libya and dispositions.
And so Alaska was disposed so we’ve taken that out of both years and Libya as well.
So that’s where you get to the 6% to 12% to 13% excluding those.
But the target we set last year was 6% to 8%.
That’s the target we’re living by.
Sure.
Absolutely absolutely.
And just a short follow up then – or even a separate question excuse if you have it in front of you what is comprised of other U.S.
production at this point in time.
How much of that is Gulf of Mexico and what else is out there? Gulf of Mexico we’ll give you that number here.
Rocky Mountain some non-operated Permian some Oklahoma East Texas conventional plays those are the majority of the other U.S….
Okay.
Gulf of Mexico is 18 in 2013.
Well Gulf of Mexico.
Gulf of Mexico is 18 I’m sorry? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Apologize if you mentioned this already but did you have any negative natural gas reserve revisions last year? We did do to prices but very minimal not large parties.
Okay.
It’s immaterial basically? Yeah.
Okay.
And then just a quick one on going back to the what you mentioned about the Canadian potential sale as you know there has been a lot of political debate in Canada over allowing foreign acquisitions particularly in the Oil Sands.
Do you see that as a hurdle to potentially monetizing a portion of that asset.
No.
I would only say that I think that the recent Canadian announcements around foreign engagement in their assets is actually been a help because if we were to do a sale of a portion of our interest in AOSP.
It would be a non-operated interest in a joint venture and that is something that they’ve actually given a greater certainty around greater confidence in being approved.
So it’s actually removed an uncertainty I would say that was out there previously.
Well I appreciated it guys.
Okay.
Yeah hi.
Just a quick one on reserve bookings.
I guess philosophic.
You guys are being more conservative than your peers and as you’re getting into more on conventional exposure.
Why don’t you have comparable 5% interest.
Many of your peers are in the 30s or higher.
John I think well actually this year is pretty close to 30% then if you back out the oil sands which of course is essentially – and actually are more than that.
I don’t have all the numbers in front of me but I don’t – we’ll think of ourselves is conservative in fact we try to go straight up the middle of the fair way following the SEC guidelines which as you know are inherently conservative.
Yes right.
What we think if it is ultimate EUR is actually prove was probably because the definition of prove was first probable is as likely as not – is this likely is not that you will outperform as underperformed? Okay Janet.
Most of your larger peers are in the 40s and I don’t think you were quite that high even though just to get out but thanks.
There is a quick one for Janet.
Any new hedges you put on beyond and ones you put on back in August? No.
Thank you.
Thank you Christine.
And we appreciate the interest in all of those callers and those who listened to the call today.
If you have any additional questions please don’t hesitate to give Chris or myself a call.
Have a great evening.
Thank you and good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!