(Operator Instructions) From Credit Suisse we have Ed Westlake on the line.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the progress in the Eagle Ford.
Just diving into a bit of the detail and obviously we can all download data from the Texas Railroad Commission but one of the things that you are doing is changing the completion design.
I think you are operating certain frac spreads with an improved completion design and seeing some good results.
As you look overall in the first quarter can you give us some color of say how many wells you completed? Where on the old design how many on the design so that we can sort of date your progress on IP rates against what you are doing in the wells.
And if there is any color on longer laterals as well that would be helpful.
Yeah Ed this is Clarence.
I don’t have that kind of detail to give you today.
We will certainly look at --including some of that color as we put together or future investor presentations.
But I think as you recall when we look at the investor presentations we have been showing -- we have got a couple of slides in there that show the progress that we have seen particularly in the Excelsior East Longhorn and South Barnhart areas comparing if you will sort of our original completion design to what we have seen of late.
And of course we have seen relative to the 30-day IP rates anywhere from a 33% to a 75% improvement.
And then we give greater detail by quarter in Excelsior where we show the improvement in the 30-day IPs again where we have seen upwards of a 75%.
I think we will continue to show that kind of improvement with our first quarter results.
And I also know Ed you had had some questions about the state data perhaps not reflecting some of the higher rates that we have shown.
We have to certainly look at and understand why the state data doesn’t show certainly the results we are seeing.
Part of it we believe is that the data is reported on a lease level rather than a well level.
But we certainly when we look at some of our more recent wells we’re seeing rates of anywhere from 2 000 BOE per day to 3 800 BOE per day of which liquids or oil I should say ranging from 1 600 to 3 000 barrels a day.
So really outstanding results reflective I think of the improvements we’re making in our completion methods.
But we’ll look to provide some of that additional detail and color going forward.
Yeah helpful color on those recent 24 hour IPs.
Could you just update us on the well cost as well that you’re running because I think service cost has built a little bit coming down.
It is and I think we are targeting a drilling and completion cost here in the second quarter of about $7.6 million per well and we see that trending down by the fourth quarter to about $7.2 million.
On top of that drilling completion cost you have about $600 000 per well of facilities cost.
So we are seeing continued reduction in our costs.
But  I think we’ve extracted pretty good efficiencies out of our operations as well as cost improvements from some of our vendors.
Clarence if I could maybe follow-up on Ed's question over the last several quarters I guess we've had discussions backwards and forwards about not so much the completions but your operating philosophy as it relates to choke sizes and so on and my understanding was you're going to be experimenting with that somewhat.
So I'm wondering if you can provide us an update as to whether or not you've decided to open these things up a little more aggressively in the early days.
Well again I think the choke management Doug is one of the outcomes that will provide more guidance on when we’re through with the pilot testing.
The pilot testing as you know is both lateral spacing vertical placement and certainly completion methods to include choke size.
So more detail to come on that.
But I would simply say that I think we continue I would say to remain a bit on the conservative side at this point of not opening these wells up.
And we continue to believe stress dependent permeability is an issue out here and we’d rather constrain the early flow rates and enhance recovery as opposed to opening the wells up and getting higher initial rates.
So again more detail to come on that I think as we -- in the second half of the year we provide guidance on the results of the pilot program and what it really means if you will in terms of the wells that we’ll drill the resource and how we’ll best complete these wells.
Got it.
Thanks.
My follow-up is somewhat unrelated.
I guess you reported the first region exploration results.
I'm guessing that didn't quite come in as you expected.
My question is if Norway exploration doesn't work you've got obviously a big organization in Norway what is the prognosis for Norway as a core asset for Marathon going forward? I'll leave it at that.
Thanks.
I think as you recognize we have said pretty clearly that 2013 will be the year that we begin to see the decline in our Norway producing assets.
Again the asset has outperformed our expectation in the first quarter.
We’ll continue to do what we can to maximize its recovery.
But pretty clearly it is going into decline.
Having said that we continue to look for opportunities in and around Alvheim to extend the life of this asset and we’ll continue to do so.
We are hopeful that the exploration we do there in the third quarter is successful and that will give us an additional future development in Norway.
But as you recognized this is an asset that generates very significant cash flow for us.
It’s an asset that I think is pretty clearly misunderstood by the investment community.
I continue to see it referred to as low margin barrels.
They’re not low margin either on a earnings basis and certainly not on a cash flow basis and it’s a very high return asset.
And so I think it is an essential part of our portfolio today.
There will be a point in time obviously when it reaches a certain level of production that we would look to divest of it and perhaps put in the hands of someone for whom it creates greater value.
But at this point in time Norway is a key producing asset and we believe it has upside.
Can I ask one about Poland? Obviously you are not the first U.S.
company to exit Poland but I am curious how many wells you have drilled and other analytical work you have done before making that decision.
Pavel let me just check.
I want to say off hand it's about 11 wells that we have drilled -- I am sorry 6 wells that we have drilled.
And we have done some testing there.
And I would simply say that we believe the results are fairly conclusive.
These wells were drilled across the extent of our 11 concessions.
And basically what we found was thinner section than we anticipated and lower pressures which for the most part high pressures are pretty important in these unconventional plays.
And after recognizing this was initial stage of exploration but costs are pretty high.
And so we have come to a conclusion that while there may be some potential here ultimately it certainly doesn’t fit our criteria and as we have said we are mobilizing to move out of our Poland concessions.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then another one about kind of in front tier opportunity you guys are pursuing in Kurdistan where you have had a fair amount of success already.
You know what's the sequencing for moving into development mode on any of the blocks that you are currently working on? Yeah we are in the process of preparing a plan of development on the non-operated Atrush Block.
That plan of development will contemplate a development of initially of around 12 000 barrels a day scaling up to a larger operation.
And that’s on the Atrush Block that we now have a 15% interest in.
And in the Sarsang Block we are preparing for a declaration of commerciality.
On that non-operated block we have been producing the initial discovery well there on an interim basis to see how the reservoir performs and look at the commercial elements of marketing those barrels.
But those are the two existing discoveries both non-operated at this point that we are moving towards commercial development of.
We are -- with our two operated wells drilling today at Mirawa and Safen we are hopeful that we will have our first operated discovery on our existing operated acreage and will determine what's success there and what's the best way to proceed to development.
Just curious if you can provide any color on the Three Forks and the Bakken.
Any progress you are seeing there in testing wise.
And also if you could talk a little bit about the well cost you are seeing out there.
Yeah the well cost in the Bakken for us are about -- and just to put on the same basis I did the Eagle Ford there they are running about $7.9 million drilling and completion and an additional $800 000 for facilities and equipment.
So about an $8.7 million well cost.
And we will continue to do what we can indeed to drive that further down.
In terms of the Bakken and the Three Forks we continue to develop those jointly.
I think as we have talked about we see very substantial potential in the Three Forks that’s been an upgrade to our overall resource assessment for the Bakken.
In terms of current drilling activity I don’t have any numbers on that.
We’ll look to get back to you Eliot with any detail we can provide on that.
But certainly we are continuing to evaluate the additional zones and the additional benches in the Three Forks.
Thank you appreciate that color.
And also just as a follow up just get your macro perspective Clarence on the gas pricing in the U.S for 2013 and 2014 going forward.
Just curious your thoughts there.
Well our position has been one of I guess a bit bearish.
We continue to believe that the governor out there in terms of preventing gas prices from rising too much is simply the degree of switching back to coal and I think as we saw gas prices get above $4 and begin to rise a bit.
We saw coal come back into the mix pretty aggressively.
And so once again we see gas prices back down.
So we remain rather bearish and rather conservative in our views about natural gas.
We don’t really see recovery to $5 or better until 2014 or beyond.
And obviously we put our money where our mouth is when you look at where we’re spending our drilling dollars.
We continue to focus on liquids in the U.S and North America in general and it’s reflected in as we said before our lower 48 liquids production going from 55% to 72%.
So we’re well positioned.
We’ve got an opportunity set for natural gas particularly in Oklahoma.
We’ve got upside to Henry Hub prices in our EG L&amp;G business.
So we’d love to see gas prices go up.
But at this point our discretionary investment dollars are going to liquids particularly crude and condensate.
I apologize.
I’m on a cellphone if there’s background noise but I just wanted to ask quickly on the Eagle Ford shale did you discuss at all or can you discuss at all the progress to date on the down spacing what you’ve seen and any update to this point? Roger we really have said consistently and have said again today you won’t see the detailed results until the second half of this year in terms of us having enough production history and comparisons to actually then begin to come out.
Not just talk about the results but I think what you really want to hear is what are we going to do about it how many wells are we going to drill? How much resource do we expect to recover? What does the program look like for the next 10 or 12 years? So that’s information you’ll see later this year.
I would say we’ve come out I l believe in the press release and actually said we believe 80 acres is appropriate across the entire core area.
So that is what we’ll develop at the very least including in the areas that we don’t see down spacing potential.
But again we’re increasing with drilling on 60 acre spacings now beginning to move in that direction and continue and assess 40 acres as well.
So you’ll see those results and hear the impacts of it later this year.
This is more of a bigger picture question.
Could you just maybe talk through where you are on potential disposals? Obviously you gave a book loss for some of the Niobrara acreage which was non-core.
I don’t know what the cash value of that would be.
But I’m more thinking the oil sands any other assets around the portfolio.
Let me just say Ed I think that the Niobrara we talked about that that will be a second quarter event.
So it was not in there and at this point we are not able to talk about the cash side.
Once the deal closes we’ll be able to disclose what the cash number is on that sale.
In terms of to your point our earlier comment we are in discussions around a potential sale of a portion of our interest in AOSP.
As I’ve indicated there one way or the other we will tell you what happens there.
If we don’t have a deal we’ll let you know and if we do we’ll let you know that as well.
so at this point you can appreciate that discussions are still under way.
And they are taking longer perhaps than we would have liked.
It is our intent to bring this to a conclusion at quickly as possible.
But again it takes two to tango on this but we are still in those discussions.
Outside of that I think as we have said we have closed transactions of $1.3 billion and we are confident of meeting our $1.5 billion to $3 billion target by the end of this year.
I am also taking advantage of this somewhat lately attended call so apologies for the follow up.
Two for me Austin Chalk Pearsall can you give us any color as to what proportion of your acreage you believe might be potentially perspective and when can we expect to hear a little bit more in terms of your expectations of drilling plan.
Yeah starting with the Austin Chalk Doug it's still up in the air as to how much exact acreage we have.
We believe it could be as much as 20 000 net acres.
But that number is subject to change.
To date we have drilled three wells in Austin Chalk we have one in progress.
None of those have been fraced yet so results yet to come.
And in the Pearsall our view is that we have somewhere around 45 000 net acres in the Pearsall We have drilled five wells to date four of which were vertical delineation wells that we were able to better understand the reservoir.
We drilled one horizontal well and we will be fracking that well next week.
So early days I think both on the Pearsall and the Austin Chalk but certainly we see upside in these reservoirs beyond what we have in the Eagle Ford.
Thank you.
My follow up I don’t know if Janet is on the line this morning but my follow up is really on cash flow.
The cash flow this quarter looked particularly strong so I am quite keen to see what's happening on the deferred tax line particularly in the U.S.
If you could help us just on the moving parts as to why the cash flow was so strong this quarter? I am talking pre-working capital Janet.
Thanks.
I can tell you this is probably the first quarter where deferred tax a source of cash as opposed to use of cash.
I.e.
the deferred tax in the U.S.
exceeded the negative deferred tax internationally.
And of course we expect that to continue to see that grow over time.
You know I think as you know because we are spending so heavily in the U.S.
we are not paying cash taxes here.
And our typically our international taxes are primarily cash.
So (inaudible) a $6 billion prospect cash flow number so any thoughts on use of surplus cash? Yeah.
I think it's probably the same answer we give you every time we get that question which is we look at the priority uses for cash is reinvesting in the business if we have the opportunities and value accretive way to do that.
And we can do it in a way that it's cost efficient.
Beyond that we continue to look at our dividend.
We think it's a very very important part of the total shareholder return and make sure that we have a competitive and growing dividend.
We need to strengthen the balance sheet.
And when we look at asset sales are chunkier cash inflows that could potentially cause us to look at stock buyback.
Thank you Brandon and thanks everyone for your attention to our conference call.
And if you have any additional follow ups please let Chris and myself know.
Thank you good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!