Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
John Colglazier you may begin your conference.
Well thank you Jonathan.
Good morning everyone.
We’re glad you could join us today for Anadarko’s first quarter 2014 conference call.
I’d like to remind you that today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures and you need to be aware that a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
We encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the GAAP reconciliations located on our Web site and attached to yesterday’s earnings release.
At this time I’ll turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up for questions with Al and our executive management team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning.
At a recent investor conference we had the opportunity to provide an extensive look at the portfolio’s depth and capabilities.
This morning we’ll focus on the excellent results we achieved during the quarter and other recently developments that enhance our flexibility to further accelerate our value.
During the conference we emphasize our five-year track record of success consistent delivery and unmatched optionality Anadarko offers.
In the first quarter we continued to build upon that track record by delivering outstanding operational results including daily sales volume records for infrastructure expansion volumes and significant progress in our high margin oil megaprojects.
The record sales volumes were largely driven by the U.S.
onshore portfolio of assets particularly the Wattenberg field and the Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp shales in total the three growth areas provided an impressive 14 000 barrels a day uplift in our oil volumes over the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the Wattenberg field this growth increasing sales volumes by more than 7 000 barrels a day or 14% over the fourth quarter of 2013 was impressive.
We’ve also positioned Wattenberg for continued future growth by addressing the prior infrastructure challenges through the start up of the Lancaster Plant in the Front Range pipeline.
In the Eagle Ford shale we increased our oil volumes from 4 000 barrels a day or 20% as an increase over the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the Wolfcamp we achieved almost a threefold increase in sales volumes over the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are currently running four operator rigs in the identified development area where we have more than 1 000 drilling locations in just of one of four prospective benches.
We are also operating four additional rigs to actively delineate the remaining 6 000 gross acres we have in this play.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we achieved significant engineering milestone at Lucius where we successfully set a 10 000 tonne topside on the hole and we remain on-track for first oil in the second half of this year.
Separately construction on Heidelberg spar is nearing completion and we expect it to sale for the Gulf of Mexico later this year.
We’re continuing an active deepwater exploration appraisal and development drilling program participating in eight rigs running in the Gulf of Mexico with two additional rigs on the way.
In Mozambique Anadarko continues to operate one rig in the Offshore Area 1 block drilling exploration and appraisal wells.
In West Africa we’re mobilizing a rig to commence our drilling program offshore Liberia and Côte d'Ivoire consisting of one appraisal and four exploration wells.
Those are just some of the operational highlights for the quarter.
There is more information in our quarterly operations report which you can access on our Web site.
Subsequent to quarter end we announced a settlement agreement in the Tronox Adversary Proceeding.
Largely removing the uncertainty this dispute has created as I’ve said previously we’re grateful to our stakeholders who maintain their confidence and trust in us during this time.
As the result of the quarter once again demonstrates our employees have done an excellent job of focusing on delivering consistently strong operating results.
With the Tronox uncertainty behind us and our transparent production and cash flow growth expectations we’re excited about the opportunities to drive differentiating value for our shareholders by first increasing sales volumes expectations for the full year by 3.5 million barrels of equivalents at the midpoint equating to an impressive growth of approximately 8% over 2013 on a same-store sales basis.
Second increasing our 2014 capital investment guidance by $300 million for the focus on further accelerating the short cycle liquids rich opportunities in the Wattenberg field and Wolfcamp shale and third continuing our active portfolio management which has generated more than 10 billion in asset monetization since 2009.
Many of them accelerating value recognition from long dated assets or leveraging trade capital through significantly enhanced returns and as we stated previously during 2014 we also expect to monetize a portion of our holdings in WGP which currently has a market value to Anadarko of more than $9.7 billion more than 1 billion higher than during our investor conference in March.
I believe the quality of the results delivered by Anadarko during the last five years is unmatched amongst our peers and I am confident our best performance is still ahead of us.
With that we will open it up for questions.
Yes.
Good morning gentlemen.
Let's see on the Delaware Wolfcamp Al that was good detail.
One of my questions is going to be where is that incremental CapEx going and it seems you guys are having great results there but I noticed in your operations report you talk about doing some -- looks like reduced cluster and stage spacing.
I wonder if you could talk about that and also what your non-op partner -- how their program is going there and how it compares to yours?  I think as we’ve kind of highlighted in prior calls the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp shale play for us is a coming attraction and now starting to arrive.
Specifically to your questions Chuck I’m going to have you address those if you don’t mind and I’ve got a follow-up comment as well.
Charles the first part of your question is where the incremental capital going? And it’s really getting into three buckets.
The big one is Wattenberg where we intend to continue our accelerated program.
Secondly it’s in the Wolfcamp and that's what's running 10 rigs.
And we're going to -- part of the program is to test some larger frac sizes out there much like we've done in many of our other plays so that’s actually part of your second question.
We’re going to upsize our fracs.
The early wells that we drilled out there we completed them with what we just call our standard frac.
And just to get good information good reconnaissance information surveillance information so we understand the quality of the play and the extent of it.
And so we’ll be upsizing those fracs and I think they will deliver better results than the wells which would be fantastic because they are already on top of some really good economics.
And then third basically we are putting the incremental capital was is in the Land Grant area and that was in conjunction with what you saw from EOG last night with regard to Laramie County.
We’re participating in those wells and we’ll be adding capital into that program.
That is great detail.
Thank you Chuck.
And then shifting gears over to Mozambique there is a lot of questions I'd like to ask but just to narrow it down to one can you talk about what the onshore targets are going to be like? I noticed that some of them are the same age but you're also testing a cretaceous target there.
But I'm also curious about the aerial extent.
Are these potentially -- are the structures as large as what you guys have in offshore Area 1 or are they of that same caliber or should we temper our expectations a bit there? Charles this is Bob Daniels.
I would temper the expectations a little bit just because of the data availability.
We just don't know as much about them.
So while there is a potential for some very significant targets out there.
Until we get some more information it is hard to say whether they’re going to be gigantic or whether they’re going to be small or nothing.
But we have got some good prospects.
The original one is going to be probably started here in the second quarter and will follow-on with the second they are cretaceous targets.
So they are different from what we are seeing in the offshore where we are drilling the tertiary objectives.
And the main reason for that is there’s not a lot of tertiary sediments up in the onshore areas the cretaceous is closer to the surface and we think that that’s also closer to the source rock so we think that’s the best target out in that area.
The few wells that haven’t been drilled in the onshore arena I think there has been two to date had some shows in the cretaceous so we know the petroleum system is working.
And we are looking forward to getting these wells done but we do have a 2D growth there versus the 3D offshore.
We don’t have the EIA that we have been using in the offshore.
So there is going to be really interesting wells to watch.
They do have the good potential but they are not without risk.
And I think Charles as I know you know this.
But just to emphasize it in the offshore area alone today we think we have upwards of 70 Tcf of gas that’s recoverable not in place recoverable for what we are doing onshore it was what Bob described we feel like it’s very additive to that but as you can appreciate we have quite a bit of gas that’s recoverable already.
Thank you gentlemen I will let someone else there hop in the questions.
Thank you.
Hi guys can you hear me now? Yes thanks good morning Doug.
Yes John is never going to let me live that one down I am sorry about that.
And so I have got two questions if I may the first one is you got a very cryptic comment maybe not so cryptic in your press release about the flexibility to expand our 2014 capital program and additional methods to enhance value.
I just wonder if you could elaborate on those two issues particularly on the plans perhaps monetize assets with WGP at the top of that list? Well I think Doug you are reading correctly I mean we see something as we get greater clarity and hope to bring a turn offs situation to a closure in the third or fourth quarter.
As that approaches I think we will start to look at things that include WGP as well as other ways to maximize our shareholder value that include as we have mentioned in the past looking and continuing to be an aggressive harvester of our portfolio as well as a manager of it.
Like many firms that invest in us we take as much time and attention to making sure that we apply good portfolio of management skills to continue to reassess the value in our portfolio.
And when you look at how much we’ve done since 2009 that I have referred to in my prepaid comments you can see we were as active and probably more active than anybody that looking at a portfolio and trying to bring forward value however we can.
So no specifics that you can share at this point? Well I think as you probably appreciate at this point we typically like to talk about what we’ve done and rather what we’re going to do.
Okay.
My follow-up is more of an exploration question.
I'm kind of intrigued that Liberia is back on the program again I guess you have talked about its backwards and forwards but I was kind of under the impression that the outlook there or that the conclusions you come to sort of were a bit uncertain so could you walk us through what the thought is there and may be exploration program generally which looks a bit light this year in terms of the guidance for the potential expense overall? And I’ll leave it there.
Thanks.
Yes Doug.
Bob again.
We’re going to drill five wells in West Africa starting it fairly shortly the Belford Dolphin is on its way to start that activity.
But two of those are going to be up in Liberia and it’s going to be on block 10 which is the eastern portion of Liberia versus where we drilled the last program which was in the western blocks and over in Sierra Leone with what we've learned from the activities to the west there are some thing that are driving us towards the east and saying there’s better potential in that area.
We also have an offset in Liberia block nine that’s a discovery to be their discovery and so we’re actually playing off of that on one of the prospects and think that it will be an expanded section to the up dip discovery on the block nine.
So we actually think we’ve got some good prospects around over block ten and we’re looking forward to getting those wells drilled.
Additionally though we’ve got three wells done in Côte d'Ivoire one is going to be an appraisal to the pond discovery and then two will be exploratory wells so it will be in blocks 515 and 516 one of which is going to be just another down dip expanded section to the recent Total discovery in Cote d'Ivoire.
So some really good potential there we liked the pond appraisal with the results from the first appraisal well which was kind of an appraisal exploration well we got some pressure data that gave us a fairly good indication of where we should expect to or what our contact from pond.
And this appraisal well will be testing that all water contact.
If that does come in it could be a very nice discovery or a very nice appraisal to that discover and then the other two are really good looking prospects and that program will be all back-to-back with the Belford Dolphin taking us through pretty much the rest of the year.
Have you done any kind of carried target interest financially at Cote d'Ivoire I am just curious of the overall guidance and expense for the year it’s quite modest I guess relatively speaking to the activity level? Yes.
We’ve got partners that came in on Liberia block 10 and they are promoted we’ve got partners in some of the wells in Cote d'Ivoire and they are carrying us on a lot of those costs and we’re looking for additional partners on the ones that we don’t have carried yet and we expect that we will get carries on those also.
Meanwhile we’re shooting a 3D in 528 and 529 to set up next year’s program that’s in Cote d'Ivoire also and when we get that done we’ll probably be looking for partners at that time.
So we’re definitely using other people’s money as we typically do and that helps alleviate our capital pressure.
And really lowers our risk exposure.
Now Doug this is Al let me add to that just in case you weren’t clear you know in Liberia we don’t have today any capital exposed wells that we just made reference to so that’s typically to what we do whether it’s successful or not but I think you heard us for a long time talk about a well we want to drill in the South China Sea 4311 and we’ve got carried there it didn’t work out but we got a shot at it.
And the same thing with Liberia here we think is very perspective that we don’t have ourselves exposed to a lot of capital if any at all.
That’s very clear thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Good morning nice quarter everybody.
Let me ask one specific and one big picture question.
It offers Chuck I think to comment it on but can you Laramie County can you talk a little more about I know you have Land Grant there can you talk about your plans going forward and just give us a little more color on what you’re chasing with the Codell or is it Niobrara? And then I don’t know if you have non-op on some of these EOG wells or can you just give some more color there? Hi David the program that they are executing is primarily on the Land Grant and we are participating in the wells.
I would say four township type areas and our plan going forward is to just participate and continue with them on the program.
And in the course we’re looking up and down the Land Grant we will have a huge position here for additional opportunities that are similar quality and the position we have where we would be encouraging additional activities through farm outs and participation agreements so it’s a nice opportunity it’s just taking learnings from the DJ Basin that we and Noble and others have had and continuing to expand it out into the reaches of the basin.
Okay so for near-term just kind of wait and see what others are working and then you’ll make you decision after that is that the right way to read to that? We’re participating.
Yes.
So we certainly letting others work force.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Al can you just -- you’ve raised CapEx this year by 300 million what’s the best way to think about if everybody looks out of here those cash flow and your talks about Anadarko may accelerate CapEx further some people are talking about a share buyback can you just talk about how you are assuming Tronox to disclose how you see this playing out if we think about the next couple of years? Good question.
And I can fully appreciate where you’re coming from on it right now I think I can best describe as we’re evaluating the type of company that we can be and best maximize our potential on the backside of Tronox and as we move through over 100 000 barrel of equivalents a day we have continued to show a lot of growth the last five years.
And as you’ve seen in this quarter as well as in the prior years we have a good sustainable ability to grow.
We have the advantage of the very successful MLP NGP Mid-West and WGP that we’ve been leased in the past explaining that we don’t anticipate holding 91% of the ownership in WGP forever.
We have additional ways in which we think about how to maximize share price and some of that could be taking the form of additional dividend raises if you recall last August we did increase the dividend at that time and we did for a moment dispel the notion that that was the only time you should expect us to increase the dividend so that is certainly one of the things that we’re currently evaluating and we will be discussing with our Board in the coming months.
We’re also looking at things that we think could help us continue to grow the way we’ve been growing.
At this point the evidence that you’ve seen this quarter in our volumes of growth in oil are very attractive as gas starts to come back into the equation at some point we could in fact look to our gas portfolio for some growth but right now we don’t really need to do that and don’t see a sustainable gas price is likely to attract capital relative to the other things in our portfolio.
So I guess I’d say David the things that we’ve always talked about in the past in terms of wanting to consider a buyback of shares just to address that one specifically.
We’ve always believed if we were going to buy back stock we want to do it to the extent we took at least 10% or more of the stock off the table so that we permanently change the capital structure.
So as you think about usages of cash I’d say it’s into the operating business first being able to fund the types of things that you’re seeing that we’re doing this year and future years continuing to be an exploration company that does things with the drill bit followed by we’ll look at the right times to increase our dividend yield and then to the extent we think it’s attractive to us and capital is available we’ll consider share buybacks with the understanding that it really needs to be a permanent change to the capital structure.
Now those are my comments if I can I'm going to ask Bob Gwin to also share a little bit because really this falls in his daily work and the things that he works on a whole lot more closely than the rest of us.
Al thanks I think you’ve covered it I think the only thing I would add to it is that is our debt ratio and our target debt ratio as we’ve laid out for a number of years now is 25% to 35%.
With this Tronox payment and some marginal free cash flow this year given the increase in the capital budget we expect that number to be slightly north of that target range and so one of the areas that we’re going to be focusing on with the proceeds from assets sales like China et cetera is to keep an eye on that capital structure because of strong investment grade balance sheet is an important part of our business model.
And so I think that’s the other governor there relative to the usage of cash that goes into the equation.
David I hope that addresses your question.
Okay and then -- it does but I’m going to drill down one more level on you.
If I go back just the last fall right you had been talking about before the Tronox became what it became you’ve talked about accelerating maybe East Texas and some of the other liquids rich opportunities is that what you foresaw at that time is that already in your 2014 numbers or is there still more acceleration opportunities out there that you could take advantage of later this year into next year? Yes I think I want to answer your question this way.
When we allocate capital we basically allocated to exploration where exploration projects compete against exploration projects and then development projects compete against development.
As we look at our development portfolio and as commodity prices move around whether it’s natural gas crude oil or NGLs.
We take a longer view of what we think that commodity price deck is going to give us more than the yield and where we can’t get an acceptable rate of return it speaks about our portfolio.
We will allocate capital that way.
What we see today in our ’14 capital plans and the increase you are hearing about this morning that’s the right place for now for us to increase capital as we get closer to having Tronox over and behind us I suspect we will my continue to look at that and maybe in coming quarters you'll see us allocate capital increasingly in some of the areas that we have talked about previously.
Okay good yes I appreciate you humoring me a little bit there.
So thanks for all the color.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Chuck I was wondering if you could maybe walk through the sequential increases in Wattenberg.
Obviously some of your peers have had some weather related downtime so just a little bit -- I wanted to see if you could talk through that particularly Lancaster was backend loaded in the quarter? Certainly Arun thank you for the question.
Now first of all I would just like to give a big shout out to our Wattenberg team and the amazing work they’ve done through the last six months or so with the floods back in September and the Polar Vortex and you name it.
They've just done a fantastic job and through all that they have put together some tremendous results.
And we’ve talked about sort of the stack up or the pressuring up or the field and I think what you saw in the first quarter is with the incremental compression ends and getting the field capable of moving to the next level with the Lancaster start up the NGL pipeline the new residue pipeline that we have put in the expansion of a rail terminal and all that we finally managed to get all that lined up.
And although we did suffer some weather downtime during the quarter as many of our folks did what we had is more capacity to move fluids and hydrocarbons out of that field and that resulted in the big uplift that you've seen.
We really are just -- and my view is we really have just seen the benefits of the inlet of Lancaster right now.
The new compression as we've done have de-pressured the field to a large degree.
We still have some room to go there with additional compression.
But in the second quarter what we ought to see is Lancaster come up to full speed.
We'll pull the field down even further from a pressure perspective.
That will start to increase our NGL yields through the plant and it will also reduce the pressure in the field so our wells can flow with their capacity.
So it's an exciting time in Wattenberg.
Guys are real busy.
They’re really excited because they're starting to see the fruits of a whole lot of labor and blood sweat and tears out there in the last year and this is playing out much like we anticipated it would play out.
We were just jammed up.
We had more production capacity than we had capability to move it out and we were slowly getting out of that condition and it's starting to see some really big uplifts and nice production volumes.
Chuck did you see some of the vertical production improve just given the reduced line pressures in the quarter? I think that’s a possibility.
They have probably suffered the most just because they're older wells and at lower pressures and as the field pressure comes down they'll be bucking less pressuring and you could see some incremental there.
I think the thing to keep in mind there is that as we have drilled the horizontal program it’s become the predominant production if you will.
The horizontal program now is up over 83 000 barrels a day and I don't need to remind you that's 84% year-over-year from this time last year so it's a huge move and so the vertical wells although still important to us are less and less a percentage of the total.
So even if we got a nice bump which I think is a realistic expectation it won't be as meaningful as just executing our program running our rigs pulling off our fracs and getting these wells turn down the line because they're such strong wells with great economics.
Great I had a follow-up just wanted to see Al if you could discuss -- provide maybe an update on steps to reach FID in Mozambique in particular E&amp;I is looking at different development options including flex LNG.
So just wanted to talk about Mozambique? I think Jim Kleckner and I will try to tackle that question together.
FID for us is not a risk as it relates to the reserves.
I made a reference earlier in the call that we now believe we have upwards of 70 Tcf of recoverable gas.
We've gotten certain of our reserves there certified for reserves are not a risk for us.
Some of the project financings it’s probably best to let Bob Gwin talk where we are there as well.
But Jim was actually in Mozambique this last weekend visiting with the President and the certain of the ministers there in terms of trying to forward some of the things we have contractually we're in negotiations on.
So I'm going to let him if you don't mind address those specifically.
And then if I can have Bob talk about the project financing all of which when working together is what's going to feed for lack of a better word the FID hurdles.
So let me just give a quick update on what's been accomplished to-date.
As Al said the resource size is significant.
And we think there's the potential for 50 million tonnes just off the Area 1 resource base.
And that’s 50 million tonnes per annum.
So we've looked at initially a two train which is a 10 million tonne per annum project and we've secured the necessary land to place the LNG part for the initial two trains and the expansion and we secured over 27 square miles from the government.
In addition we’ve advanced the FID projects and we received both the offshore and the onshore FIDs.
We’ve also submitted the EIA to the government are waiting for a certification so all the steps are moving forward with advancement.
We’ve also worked very cooperatively with E&amp;A who has the adjacent field which is a starveling reservoir with Area 1 and we have put in master depletion plans with E&amp;I for the joint development of Prosperidade and Golfinho as well as agreed to certain principles of the unit agreement and also land utilization between the two area in the development so that’s all progressing very well.
We’ve also been successful in marketing roughly 60% of our targeted volumes to reach FID and they’re under non-binding headed agreement with premium Asian buyers.
So we’ve got everything positioned from a engineering standpoint and land security but the thing that we’re working on with the government as Al alluded to is because of the size and the scope of this project we need to secure legal contractual and fiscal stability through the government that we believe in the form is of a decree law and we’re currently in the process of working with the government to achieve that.
Once we have that agreement that will give us the necessary language and the protection so that we can start working with the project financing community to bring the necessary funds to launch the project.
So Bob if you want to add anything to that.
I think you covered it well.
The other pieces need to be together so that you can understand the moving pieces that would into the credit risk and we had ask the project finance providers to bear.
Obliviously that’s also true for our equity dollars and so once these pieces are in place we’ve done all the spade work with the ECAs.
We feel like we’re pretty well positioned to drop the hammer to proceed on the project financing when these other pieces are known and hopefully in doing so that will shorten the timeline normally associated with project financing and put us in a position to reach FID sooner then we otherwise might and just to touch on some of that I believe we have shared before.
Our expectation here would be to look in the 55% to 60% project financing range so obviously it’s an important part for ourselves and our partners it’s an important part to both help our equity returns and to fund a significant amount of the capital associated with the first two trains.
Arun this is Al I appreciate you asking a question often times people only want to know about this year’s cash flow and next year’s cash flow with respect how we’re doing operationally so I really do appreciate you asking about something that’s out in the horizon beyond the typical cash flow horizon I just made reference to.
Okay thank you then.
Yes hi two areas I kind of want to focus on.
First earnings you added an event AAPG event you’ve talked apparently about Shenandoah being of quite a sizable potential producer if you could or anyone could explain on that view timing A and B if in that span of exploration and development of Anadarko will retain the current working interest in the project? And the second area if I could is just an expansion on the PRB it looks like in the activity if you’ve got a big footprint out there in activity it seems to expand northwest to southeast and if there is some specific results and targets you could divulge? Subash this is Bob and I’ll start with the Shenandoah mini-basin and then let Chuck handle the second part of the question.
I think it was right the Shenandoah mini-basin is a very significant discovery for us and has a great deal of potential there.
But we have a lot of work to do to get that potential actually defined and then to put development plans around how we will bring the value forward to that.
Right now we’re drilling around both Coronado and Yucatan and those are the first appraisal wells in each of those and then we’re going to be drilling a second appraisal well at Shenandoah that should start here probably within a month’s time.
All that data is going to need to be rolled into our thinking about how we’d bring this field forward but when you talk about the scale of things remember Shenandoah the first appraisal well had 1 000 feet of pay and no water.
So the second appraisal well is going to be focused on trying to define their own water contact try it push it down depth and looking at the lateral continuity of the sands.
Both of which if the second well is successful they are going to give us a much better handle on what the overall resource size of just the Shenandoah field is.
And then of course Yucatan Coronado all of the appraisal work going on there needs to be rolled into that as to how this overall complex would be developed.
We will be the operator of Coronado after this well we’re the operator at Shenandoah and then of course Shell is operating Yucatan.
We’ve increased our interest in several of the wells and that gives us more control particularly Coronado with the operatorship where we’ve got the operatorship and then where we’re testing a Miocene objective in this appraisal well which is different than what we’ve announced in the original discovery the original discovery in Coronado we announced a lower tertiary success and we kept quiet about the Miocene where we found about 300 feet of pay and the reason for that was we saw some additional acreage we wanted them to control.
We were able to get our positions established increase our working interest there takeover operatorship and now we’re going to test what the extent of that Miocene potential maybe.
So there’s a lot of different things going on out here there’s a lot of different reservoirs the Miocene would be the easiest development if it came in to be a scale and then of course the lower tertiary is going to be a longer term development.
Last part of your question was would we maintain our working interest as you’ve seen what we did at Lucius what we have done at Heidelberg what we did in Mozambique.
We always -- once we define what the resource is what the costs are what the basic economics are we decide we want all of our interest we want to have somebody sharing the cost of bringing these forward.
And bring some value forward and we will make that decision when we have the adequate information to call it so with that I will turn it over to Chuck.
Yes Subash this is Chuck.
Powder River Basin of course you know we been active up there for a number of years we have a very large position scattered throughout the basin it’s about 560 000 acres gross and 350 000 acres net so that’s a very substantial position.
It’s really broken into three or four areas I think the one I am most excited about is in the South where we have a Nyo part that we're evaluating in the Southeast side of the basin.
We’re also doing programs in the Shannon and Frontier and the remainder of the acreage position that have some early promise to them so we’re really just getting started the basin it is an exciting basin to play because it has a big oil column in it fully saturated oil column lots of different intervals to work and so our technical teams are just cutting into parts and the industry has been relatively active up there chasing these.
And with recent announcements I think you can see even more activity coming forward.
So it’s an exciting opportunity another opportunity to add a big oil play into our portfolio and there is still a lot in the game for us but exciting.
The Southeast you’re referencing is that Southeast Converse County? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And final one from me if I could I just wanted to perhaps get a list of the infrastructure projects you’re still waiting on it looks like a lot of the ’14 projects are now complete and what we should be looking for perhaps in the next 12 months? Well there is a lot of them and maybe it is best you take it up with John offline but the big ones of course are getting Lancaster up to speed Lancaster 1 at full rate and then we have Lancaster 2 on the construction right beside it.
And we’re also doing a lot of work on in the Wolfcamp Delaware Basin area so that we can bring that production online at capacity.
And we’re in all around Wattenberg we have different projects including the expansion of White Cliffs that is going on and we continue to add in field oil and water infrastructure to take trucks off the road and reduce our footprint in the area and then we will be working work hard in the Powder River Basin to get the initial infrastructure in so we can test our prospects.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Great job thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Looking at the pretty attractive growth you’re seeing the Delaware Basin and then in the Eagle Ford can you talk a little bit about your outlook for current crude quality there? How crude quality might be changing and what that might mean to relative pricing in those areas? Yes.
Good questions with us today is the guy that runs marketing for us Scott Moore so Scott why don't you address that if you don’t mind.
Thank you David.
I would say the outlook for crude quality has been steady so we have a light oil and we saw that priced off of LLS or WTI or local postings that closely there too and the pricing remains relatively competitive obviously in the Midland postings for the second quarter been we are looking a little softer we had a good one in the first quarter but there is significant infrastructure expansions particular the BridgeTex line that will come in the third quarter this year that will and two other projects so a lot about 750 000 barrels a day of pipeline exports out of West Texas so I think that will be a long-term solution to the short-term pipeline congestion.
Okay.
And David I just wanted to add to your thought process there when you look at where we are investing money on the U.S.
onshore I mean you talked about the growth rates I am really excited about the fact that if you take a look at the Maverick it’s up 41% year-over-year Delaware Basin not just the Wolfcamp but in total is up 34 000 I am just sorry 34% year-over-year and then the Wattenberg program is up 84% year-over-year the Wattenberg programs up 84% so we have a lot of growth a lot of that is crude and we will try to get out in front of the infrastructure gain as we have just talked about in Wattenberg and Scott and his team have been a big help in getting that done and our midstream folks have done just a fantastic job getting all this new infrastructure that has accommodated that massive growth in three big plays.
Great.
I appreciate that clarification and maybe following up on that when we look at Q1 CapEx came in lower than expected production above the high-end of the range so I’d speculate that the drive of that is better recoveries and efficiency gains is that a fair assumption? And then as a follow-up to that when we look at the CapEx increase given kind of movements to pad drilling timing of deployment of that it’d seem that the production uplift for the balance of this year is less related to that CapEx but maybe more towards what you’re seeing in current production and the CapEx would have a bigger impact to’15 is that a fair way to think about that? There is a lot of embedded questions in that and I think it is fair to say we’re continuing to see a fair amount of efficiency gains both in our drilling and completion and even in our equipment surface equipment expenditures so our guys are doing a fantastic job getting this stuff online in a very capital efficient manner.
And the drilling times that we’ve seen in all of these programs continue to fall so we’ve been able to get more work done with the number of rigs that we’ve employed than we had the previous year a year before that and I mean it’s just been a progression it’s amazing.
Even some of record wells and say the Eagle Ford are now down below five days.
So it’s just tremendous capital efficiency.
And so I think that the ability to get it online faster and with infrastructure available to us you’ll see that production -- we’ve got a lot of production momentum if you will coming out of the fourth quarter into first quarter so the later part of your question I think there is some pent-up opportunity there just from what we’ve seen.
Another example is in Wattenberg we drilled about 120 what we call short equivalents laterals which is a record pace for us with the rig fleet that we had.
So we could even modestly moderate the rig fleet and still get the same job done just because of the efficiency gains.
And as we’ve been able to invest in these programs efficiently I think the capital that we’re adding to these programs will just continue to build the momentum into 2014 that’s what you’ve seen in the uplift and the guidance and it will certainly benefit 2015 when we get a full year benefit out of that investment.
Dave this is Al.
I just want to add one thing.
I know that it’s sometimes obvious particularly for those of you who follow and analyze 10-Ks as closely as you do but when you look at how we rank compared to our peers on lifting cost and isolating LOE as an example.
We’re as efficient as anyone and probably more than almost anyone that’s not just a cost segment but it’s the efficiency things the Chuck is making a reference to and then when you combine that with -- again peer leading F and D you can see that our ability to be efficient with our capital particularly onshore is driven by the notion of being able to drill these wells in fewer days and continue to find ways to be efficient.
So the combination of the two we’re pretty proud of and I can’t say enough about what Chuck and all of the folks associated with our onshore operations whether it’s exploration or production or development or midstream have done it really is a distinguishing factor for us.
Great.
Well we appreciate the clarification off to a great start this year thanks guys.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Al your comments kind of on the long-term spurred something we’ve been talking about with Anadarko and actually your large cap peers that have multiyear visibility for growth.
As you grow towards a million barrels a day how do you strategically think about maintaining your culture and your growth and not really suffer from the wells that the majors have suffered from? Well I think you’ve probably heard me to say a couple of thing and I’ll reiterate a few of them one is we want to get better not bigger that is a really important comment for us even though over the last five years when others have tried to reset the bar and have applied in some cases a shrink to grow approach.
We have been growing continuously through that period but it’s really more of mantra of getting better not bigger.
The other thing is is I think is really a hallmark in this organization going back to Bob Allison and then Jim Hackett is that it’s an entrepreneurial organization we push decision making down to people it’s a part of the culture that we want to create and encourage.
I think as we move from where we are to little over 8 000 barrel a day equivalent to perspective in a few years a million.
We’ll do that with the same culture that we have today a one that empowers people to make decisions a one that rewards people for making good decisions and doesn’t overly punish them for bad decisions.
We expect an entrepreneurial organization to take risk.
This is a never going to be an organization is so riskless that we avoid risk but we want to be prudent with risk taking and I think it’s the entrepreneurial spirit that Bob and Jim promoted and encouraged that we will continue.
Thanks.
I think that I just wanted to hear it again and it makes me smile the Chuck… You don’t need to say it again.
No I don’t the -- Chuck as you think about the two the four rigs in your non-development area in the Delaware Basin can you talk about the number of wells you’ve drilled there and there and their results specifically? David we do have four rigs that are out doing the condensates work and we have the benefit particularly up in the western and northwestern portions of our acreage position and the industry is really getting active out there as well.
So we’re getting not just our data but a lot of industry data to help us to size up the play I am sure you have paid close attention to it there are some really good wells out there in the East County areas is showing to be a really nice area and very competitive.
We have a large land position out there to check aboard land position.
So we have access to a lot of good access a lot of good information we’re working closely with the participants out there to make sure that we have a low cost option.
The results have been in line with the industry’s which are good and we have a big program coming up so I really don’t want to I don’t really want to call out any individual wells but we’ve had some high RPs and we’ve got some great 30 day rates et cetera.
But I going to wait till we execute this program that we are on now but we will really say what we think the averages and our type curve's will look like.
Because we just have a scattering of wells right now.
And my sense is David that that this is some really good stuff.
We’re really focused on the upper A bench there are numerous benches out in that area also three or four depending upon where you are at.
And so we will be testing each one of those.
And our land position is really large 600 000 gross acres and so we’ll be doing a lot of work out there we’re knocking these wells out in a 30 day timeframe so with four rigs in a few months we will have lot of good information that we can share with the community and I think we’re looking forward to that Dave because I believe it’s going to be pretty good.
Alright.
Thanks Chuck.
Thank you good morning.
Coming back to Wattenberg there’s been a lot of talk on the call with regards to both the timing and trajectory of production.
And the various Midstream items but I wanted to focus on well performance.
Can you add any color on the recent performance that you’ve seen in the Codell versus the Niobrara sales any down spacing test and whether well performance was the major factor here in driving the better production in the first quarter? Well it’s a great question.
We continue to develop most of them what we did early this year has put what we call Southwest corner tested online and it is a cluster of wells in the South West portion of the field.
It’s a series of Codell and Niobrara we’re using about eight Niobrara and four Codell's per section.
And they have they have done extremely well most of them only have 90 to 120 days of production on them we still the ways to go before we really good get good information but the early returns look like they are well above type curve and the program that we are going to continue to execute has about 150 or so wells in that area out of our 385 or so.
And so it’s an area that shows a lot of promise and we are very lucky to have it come on early in the year but it wouldn’t have performed as well had we not had the capacity to move the gas.
And that’s what that’s what we’ve been working really hard on in the last year is getting out ahead of this stream and we fortunately are there and so we were able to export get rid of the gas and that’s allowed these oil wells to start showing their capacity and so far we really like what we see and I just think if you look at the math that we provided at the investor conference you will see that group of wells.
In Southwest corner and that’s I think that’s more confidence that the resource base it’s a big resource base it’s 1 to 1.5 billion barrels with upside depending on down spacing is there and these -- this is a big field.
And we’re getting a lot of really good information that says that resource base is becoming more -- high and higher confidence and we are continuing as we mentioned at the investor conference that we’re continuing the down spacing programs that we’d discussed it’s only been 30 days since then or so we don’t have a lot of new information.
Those things take a little while to really start differentiating between the spacing so you will see us evaluating that throughout the year and they are making some calls on how we go about developing the other 80 or so percentage of this field we haven’t developed yet.
Great.
Thank you.
And then separately just going back to the level of capital investment that are not bigger et cetera.
Assuming you are spending more money assuming you’re getting better that should then translate to more production and you’ve big projects like Lucius coming on given I think what you’ve kind of said on the call with regards to more interest in potentially allocating capital here should we think of the 5% to 7% and focus on the upper end of that range or is there potential at least for a couple of years to exceed the upper-end of that range? Brian I think we’ve set those ranges with an expectation that we can deliver that where we’re in the range.
There is things that can insulate that but we have no control over like weather but I do think we take that into consideration as we’re kind of projecting our business but just I think we’re comfortable saying that’s the kind of range that we should be able to hit.
And so there are factors that can’t -- one of the other things that we can’t predict is whether or not we’re in ethane rejection or not so if we’re in a market that’s better for ethane in the future than we have had in the past.
And obviously production is going to go up because we’re not rejecting the ethane.
So those are factors that we really don’t have any control over and so therefore that’s the reason we give you the range.
Great thank you.
You bet.
Thanks.
Just wanted two follow-ups on the Mozambique Bob you’ve provided the target range on sort of project financing any update to sort of how you see your position in that project going forward? And do any of the nonbinding HOAs consider equity ownership from any of the buyers? Let me do this if I can Joe.
It’s probably worth it just spending a few minutes but we’ve got Scott Moore to talk a little bit about where we’re in this HOA it’s better understood so why don’t we start with that.
Sure thanks Joe so our nonbinding HOAs are progressing well.
I would say the agent buyers have a strong interest in Mozambique.
They appreciate its world-class resource size and its geographic diversity adding to their strategic portfolio benefits.
We do separate uptake from equity investment so our marketing side we were just looking an uptake.
So they’re not tied in that context.
And we’re getting pleased what we’re seeing in terms of the valuations and the pricing.
We’ve targeted traditional oil index pricing or other structures that give us comfortable value and that what we’ve been seeing.
Just taking that one step further is to what it means form an equity investment standpoint that means that we’re running our math assuming the 26.5% equity ownership position and I think we’ve talked in the past about what the amortization of the 10% we’ve now closed and $2.1 billion after tax that means we’ve captured the roughly billion dollars to date net interest that’s been invested and leaving us with little north of billion dollars and that number approaches if you run the math right that number approaches the equity investment associated with the first two trains.
So we feel we’ve substantially financed de-risked the project going forward.
And Joe that for me that is one of the little hallmarks that separates us from maybe others that have looked at this -- we’ve really taken the long cycle nature of the capital out of this by being creative and aggressive amortization so that we’re not sitting here with capital that is followed through seven or eight years before starts to return to us.
Great.
And I guess just one follow-up.
What does it take to convert those nonbinding HOAs into binding agreements is it depended on FID or one of the targets need to be one way? The objective will be to have the SPAs in places part the package that we look out to take an FID decision.
I would say that the HOAs contain a sort of key principle agreement on commercial terms and after that turn those into comprehensive and detailed documents that do take some times to negotiate but we’ll go underway and working on those as well.
Joe I know you know this but to explain others not as deep in their understanding of the LNG business selling in HOA is a whole lot more of an intent than a letter of intent.
Basically we’re engaged with the notion of getting married to these contracts.
Got it thank you that is all I have got.
You bet.
Jonathan thank you.
I’d just have a couple of comments I want to make.
First I really want to emphasize we as management and the Board of Anadarko appreciate the support we’ve gotten from all of our stakeholders over the last couple of years dealing with the uncertainty around Tronox and are relieved to be looking at it in the rearview mirror and be even happier when the day and it’s concluded.
I think each of you that have been following our Company over the last five years have been pretty exceptional.
I made reference to it earlier today but its exploration project management production solutions or development there is not a company that can do the things that we’ve done consistently as well as we’ve done in the last five years.
And I really do believe the next five years have us position to do even better than we’ve been able to achieve the last five.
The other thing that I’m very proud of what we do and how we do that is the way we actively manage our portfolio and look for ways to bring value in our portfolio forward that shows up in the share price.
So without the cloud of uncertainty associated with Macondo and Tronox I think each of us on this call are excited about what the new few quarters and coming years are going to look like.
As hopefully we’re able to let the operating performance in this Company become very bright without any clouds in the sky.
Again I want to conclude by saying thank you again.
You guys have done just a one or two job of understanding and trying to be patient whether it’s been the sell side or the buy side.
And we're glad to have ourselves where we are today.
So I appreciate it.
And we look forward to seeing everyone very soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!