[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
James you noted you didn't believe you were garnering much attention for the MUFG conversion.
I guess in that context given your capital levels appear well above Basel targets how are you prioritizing capital management here? I know you've mentioned in your past your desire to buy-in the first stake at Smith Barney but given where the stock is trading below tangible book and you're checking these priorities off the list does it make sense at all to you to shift focus here on maybe repurchasing shares? Well firstly Howard I think about this 2 chapters.
The first chapter is to build ourselves into a fortress position where we have the capital at the levels that we should have capital.
That's been our focus not just with the MUFG conversion in this quarter.
Obviously it's a mandatory conversion with the CIC last August and with the various accretive quarters that we've had in between.
So game #1 was put ourselves in a position of strength so that we do have options.
Clearly with the stock trading where it is we're not stupid.
We evaluate those options on a continuous basis.
We have with Smith Barney the ability to purchase the next 14% in May of 2012.
So approximately 12 months from now is the first opportunity but it is an open-ended option.
We don't have to move at that date if obviously we felt that there was a better use of capital at that point in time.
That's something that we constantly evaluate Ruth and I and the management here talk about all the time.
We do intend to run the Smith Barney business.
But we built flexibility into the negotiation when we purchased this back in early '09 for exactly this kind of purpose.
So Ruth may want to add on that broader capital planning but we are focused on both long-term strategic intent and short-term optimization of our capital structure.
Okay.
And shifting gears.
We can see the progress in the Institutional Securities business.
But with that VAR trended higher while most of your peers went in the opposite direction.
Is that simply a function of the rebuild of the sales and trading efforts or do you think there's other factors that impacted VAR? And should we expect that to continue? No I think you framed it well in your question.
We have been on the view that we can increase market share by about 2% initially and continue to build from there.
And really what we're doing is building share back to levels where it was historically back to where it was when Kenny was running the business previously more in line with business our other businesses.
And so we're gaining traction with clients.
I think we're seeing that.
Third-party surveys are underscoring that.
And with respect to VAR we're basically running at levels we have historically.
And I think notably we ended the first quarter at VAR pretty close to these levels saw strength continuing with clients throughout the quarter.
It did come down at the end of the quarter.
In fact end-of-quarter VAR was 129 because we really saw clients starting to back away from the markets with the ongoing uncertainty in particular in Europe.
But this is very much I think a continuation of building up the franchise.
Okay.
And then just on Europe Ruth could you just update us on gross and net exposures related to peripheral Europe? And how you're thinking in managing risks specific to that region? Absolutely.
So EMEA obviously is an important market for us and we've been focused on managing our exposures in the periphery for quite some time.
The net funded exposure to the peripherals Greece Ireland Portugal Italy and Spain is about $2 billion.
This includes exposure to sovereigns corporates and financial institutions.
It does exclude the benefit of any peripheral sovereign collateral and hedges purchased from peripheral banks against peripheral risk.
And our gross exposure's about $5 billion.
Both net and gross exposures exclude unfunded loans and any overnight deposits and we'll have more details on all of this in the Q.
First of all good for you for turning around the MBA hedge.
But let's exclude last quarter's loss and this quarter's gain and let's exclude DVA.
If you look at SIC [ph] I think it was down a little bit more quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year versus the peer group obviously better than Goldman but a little less than the peer group.
I heard the opening comments about connectivity in some of the surveys.
Just the thought process as we're going on 2 years in in terms of revenue ramp relative to peers.
And I say it relative to peers because obviously it's a tough market.
So just the thought process on what to expect there as you continue to build out and are you done building out now? So a couple of things.
First overall fixed income and commodities performance was very much affected as I noted by the activity in the commodities market.
We have a strong team in commodities.
It's historically been a very strong business for us but was down meaningfully relative to last quarter and relative to prior periods.
And as we've talked about in the past our commodities business is really a mix of 2 businesses structured solutions for clients and flows.
And usually that diversification helps us but both were weak in the second quarter.
And so we had the results was trading was lower.
And the clients' side the lack of trending volatility prevented consumers and producers to commit to hedging.
So revenues while positive were down quite significantly quarter-over-quarter.
And the lower levels in commodity really masked we think the relative progress across the balance of the fixed income franchise.
So we're continuing to do what we've talked about in the past.
We're focused on consistent progress.
We said it would take some time to continue to build up our share in fixed income but are pleased with the progress we're making.
And the hiring we did is I think a core part of it.
We have the team in place and they're continuing to focus on driving share.
I just want to add Glenn I just want to add something to that and I've said this before.
Leadership really matters in these businesses.
And I think Kenny is doing a terrific job.
We're fortunate to have somebody that experienced coming back into that role.
And the team around him we really have a team on the field now that can get this job done.
But it takes some time.
The SRM program we've built up the connectivity that we're seeing through the surveys the integration with TIPIC [ph] and the team in equities is very important and it's a series of small steps.
Well I definitely appreciate that.
It sounds like rates and FX were actually up quarter-on-quarter given the beat down on commodities.
So that is the progress because I don't think the markets were.
Actually the rates business is up first half over first half.
It was down off of what was a very strong first quarter.
But we're overall very pleased with the performance across our desks.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then in Wealth Management obviously tough markets and low rates.
You can only do so much.
But can you update us specifically on the systems conversion side and where we're at in both what needs to get done? What's gotten done? And then what that can produce in cost saves? We've talked for a very long time about the platform being completed built by the third quarter of 2011 and moving all of the Morgan Stanley financial advisors onto the platform by the end of the third quarter of '11.
And here we are in the third quarter and we're very much on track for that so pleased with that.
The next step is training the Smith Barney financial advisers moving them on to the platform.
That will begin at the end of this quarter and goes through mid-next year and so very much on track with the integration.
We're continuing to spend.
It was I think $98 million integration spend this quarter.
But to your question one of the key elements to increasing profitability across Morgan Stanley Smith Barney is completion of the integration and this is a very important milestone.
I just want to -- Glenn on this the way I think about it is every month that we go through this integration is a month that we're not spending in the future.
In other words we're one step closer.
And at the same time Greg Fleming Jim Rosenthal and the team working on the integration with Baricocoin [ph] are looking at beyond the Smith Barney piece which occurs as Ruth said early middle part of next year.
What else we really need to do to get ourselves faster to the finish line? So we've taken aggressive relook at the back end of some of the integration steps.
Just wanted to follow up on the Wealth Management.
So the margin was down linked quarter but it would have gone up from 10% to 11% if not for the FDIC charge is that correct? The FDIC charge was incremental.
We had number of ins and outs with the business.
But as I indicated the FDIC charge we believe is fully going away this quarter.
All right.
So all things considered the margin in the third quarter should be 11%? No we also had the sale out the incremental gain I noted in the other line which was sale out of the AFS portfolio.
So as I indicated we had a number of ups and downs.
And we're adding on top of that real focus on expense management to continue to drive it forward but I'm not going to put a number out there now.
Okay.
And then the net inflows to Wealth Management it wasn't a whole lot relative to the $1.7 trillion of assets at least compared to say some of the pure-play brokers the online players like Ameritrade Schwab even E*TRADE had higher inflows.
Now you've turned it around but when do you think we'll see more substantive inflows? Well you hit the right point which is when we look year-over-year we're very pleased with going from some meaningful outflow second quarter of last year to inflows this year.
And we are continuing to see that kind of progress that's affecting our overall flows in the business.
The other point I made is that we're quite focused on managed money given what that does for our clients and for the business.
And that's a helpful added boost to overall performance in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
And then lastly as it relates to expense control for Wealth Management or for the firm as a whole I might have missed this but what are your overall targets to improve any measure of expenses or efficiency? We think of really the expense management as a 3-legged stool.
There's the tactical expense management which we continue to do and as James just noted was were very focused across our businesses.
But in particular Greg is really pushing hard within Morgan Stanley Smith Barney to help drive margin.
There is the office of reengineering that we've spoken about previously which is really stepping back from some of the more tactical cost-cutting initiatives and looking at what broader changes we can make in the way we're addressing spend.
For example more meaningful looks at what we're doing in technology where can things be outsourced more efficiently what can we do on legal entity structure a whole host of initiatives that we've identified built-up bottoms-up to the office of reengineering and established $1 billion run rate savings over 3 years coming from that leg of the stool.
And then we're very focused on headcount.
So as I indicated previously in the year making sure that we're quite focused on reducing in particular underperformers.
As I noted our headcount was down amongst FAs in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
We're having that same kind of discipline across the business.
And obviously that's not just compensation expense but every employee has a multiplier effect with them.
They're in the building they use data there are a whole host of things that go along with it.
So that kind of control over headcount it's really those 3 that drive will drive noncomp and comp control.
All right.
Can I just go back to your question on flows? Because we're kind of an inflection point here in the industry.
You're right in the observation against the online players.
The full-service firms typically have much larger outflows in the second quarter because of tax season.
But a more sort of strategic issue is what is the quality of the assets? And I've noticed at least one of our competitors has stopped reporting net new money.
What really matters is the net new annuitized money and the revenue that you generate on annuitized assets versus transaction assets.
So that will be an increasing part of the conversation going forward.
Maybe on the trading side and I guess particularly on equities but even on the fixed income side when we look at rates FX and credit.
Year-over-year last -- or second quarter is pretty challenging as well.
But when you look at since you made those investments it's always hard we all compare revenues across the businesses and across the peers.
But in terms of market share can you dig down and provide any detail on product levels in terms of where you've gone or where you come from? And then where you see additional opportunities? Well starting with equities.
I think there's a lot of -- it's the best reported quarter since 2008.
And that really was with broad strength and with the backdrop of anemic industry volumes.
So the data we've looked at underscores that we're gaining share really across the globe.
And I think it's really a testament to the great job the team is doing.
But we saw improvement in our prime brokerage franchise.
We continued to see strength again across products in a challenging market but it really goes to the strength of the franchise.
Our Delta One business although revenues were lower in line with the decline on industry volumes what we're seeing is share is up.
And similarly in our Derivatives business we're seeing strong client flows.
So it is I think is evidenced by the numbers.
They speak for themselves.
In terms of share we're doing well across the board.
And in fixed income again what we're seeing is greater activity greater flow.
The data that we've looked at goes more to some of the qualitative factors.
We're having greater traction with clients.
They're turning to us more.
And again I think what you'll see when everyone reports is it will be our best way to have a proxy for what overall is the share.
We've targeted 2% market share growth.
And the way we measure our progress is we look at the top 9 players globally and just take our revenues relative to the entire pool.
And we look forward to the rest of our peers reporting so we can try and quantify that answer.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up earlier this year you discussed the reengineering or the cost initiatives over the next 3 years and targeting around $1 billion.
And when I think about the industry we're seeing quite a few banks brokers kind of go down the same path.
Some are taking a faster approach like may be in the next 6 months in the next 12 months.
And so I guess when you look at the macro headwinds the regulatory pressures one is do you feel that's enough? And two is are there any businesses within Morgan Stanley that you feel like given the regulatory changes and the pressures can be done better or can compete better on its own with other pure plays? So strategically we think the portfolio of businesses we have is a potent combination.
And we have exited a number of businesses and as you've seen over the last couple of years.
And we're very focused on the kind of the symbiotic nature between what we're doing on the institutional origination and distribution side on the one hand and retail distribution on the other.
And within Institutional Securities the ability to deliver across products for our clients.
So I would say on that we're very pleased with the portfolio of businesses we have.
And within our Investment Management business we see opportunity for growth given the performance of across a lot of the funds and the power of this brand around the globe.
So as it really goes to the second part of your question or maybe it was the first part of your question what else can we be doing with respect to our cost structure? We have 3 legs of the stool.
We're very focused on each one of those legs the tactical expense the strategic through the office of reengineering and headcount and making sure we're doing what we can to drive returns across the business.
I would say as an example in sales and trading when we announced our hiring program over a year and a half ago we were very careful to point out that we were looking to hire to narrow the gap to our peers but not to close the gap to our peers.
In fact back then we talked about having headcount that was maybe 20% to 25% lower than our peers with the view that they would come down to us rather than us going fully up to them.
And so what we're very pleased about is we have a strong cohesive team that's making progress on our market share goals.
And I think that's part of the reason you're not hearing comments like that from us because we never we didn't close that gap fully.
I was wondering first of all if you would have an estimate of your pro forma Basel III basis core Tier 1 ratio at the end of the second quarter? So Tier 1 common would be around 6.5% to 7% under Basel III at the end of the second quarter the range really being depending on the treatment of the MSSB NCI of $4.3 billion.
And of course that's looking at our balance sheet as of the second quarter.
There's no benefit for any mitigation that -- past mitigation or anything that would roll off over time.
Got it.
And are you still estimating about the same sort of RWA inflation and mitigation that you had talked about potentially in the past? No real change there? No real change.
We're comfortable with the prior guidance of about $480 billion risk-weighted assets by year-end 2012.
Okay that's helpful.
Back to GWM.
I'm just trying to envision what we should really be looking for in terms of how the expense dollars might evolve.
As you complete the systems integration first of the legacy Morgan Stanley folks and then the legacy Smith Barney people for the next 12 months how will we see that really manifested in the P&amp;L? So the integration spend has been running at about 80 to 100 a quarter.
And we will continue -- we've finished the technology platform this quarter and moved the Morgan Stanley FAs over as I said.
But we are continuing to spend as we go through the training of the Smith Barney FAs and running in parallel to ensure data quality data integrity through kind of mid-next year.
And so you really start seeing the benefit of the integration spend rolling off more towards the back half of next year.
Got it.
And is all of that captured in the I think you said $98 million type of numbers that you've been telling us each quarter? Is it integration or it's more than that? Yes that's the integration spend.
Okay.
So that's what we should expect to see go away but not any other costs of supporting legacy systems that somehow aren't captured in that? So to be clear as I said it starts rolling off because we continue to do -- we get the Smith Barney FAs moved on on the second half of -- or at the end of the first half of next year.
And then we have incremental work with the Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management system but it's rolling down through next year.
Got it.
And then final...
There is another aspect to it which we have not quantified but clearly is going to be a focus.
Once you integrate the systems you're putting 800 branches all on the same system.
That means all the branch office infrastructure is now coordinated.
So where we have capacity utilization issues say you have 2 offices in one regional city a couple of miles from each other we can't move those people yet.
We can't consolidate the infrastructure.
We can't get rid of dead real estate because they're in different systems.
They'd be moving to an office they might be on the wrong system and all their clients' records cost bases on accounts and some would be gone.
So once the integration is done we have a lot more flexibility as to how you manage across those 800 branches.
Right.
Yes I kind of thought there had to be more somehow.
And does that include the fact that even at the branch level you might have what that then will be sort of redundant systems and operations folks? I mean again we haven't quantified that.
But that will be the work that gets done once you're all on one platform.
Got it.
Final question that I have relates to the monolines and how those positive revenues this quarter negative last quarter related to the -- the actual underlying positions that those things were put in place to hedge I mean I've had some discussions with clients this morning about should you back that out or add it back in the first quarter? And I guess to me what's really relevant is to what extent did that revenue actually or positively to offset losses in what was clearly a very difficult distressed mortgage-type environment.
Can you give us a little color for how to think about the 470 in that context? Sure.
So we adjusted -- we obviously adjusted the hedges.
If we had not adjusted the hedges we would have had losses again this quarter.
And so the risk management around this was an important part of the story and the outcome.
I think more broadly within our Securitization business if you're asking about mortgages that is consistently a very strong business for us.
We traded and risk managed well in what was a difficult market.
We were off from a very strong first quarter that was driven by client demand but still had good performance in that business and are really pleased with the work the team did in what was a challenging market.
Got it.
And maybe just a little more color then on what kind of adjustments you made to the monoline hedge to get a better outcome? So as we've said in the past we constantly evaluate the position and adjust the hedges.
And we'll continue look at the position and assess where we think it's best to be and where we kind of where we think the position of the markets will be.
One of your competitors earlier this week had mentioned that Europe and Asia were particularly weak.
And if we look at your results obviously we saw that in Europe but did not see that in Asia.
Asia was actually very very strong for you guys.
Can you give us some color and context around what drove that significant performance this quarter? Well overall we have a very strong business in Asia across Sales and Trading Banking.
I think one of the points though to focus on quarter-over-quarter is we did have the loss in MUMMS at our MUMSS joint venture last quarter.
So when you normalize through that we're basically in line.
But I guess again it goes -- the strength that we saw is because of cost of the businesses Sales and Trading and Investment Banking.
Europe was strong in our equity underwriting area as I noted large rights issues and IPOs.
But fundamentally it was a tougher market in Europe with the backdrop of the European sovereign crisis.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess going back to equities.
Obviously a very strong quarter for you guys and you guys were the only ones that were up quarter-over-quarter versus your peers.
And I know you mentioned volatility I know you mentioned prime brokerage but can you give us any additional color as to what really helped to drive that? I think the strength of it as I've already noted was that we had breadth across products and around the globe.
And so that's an important part of the franchise.
I'd say on our Prime Brokerage business the revenues were up meaningfully versus the prior quarter.
But as I noted balances were up only modestly.
And what we're really focused on within Prime Brokerage is the adjacencies across the equity franchise.
So we think that's again this notion of connecting the dots across the business and the benefit of really leveraging what we have across Morgan Stanley and you see that in these numbers because even in a market with lower industry volumes and cash equities our business is continuing to do well.
I guess I wanted to come back -- a couple of issues have been brought up.
First on capital.
I guess when you reiterated I guess what you said in the past but if you are going to be at a roughly 10% Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III wondering what -- how you think about what level you wanted -- would actually want to run at relative to the SIFI buffer assuming let's say you're 9%? Would you look to run at a buffer 100 basis points or so to that? And do you think it's important to be there immediately? Or other firms have suggested they might lag into it.
And I ask that in the context of whatever decision you may want to make around the next Smith Barney purchase opportunity.
So it's obviously a topic that's in flux.
But the way we think about it is we expect our to SIFI buffer will be around 2% based on the guidance we've heard.
We are hoping we get some final clarity resolution by year end.
And our view is that although there are theoretical kind of phase-in through 2019 from everything we've seen so far we think the market will expect us to be at those types of levels much sooner than the kind of 2019 Basel grid.
And so we're looking to run closer to that number sooner.
And our expectation is that with much higher capital levels not only has the required percentage changed but obviously both the quality of capital and the calculation of risk-weighted assets is different so it's meaningfully higher which means that our buffer on that number appropriately could run at a lower level at about 50 or 100 basis points.
I think we're still trying to assess what level's appropriate.
But I think the added factor as we think about it and very much to James' point is we continue to operate in a very uncertain environment.
The macro backdrop is uncertain.
And we think that having this type of very strong capital position does give us some flexibility which is important.
Strong capital and strong liquidity really provide a kind of fortress foundation and it give us the flexibility as we get greater clarity on what is the SIFI buffer what is the phase-in to then assess what's the best next step and the most optimized views of that capital to drive returns.
Okay.
And then as it relates to all of that and in Smith Barney.
Is it if you by the -- if you do buy the next 14% next year does the impact to Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel III actually -- is it fair to say that's probably a bigger increase than what the cost of that piece would be? In other words there is a revaluation of what's remaining that would drive RWA up as well? No I think what we're most focused on is -- what's an appropriate price is in the best interest of our shareholders and that's really the factor that would drive what's the adjustment to book value.
It's not really an RWA kind of an RWA concept as much.
Okay all right.
And then I wanted to just ask separately on coming back to VAR.
The increase I guess the rates and the credits were up about 25% sequentially.
And I just wanted to square that with the there's the commentary around client close being lower sequentially.
Were there more concentrated positions you built around your risk book during the quarter? So our VAR was overall in line with where we've been running it for the as I noted for kind of since fourth quarter '09.
And similarly in the credit rates line you'll see the same kind of trend.
I think what's notable is at the end of the first quarter we were running with VAR above $134 million.
And the average this quarter was up some from that but came down at the end of the quarter.
And so our ending number was $129 million.
Why? Because it was really towards the end of the quarter really in June we started seeing more concern amongst investors with the ongoing issues in particular in Europe.
So we had good activity.
And I think our view very much across the franchise is that what clients expect of us is content with a point of view and that we put balance sheet and risk around that to facilitate trading where it makes sense.
And I think in particular in times like this they're looking for a point of view and that's what our team is very much focused on.
So the volumes that you saw coming off of the first quarter persisted for a good part of the second quarter and then came down towards the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just last question.
On commodities specifically that VAR came down.
I guess 2 questions.
One was commodities actually positive in the quarter? And secondly was that a business that you pulled back on in terms of capital deployment or that was just not getting knocked around a lot? Revenues were positive.
And this was something where again it was business leaders' view based on activity they were seeing with clients which was quite muted given the -- what was going on in the broad markets.
Everyone basically stepped away from that market.
So on the flow side as I noted given the dramatic swings that were going on in particular in oil energy were strong.
It really drove a lot of the activity to the sidelines.
And similarly there wasn't much on the hedging side given what was going on in the market.
So this was very client-driven less activity really stepping back from the market after what transpired throughout the quarter.
Thank you so much for joining us for our call and we look forward to speaking to you again in October.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!