Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q2 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Colglazier please go ahead sir.
Well thank you Jonathan.
Good morning everyone.
And I’m glad you could join us today for Anadarko’s second quarter 2014 conference call.
I’d like to remind you that today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements and certain non-GAAP financial measures be aware that actual results could differ materially from what we discuss today.
And I would encourage you to read our full disclosure on forward-looking statements and the non-GAAP reconciliations we’ve included on our Web site and attached to last night’s earnings release.
I would also like to introduce the newest member of the IR team Robin Fielder a petroleum engineer and she recently moved over from running our East Texas operations.
Robin succeeds Bill Tedesco who has returned to our exploration group.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Al Walker and following his remarks we will open it up for Q&amp;A with Al and the rest of our executive team.
Al? Thanks John and good morning to everyone on the phone.
Our operating performance was outstanding in Q2 further demonstrating that our strategy portfolio and employees are all aligned to deliver strong results and shareholder value.
In the quarter Anadarko delivered record U.S.
onshore growth on a same-store sales basis by growing year-over-year U.S.
onshore volumes by an incredible 117 000 BOE per day.
About half of which was high margin oil this volume growth was equivalent to adding an entire midcap company organically.
We also advanced our Gulf of Mexico megaprojects on schedule.
And we recently enhanced our liquidity and financial flexibility for continued success.
Our U.S.
onshore portfolio delivered tremendous growth in the quarter.
The biggest contribute was Wattenberg which grew an impressive 39 000 BOE per day sequentially 80% of which was higher margin liquids.
The growth in the Wattenberg field has been nothing short of exceptional and was driven by our horizontal program coupled with higher NGL recoveries from the start up of the Lancaster plant and lower line pressures in the field as a result of our mid-stream investments over the past several months.
In addition to our Wattenberg and Eagle Ford positions we have another significant emerging oil opportunity in the Wolfcamp Shale and the Delaware Basin in West Texas.
Our ongoing development program has been very successful to-date and we’re working to optimize spacing lateral lengths and completion designs.
We’re also further evaluating the resource potential of our 600 000 gross acre land position due to success outside our previously defined high confidence area and well performance significantly exceeding early expectations for the production of high margin oil.
For example one of our best wells to-date has been a one that averaged a sustained 30 day production rate of almost 1 800 BOE per day and is located north of an area we previously designated as having a high confidence characteristic.
In total this emerging area has grown sales volumes of more than 5 500 BOE per day net over the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to expand our infrastructure in this area to facilitate future growth and we are looking forward to share information on this program in future quarters.
Additionally the Eaglebine in Central Texas the Powder River Basin oil opportunities and the Niobrara Codell formations in Laramie County at Wyoming are all showing very encouraging results.
At these developing areas of activity become more significant we look forward to sharing their performance in our future expectations.
And the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we’re advancing on schedule for first oil this fall at Lucius.
All the major construction is finished and we’re in the process to completing the development wells.
We’re also looking forward to first oil at Heidelberg in 2016.
Construction on the spar is nearly complete and drilling is underway at the first development well.
That’s just a few of the quarter’s operating achievement.
I encourage you to review our second quarter ops report available on our Web site for more highlights and details about our strong performance this quarter.
Turning to the financial results we generated free cash flow and ended the quarter with nearly $5.4 billion in cash on-hand.
We recently arranged additional financial flexibility through a $3 billion five year unsecured credit facility along with a $2 billion 364 day facility.
We additionally entered into the bond market for the first time in four years by issuing $1.25 billion of securities at very attractive pricing.
Subsequent to quarter end we also received 335 million from our first WGP secondary offering.
I will remind you that we still own 88% of WGP with the current market value of about 11.3 billion which for those that recall is about 3 billion higher than when we spoke to you at our investor conference.
Going forward based on our impressive results so far this year we’re again increasing our sales guidance for the full year this time by an additional 5 million BOE at the midpoint.
This represents an almost 10% production growth over last year on a same-store sales basis.
As we have consistently demonstrated since 2006 we will continue to be one of the most active companies in our industry managing our portfolio.
We expect to close that previously announced transactions and you should expect us to continue to monetize additional assets to realize value when it’s appropriate.
Beyond the recent increase to our dividend we also continue to pursue various methods of accelerating and enhancing the value embedded in our portfolio such as additional WGP secondary offerings and evaluating our substantial mineral interest ownership that we quantified for you a few weeks ago.
So with that we’ll open it up for questions.
And thank you again for your participation this morning.
Let me ask you a couple of questions.
First just starting off with a big picture question if you think out three to four years how do you view your current mix of unconventional conventional how do you view that? And do you see a significant change in that I mean do you expect to get more active as far as the Permian and some of these on-shore shales I will just I will leave it at that and let you answer that? Alright.
Well let me start David with thank you for the question and second I think one of the things that we are first and foremost is an exploration company.
So I think as you think about capital allocation we will continue to be the kind of explorer we have in the past with allocation going to exploration on a consistent basis.
As far as the production mix in the next say 3 to 5 years as an interim period it’s more likely that that mix will increasingly become more on-shore given the past capital allocations that we have made but I think in a 5 to 10 year horizon we believe a mix of conventional and unconventional as we have been allocating capital for some time is the right way to think about how we will provide you and others with transparent growth that will come down only from the conventional assets that you know about today but some that you don’t as well as a unconventional position we have on-shore.
Alright.
Okay let me chop up that and let me ask just about Colorado and all the noise out here with the initiatives and et cetera can you just talk about how you view that issue and then if you assume the initiatives past like what could you do internally or from a corporate perspective as far as reallocating dollars just how do you see that playing out? I know it’s a sensitive topic but.
It is and I understand the question and I appreciate the question.
So thanks for asking it.
I think for those that live in Colorado and understand it sometimes the politics there are something that is hard to always appreciate.
I was reminded the other day through someone else of a Churchill quote that I always loved and things that maybe it is appropriate here and when you think about it simply as when Churchill was asked one time what he thought of Russia he referred to it as a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside of an enigma.
And in some ways it is a little bit of what we are dealing with here.
We don’t know what the ballot initiatives are going to look like because they are still being formed and so I can’t do anything about describing to you what those ballot initiatives are actually going to look like.
And more importantly I don’t know the rule making around those would be in the event that we were unsuccessful.
But I think today our view on that is just simply we just can’t speculate David.
I don’t think you would expect us to and we can’t.
And I think and additionally we have committed as a company as an industry to educate voters.
And I think we are doing a good job of that.
We still have a lot of work to do as it relates to that education.
I think as both through educational mediums as well as trade groups we’re trying very hard to be sure that voters understand what they’re voting on.
In a state where a third of the registered voters are Republican a third are Democratic and a third are independent it’s a little bit different.
It really is a purple state in lots of ways.
But as I am sure you’re well aware whether it’s the Senate race or the race for who is the next governor there is not one major politician from either party that has come out in support of the ballot initiatives.
And I think without sounding politically charged and actually trying to sound apolitical here it doesn’t seem like either party has much affiliation with the ballot initiatives.
The business community have certainly lined up against it because of what they see it would do to the state from both the growth perspective a tax perspective jobs and most importantly from a revenue perspective as it relates to education schools infrastructure and other things if the only gas business not just Anadarko had been at the forefront providing since 2008 as the states come nicely out of the recovery from the recession.
So I am encouraged that we have a lot of the right things on the ground being considered by people who at this point are listening.
And I think we will continue to provide education and make sure that people understand the facts and not to the graffiti.
Good morning Al and congratulations on the quarter.
As you think about the Delaware Basin and the next like David Tameron’s follows three years seems reasonable.
Can you talk about infrastructure build out and kind of capacity around both getting oil but as importantly getting gas and potentially liquids out?  David this is Chuck here and thanks for the question.
We are as noted in the operating pool we’re really excited about the Delaware Basin and we continue to rollout incremental news on it.
What we’re seeing is our high confidence area has been performing very well and you can tell that from the lift in volumes.
These are great wells.
And then we’ve continued to drill outside that.
We have a four-rig program that we’re working outside the high confidence area and it’s starting to deliver really good results.
We noted those also in the operating report several of the wells of over 1 000 barrels a day average for the first 30 days.
And so as you are aware overtime we’ve been drilling Bone Springs and Avalon wells out there so we have the backbone of the infrastructure to allow to us get these wells online to a point all that infrastructure is starting to get crowded these are such big wells when they come on at a 1 000 barrels a day you eat up a lot of infrastructure really quickly.
And so we’re working on every element effectively from oil takeaway to gas handling and processing and power and then water sourcing for our completion activities.
So each one of those are constrained I think we have a fairly good plan to move each one of those four.
We are actively investing and expanding those infrastructures infrastructure positions and we can -- it is much like Wattenberg when we started we had the backbone of the field there to work with to get the information we needed to right size and make some fairly good pretty big concept function changes in infrastructure and that’s what we’re planning and doing in the Wolfcamp because it’s a significant piece of business for us.
That Wattenberg is a good analogy can you remind us like how much capital you invested in Wattenberg as you built out the capacity to hit the numbers you’re at now and would that be similar amount of capacity for the Delaware and obviously that could be future drops to your MLP but don’t have to go there yet? David I don’t have the exact number for the Wattenberg number.
I think you can probably look back through the west filings and figure out what kind of how you those have on and is a good proxy for the amount of infrastructure you need that.
The exception is we will work on each element of this and it will take us a couple of years.
This is another situation where this field is just -- it is big it is high rate stuff so we’re going to get in points where we tight like we’re going to be here bit and then we’re going to be -- we don’t have a lot of a running room for awhile.
So it will be a very similar analogy to Wattenberg.
Al just one quick question on the other topic that we’ve been getting a lot of interest around it is the minerals and royalty control and ownership and the value of that and you all have done in the past around portfolio management I want to give the opportunity just for you to talk about how you think about the value of that revenue stream and the growth around it? David thank you I appreciate the question.
I am going to actually turn it over to Bob Gwin and let him address that because he’s the one who has been working most diligently on it.
David yes you guys have seen the number we put out some numbers a few weeks ago updated them last night.
Obviously the royalty steam is growing but I think it’s important to understand that that royalty steam is not homogenous.
We gave a little bit detail around it.
There are hard minerals that growing a little bit but obviously the land grant stuff around Wattenberg given the tremendous growth that we’re seeing in the Wattenberg has much higher growth curve associated with it.
So if you annualize that first half number that we put out last night $385 million we start to look at something in that $770 million range versus the last year number that was a little bit smaller.
It gives you a feeling of the overall growth rate.
And we’re spending a lot of time right now looking at those different cash flow streams understanding different ways we might accelerate value associated with them and that’s something that we want to take our time in doing.
We have been working on it for awhile.
We thought that it was important to get the information out to the streets so that everyone from a transparency standpoint everybody understood kind of the scope and scale of what we’re looking at.
And how we proceed with it is to be determined and something we will be talking about with everyone in the future but I think it’s not necessarily a one-size fits all approach for the entire cash flow stream because as I mentioned they’re not homogenous.
Good morning gents.
Al given those results we don’t blame you webmaster for putting out the results a little bit ahead of 4 PM but my attempt at… In this technologically driven world we are part of Arun and sometimes things just happen and it was unfortunate we’ll make sure that it never happens again.
But anyways I will move on real quick.
I did want to talk about if you could go through kind of the sequential improvement at Wattenberg I think you grew 39 000 BOEs a day could you just break that into the different buckets clearly Lancaster was a driver but I just wanted if you could walk through that sequential improvement in volumes? Yes Arun this is Chuck.
There’s really three buckets that we can put it into it’s -- the first one is there was a lot of pent up capacity that we had built through the last few quarters that we’re waiting on the compression and then Lancaster to come to play.
And it’s in the order of about a third of it.
And then once Lancaster got on we were able to move those volumes through the system we have an NGL with Lancaster it’s a high capacity plant it has fantastic recoveries it’s been running really well.
And it did something for us that we couldn’t really quantify if you take a look at Wattenberg the way the infrastructure was laid out back several years ago the old plan was actually way south to the field so when we put Lancaster right in the middle there we completely changed the flow dynamics of the field.
And that unloaded the field and that was part of that quote as well.
And so about a third of it is associated with just the improved flow dynamics that materially reduced our line pressure so we’ve given the wells the capacity to flow we’ve improved the flow the flow characteristics once we got on flow and then we had better recoveries at the plant so each of those were in the order of a third in the uplift.
Chuck your peers up north have also added some infrastructure when you think about the O'Connor plant et cetera.
is there something unique about your midstream set up which is allowing you to deal with the line pressures perhaps a little bit better than up north just looking at recent history? I am not real familiar with all they are doing how they are operating I know that we -- it took us awhile and we made some big moves to get ahead of ourselves on the midstream sense.
So we had available flow capacity.
So we build this big 300 million a day plant and we added a lot of compressions.
And I think the other advantage that might have that I am not certain how big of advantage it is but the trade with Noble we really quote up and so our wells we have the capacity to really optimize our field flows.
And with the highest oil cut wells the lowest GORs we can work ourselves up and with the advantage of west and owning the infrastructure a combination of optimizing our flows and optimizing the midstream gives you a lot of flexibility to whatever the market conditions are whatever the export conditions are we can take fullest advantage of it because we sort of have the entire input to it.
So it’s been a great position I am really proud of the fact that years ago we went in and we got the midstream position into Anadarko then we bought the Wattenberg plant we have made a critical investments in compression and additional processing and we’ve changed the whole dynamic by repositioning the plant to take full advantage of all that infrastructure.
So it’s been a great story for us.
And we have talked about that Coral Spring I think you are just feeling it right now.
Okay.
Arun this is Al if I can just add real quickly to that.
And I am going to sound overtly braggadocios and I want to apologize for it.
But I think this really does underscore the difference in owning and actually being in charge of your infrastructure and being able to handle managing your growth by having a midstream organization that is synced up with the upstream.
And I am not sure that always gets through light of day but I think this quarter is a great quarter to highlight just exactly how important that is and how differentiating that is for us.
Clearly that was the case in recent history.
Just about a follow-up would be to Bob Gwin I know you’re evaluating your minerals position just a quick question I know in 2004 you guys did a forward sale of minerals so it has forward sales have been in your DNA how do the rating agencies Bob look at forward sales things such as minerals they would look it as debt? No they did not in the past when we did that deal back in 2004 that’s now matured.
And I guess the way we look at forward sales as an option going forward that it has a certain implied multiples associated with it and certain of the other structures have implied multiple associate with them and multiples are often closely linked to growth rates.
And so when we look at the forward sales I think like any sale of any asset rating agencies are going to consider the effect on the overall portfolio and so one of the things we’re trying to do is to look at a balanced approach that considers sales along with potential other vehicles that could help us to prescribe a much more significant multiple to the cash flow stream that is embedded in Anadarko’s existing trading multiple.
I think we’ve made pretty good decisions in the past and we’ll do the right thing at the right time going forward to try to maximize the value and then be in a position to redeploy proceeds as effectively as possible.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Just a quick question from me in regards to the Eagle Ford you guys had another great quarter here in terms of growth and I know it doesn’t maybe get as much air times the Niobrara in the Delaware Basin recently.
But just curious industry continues to push the envelope in terms of completion innovation in the play with higher stage density and more top end.
And I was wondering if you could remind us kind of where your current completions are in the Basin? And then any opportunity set to increase either propane or the number of stages going forward and maybe some of the impacts that may have on kind of the productivity here?  This is Chuck again thanks for pointing out the growth of Maverick I hope everybody saw the 47% year-over-year growth which is quite an asset particularly when you think about 67 000 barrels a day and that production nearly 200 000 barrels a day gross production so this thing is really taking off the guys down there have done a fantastic job and we’re really proud.
And part of it has been our completion efficiency that has given us that better amount of production.
We actually continue to test a lot of different variables there.
If you recall back at our conference this spring we put a graph in there that showed how we’re trying to optimize density fracs and AUR or value.
And that’s the same work we’re doing better than Maverick.
We intended to tighten up our clusters and we intended to pump more sand.
Water is an expensive commodity down there so you really have to optimize around it.
And we have a lot of recycling efforts that are going on to continue to cut that cost down.
But effectively it looks like bigger is better to a point down there.
Our least position allows us to drill long and long laterals so we’ve been pushing those out.
And the combination of these longer laterals higher density fracs but better fracs we think and we push more into the old window have just continued to push our liquid growth up and really deliver some really high quality economics down in the Eagle Ford.
Al and Bob I am sorry for beating on this royalty issue but I wonder if I could just ask you to help frame a little bit more this whole process of yours.
You have given us the breakdown obviously you’ve got a lot of strategic I guess benefits from being involved in some of these areas where third party operators are perhaps leading the exploration.
I am thinking of Wyoming for example you get a good idea of that all process.
But is it more likely that we should frame the hard rock minerals as a potential monetization vehicle or would you encourage us to think that it really could be much more material than not as it goes to the oil and gas as well? Doug we’re really not in a position today to answer that question because what Bob is trying to do and doing a pretty good job of is not just isolating what he thinks maybe one or two opportunities but rather what is the full birth of what the opportunities that looks like and then what’s most optimal for us.
He has done a really good job so far with the land which he and others have monetized things in our portfolio.
I think Western Gas is a clear success story associated with that.
But exactly what we’re going to do is it’s still early.
I think the important thing for us at this juncture is to give you and others are very clear sight of understanding around what the opportunities look like the medium by which it’s still indeterminable for us.
And probably we’ll be provided some time in the near future.
Thanks for the answer.
I don’t know if I could just take out one other quick one.
This is an exploration question and in specific to the result in Coronado.
I wonder if I don’t know problems on the line but if you could give us some help understanding any implications for the wider Shenandoah you know connectivity features I guess and any update on how you might see plans for that asset as we go forward and I'll leave it there? Yes Doug on Coronado if you remember the most recent appraisal well was to test the Miocene objective and the Miocene was something we found in the initial well a little over 300 and some feet or bit oil and good reservoirs and of course we have the lower tertiary discovery there too which was what we announced.
We kept the Miocene quiet because of some lease sales coming up that we thought we want to have some competitive info on.
We presently put that position together.
We are now with the Coronado 3 to test the concept of expanding the Miocene and we went to the south and east and we actually didn’t find this sand at all.
And so we’ve taken that data rolled it back into our seismic interpretation.
We got some new seismic processing in there and what it looks like it’s actually we have to go the other direction to the West.
And so we’re working net whether or not we want to do that has or next activity or drilling other above tertiary appraisal well in there.
We have plans right now to be back at Coronado because we will be the operator now back in Colorado after all Shenandoah appraisal.
So we are still incorporating all the information in but that’s where we sit right now.
Maybe following upon the deepwater Gulf of Mexico question realizing that not all drilling results are kind of created equally can you walk through before that you shared with us Coronado Deep Nansen Bimini and K2 and what the learnings or takeaways were from those at least on the surface in non-commercial? Okay this is Bob again David.
I’ll start with Bimini.
Bimini is a dry hole.
We looked for a Conger lookalike structure there.
Miocene sands up against salt in the throughway position didn’t find the sands on the trapping configuration pretty much contained in that area or their prospect.
The area is obviously very good with Conger and ball plate and power play out there.
When you get into the others as I mentioned with Coronado what we found there the deep mantle is a very interesting one and that we are looking for a lower tertiary objective over in the Nansen Boomvang area.
That’s very well removed into the north and west of where industry has been playing a lower tertiary.
So it’s quite a step out in fairly high risked both reservoir presence and reservoir quality and then what the petroleum system would look like.
The results of the well are actually fairly encouraging for the area.
We have a significant acreage position out there.
And we have additional prospectivity and we’re trying to incorporate what we learned on the deep Nansen test into those perfect to see how it impacts the risk.
But basically we found evidence of the working petroleum system and there would be a liquids petroleum system which was a very positive thing.
We found some very good reservoir back there which was not necessarily whatever we would have anticipated.
But we found some very high quality reservoirs which is very encouraging for the area.
What we didn’t have was a good seal and it looked like we blew the seal at Nansen and that’s what led to the hydrocarbons being trapped in the shallow horizon soft Nansen at Boomvang.
So we’re rolling all that information in and see where it takes us on the follow-on potential.
But as I said we got a significant acreage position out there that we can look at.
The other Wells all right K2 the tail.
The K2 tail was really -- I will let Jim talk about what K2 well was because the primary thing there was to drill a development well and it was very-very encouraging.
The tail was put onto just test lower tertiary underneath existing infrastructure.
It was unsuccessful again looks like it was a breach trap and probably that’s why we have the hydrocarbons in the shallow objective.
With that I’ll let Jim talk about what the well actually found.
As Bob mentioned the K2 well was primary targeted with the Middle-Miocene and we’re excited about the results.
We found better than expected total net pay in the Mid-Miocene section and we also targeted the one interval which was secondary interval for coring to do further work on porosity and permeability relationships.
We’ve seen some interesting information on that.
The plans for this well as Bob mentioned we did an expensive tail end to the Wilcox will allow us to further gain information in that areas but more importantly will come back sidetrack that well later this year and complete in the Mid-Miocene intervals and have that well on production.
So again the results were positive and the Miocene we’re excited about the development in the future.
Great.
I appreciate this clarification maybe jumping over to Laramie County for a moment where you guys are going to be doing 70 wells or as 40 more for the balance of the year here can you talk a little bit about the economics of that at this junction specially given the mineral interest that you own there and kind of how that sets up going forward for you from a comparative basis versus economics in other area? Dave this is Chuck.
We put in a pretty good program.
We are working up there with EOG is the operator in most of the area and they have been drilling Niall and Codell wells very similar to our Wattenberg targets.
They have had really good success and we’re the partners with them.
We are in because of our mineral position associated with the land grant.
Few of the wells have much time on them with the little early to say it’s going to deliver X or Y top of economics but the early returns look good.
We’ve got some nice rates.
They seem to be holding up.
They have half flow in pressures.
And what we’re going to do is it’s a township but so large that they’re currently working in right in the land grant.
And so we’re going to continue to participate in the wells because since that we have with the early returns as they’re going to be extraordinarily economic comparable to our Wattenberg economics not the size of resources that we see.
Because of the mineral interest benefit they have just fantastic economics at least in the early stages.
If you think about maybe by next year we’ll have 180 plus days of production on some of these wells or maybe even little more than that we can give you some real good EUR information and tighten up the economics.
But now I would assume they’re pretty close to Wattenberg economics.
Great I certainly appreciate the clarifications great quarter guys.
Thanks most things have been asked.
With Lucius what’s the volume ramp going to be I mean how quickly you’re going to bring up the well? John this is Jim and we’re out visiting the Lucius part here weeks and I just want complement our team for taking that project to schedule on time and on cost.
They have done a fantastic job.
So what that will enable us to do is start initiation of hydrocarbons through the spar here early fourth quarter.
All of the main subsea and textures completed.
They’ve finalized oil and gas export rise or pull with pressure testing and they’re going through the final stages of commissioning on the top side.
So we’re on target to start initiating hydrocarbon through facility early fourth quarter.
Okay thanks next one with the one in the Cote d'Ivoire how long that is like 90 day well for pay on? John this is Bob Daniels.
We’ve got three wells we’re going to drill in Cote d'Ivoire.
First one is going to be an exploratory well Camaro and then we’re going to go Palm drill the appraisal and then we’ve got another exploratory well.
Each of those are probably going to be 75 day wells we will see we’ve had some very drilling performance here recently in Liberia and so if we get that kind of performance we might cut some days off.
But right now that’s about what they’re scheduled for.
Okay thanks.
Last one for me is on the Marcellus.
You guys seemed to be the adults in the room you’re not adding rate have you been looking any other ways to evacuate gas from the basin in terms of other infrastructure or you just going to wait until things tighten up? So John thanks for the complement.
We are looking at additional way as you know there are several other large infrastructure programs coming out of the more sellers and we’ve signed up a bit of firm participation.
Our firm space on each of those that are coming out of the North Eastern portion of the basin.
So we continue to watch the situation carefully maintain our leases and try not to add to the problems.
So I anticipate that as each one of these large infrastructure project is come on particular in the next couple of years though fill up really fast just with the capacity of the basin.
And in the two to three year timeframe you’ll start to see things normalize and hopefully that’s when we had economic will improve to the point that we would want to go really executing on our inventory which is pretty significant out there.
Hi.
Question on Mozambique one would be high level where -- could you give us some color on where the project is.
And the second is how do we think about the CapEx profile in the next say handful of quarter’s couple of years? Okay.
Bob this is Al.
Thank you for the question.
As you might have -- there’s a lot of above ground issues that we’re dealing with right.
And I think I’ll have Jim walk you through where we are on some of those.
And for an exploration standpoint it’s probably best that Bob address some of the questions and they are associated with that as we are kind of moving from the exploration to the development stage and our formulation of our plan of development.
So things in general are moving in a good path but last progress being made on the things that we need to see above ground so with that this sort of introductory and framing.
Jim will handle the first part of the question.
And then come back and handle the exploration component with Bob and if I could I’ll have Bob Gwin finish up the CapEx portion.
Thanks Al.
We have many steps towards moving in the direction of taking FID and some of those steps that have completed or securing all the necessary access to land we have 27 square miles blend and secured for the LNG part with all of the appropriate engineering studies and soil studies on that.
We’ve also advanced the competitive feeds both on the onshore and the offshore so we’re evaluating those feeds and moving towards selecting contractors towards the end of this year.
We’ve also received approval on the environmental impact assessment and including all of the public concentrations so that’s moved positively.
We’re also advancing the engineering pioneer construction early works just on the planning phases for the marine facilities airport infrastructure necessary to move the project forward.
So we’re seeing a good advance in the hard side of the project which is the planning and the engineering.
And the marketing teams will also move very strongly.
We’ve got 6 million tons per annum of premium Asian market secured a non-binding HOAs and that being said the space of this project will really be dictated by the speed of which the government can deliver what we team has contractual fiscal legal stability through enabling language which in the three law which is currently been discussed and followed.
We’ve got this port to the President of the Minister and the Council Administers and act that enabling language and we look forward to following session and hearing the next few weeks so we’re getting clarification of what that looks like.
And Bob on the exploration side going very well over there last year we had a significant discovery with Orca and that’s added to our resource range.
We’ve been appraising that we have drilled the Orca before.
Well this year we also have been doing additional exploration because our exploration term expires early next year and we want to make sure that we’ve fully evaluated the block.
We earlier drilled Tubarao Tigre which was a Paleocene discovery that was our objective down there.
It looks like it could be fairly significant.
So as we move into next year we have the potential to need some appraisal work done there and we’re presently drilling an exploratory well called Ourico Do Mar which has a Eocene and Paleocene objectives we just our about mid way on that so too early to say anything.
But again with the success there that may lead to the need for some appraisal work on it in the following years.
But right now everything in Mozambique from a drilling perspective is going extremely well.
And then from a capital perspective I want to first point to the sale down that we did that we close earlier this year the after tax proceeds there about $2.1 billion.
Historically we had spent around $1 billion and so we’ve recaptured our historic capital investment and then add about an extra billion one or so to continue to deploying the projects.
So by selling down about 30% of our prior interest we’ve reduced our capital burden and we have received the cash that we need for the equity funding component to rough first production with the balance to be covered by sensibly right project financings.
So the capital burden is not big relative to a company Anadarko size but we feel we’re a bit immunized against it we’ve de-risk the project and it doesn’t therefore take away from our ability to use our capital on our short cycle projects growing onshore in the U.S.
or developing our global exploration development program.
Bob I’ll just finish up this is Al with one last comment.
I think you have heard us many many times talk about our interest in trying to monetize things that we bring forward some of our longer cycle spinning to bring the value of that forward in the form of cash or in the form of carries that are more tax efficient in the U.S.
And I’ll just continue to emphasize where we can and when we can we see and recognize the value and bring forward those values in ways that is necessarily is much creative is just they make good capital efficiency sense.
And I think that’s something that we do quite well as a company I am very proud of it and have done it for a long time.
And you should continue to expect that the way in which we’ll think about running the railroads.
Al going back to the earlier questions on Colorado I was expecting a different Churchill quote from you maybe another one where you said you can always count on the Americans to the right thing after they have exhausted all the other alternatives.
I’ll have to put that on my Churchill quotes to remember for Colorado.
It might be too optimistic but it depends on how many alternatives you think there are suppose.
But being serious about Colorado for a moment here one of your big competitors or industry partners out there in the DJ recently talked about moving or actually recently talked about doing their first couple of plug and perf completions and had some really good results there.
And as I appreciate some of the smaller operators are experimenting with the plug and perf versus I guess the incumbent kind of completion technology is sliding sleeves.
And so can you give us a sense of where you are on your mix on -- what percentage of your completions are plug and perf sliding sleeve and in what direction you might be going? Sure you bet and there is nobody better to answer that question specifically than Chuck.
I am going to brag on Chuck and his leadership because one of the things we do is we try to use what we learn from each of these shale plays and apply them to other ones.
And one of the reasons we’ve been so effective if you hear recently in the Wattenberg as we’ve taken the learning from the Eagle Ford and other places where we’ve had success but lot of learnings from the Eagle Ford were applied to the Wattenberg because Chuck creates such a great environment for that exchange to occur between these groups and people certainly have the right incentive to share those.
And so even for a company as large as our we don’t get into the towers of knowledge and don’t share it.
And it’s easy to say and hard to do but is really one of the true values of which there are many that Chuck brings to the table.
Charles the situation on Wattenberg is we actually use both circumstances dictate where we use which completion technique they both have proven effective in various applications and we’re going to continue to experiment with both and try to get the best out of both for quite some time.
I think the plug and perf were for quite some time now and it certainly has its applications it has a little tighter precision with regard to where you pump the fracs and that type of thing.
But we both have great applications both are seeing great results and we will continue to use both.
And then shifting over to the international front I know the two guys have I believe doubled your position in Columbia and you are setting up for a couple of exploratory wells in 2015.
I know it might be a little bit far off to do so now but I wonder perhaps Bob if you could give us a sense of what those targets are going to be like and whether that can be first half of ’15 or back half of 15 and anything else that you think is important for us to understand about that? We like what we are in Columbia.
I think that was evidenced by our bids in the most recent big round picking up another 8 million acres.
And right now we have a total of about 16 million acres in offshore Columbia deepwater and what drove that was we acquired a large 3D in the southern portion where we would be drilling our wells last year.
And then we acquired 2D up in our Coral 2 block and based on what we’re seeing on that data and some very-very sparse regional there that led us to say there is a lot more potential here than perhaps industry would realize because we had the proprietary data.
And we identified where that was and went after it and we are very pleased to be able to lock up those three blocks.
Our plans for drilling that would be starting in the first quarter probably 2015 where we bring in rig from West Africa.
That one is going to finish up in Cote d'Ivoire block.
And to start the drilling activity we have got two wells formally planned for the next year.
And then with success additional drilling we’ve got permits working through that would allow us to continue to do what there in Columbia.
The potential that we see there is I would say from a sentimental logical and structural standpoint very similar to what we saw in Mozambique when we first went in.
It’s a linked extensional compression oil system.
It’s a massive sand systems coming in from the DELTEX.
Big deepwater fans that are fairly evident on the seismic data and are very-very strong evidence of working petroleum system and in fact we think it should be a liquid dominated petroleum system because of the La Luna source rock that is present in Columbia and in the upward areas and the thermal regime that we are encountering out there so a lot of positives going forward.
It is a frontier exploration area that everything that we have seen first we would like to have more of it and we are able to control three more very significant blocks out there.
You’ve talked a 5% to 7% multi-year production CAGR but you praised your guidance twice this year.
You’ve highlighted Lucius and Heidelberg is coming on over the next couple of years.
Just to put this into context are the strong results that have driven the guidance increases here more quarterly noise because of the timing of unlocking midstream connectivity or is there a well performance driven improvement such as what Chuck was referencing a couple of times on the call that should push us and yourself to a higher range than 5% to 7%? Brian the short answer -- the really short answer here is yes to both questions.
I think if you go back to a year ago we started highlighting on the call on our second quarter of last year some of the infrastructure issues we were dealing with was land pressures and talked it in length about what we were trying to do to alleviate those.
And I would like to see that even with whether it is 100 year or a 1 000 year flood we still overcame the weather issues that occurred later in the third quarter associated with just how we get everything working so well in the Wattenberg.
Our group in Denver that’s managed through the catastrophe as well as being able to handle all the technical issues we are getting in the Wattenberg where it is today is just a phenomenal job.
But frankly they did the job that if you are thinking back a year ago Chuck previewed for you that we were going through the expecting and while we were going through that time they refer it to as a growing pain.
And when you’re managing and earning and controlling your infrastructure you do have the ability to do some things that others don’t.
And I today we are seeing the benefit of that and that’s why I can answer yes for both questions.
We are seeing great well performance and we are seeing tremendous midstream performance.
Does that then put you more toward the upper end of the range than or it’s the 5% to 7% still a good way to think about things? I think one of the things you recall we do every year particularly in the second quarter but mostly in the third quarter is pretty healthy amount of weather downtime into our views and so you got to keep in mind some of our views around what we’re doing in the second half of the year and a little bit of weather is there.
Cash flow growth most likely which is most important to me.
I think you can see cash flow growth above that threshold of 5% to 7% and that probably would be my preferred way to answer.
And then shifting to Permian Basin you mentioned that you’re going to be doing a bit more work on the upper and lower Wolfcamp B Benches.
Can you talk about the characteristics that you see there what your thesis and how that may or may not vary across your position?  Brian this is Chuck.
Today we primarily focused on the upper A bench we call it the beta.
And it’s done a fantastic job for us.
And then as we look at petro physical properties of the other benches in area which is lower A and upper B and the lower B.
they all have had similar characteristics they are not quite as extensive across the position they vary in thickness and water saturation that kind of thing but they all seem to be perspective and we’ve started our testing procedure we actually have successful wells in most of them and some of our neighbors have successful wells and those that we don’t.
So we’re starting to feel pretty good about the general prospectively of the area and we’ll be working a larger percentage of our program going forward into those other benches to really get full view of how the field should be developed.
And I’ll remind you that we have about 600 000 acres out in the Delaware Basin for the punching the basin spine.
So we’re very fortunate to be in a position where we have lot of information coming in there is lot of industry activity around this.
So I think we’ll walk through this delineation program fairly quickly.
Just given the amount of information we’ll generate and what we’ll get from others and we participate in some of those wells as well.
So my sense is that those benches are fairly perspective maybe not quite as expensive but still very perspective and the early returns look positive for us.
So I am really excited about it it’s a big field.
Brian this is Al I’ll add to that in addition to what we’re seeing from well performance which is just very much in its early days and I know you know this but we’re sort of slow to talk about things till we see well performance and consequently don’t want to get ahead of ourselves with what our expectations are until we have more of that in hand.
But as we’ve done another places we’re already at midstream solutions to a lot of this volume that’s going to find a home and be evacuated and the ability again to have that midstream component with upstream as we have it and the success we historically have with Western Gas and what we’re doing here feeds right into what we believe is in the fair way of what Western Gas does well.
I think you should expect that these things are being worked pretty hard because we do see as Chuck mentioned tremendous opportunity here solving that through midstream solutions through our midstream group in conjunction with what we’re seeing from an upstream perspective will again be pretty differentiating.
And just one quick question in Laramie County Chuck you certainly had sounded enthusiastic of with what you’ve seen.
At what point do you guys step in to do some operator activity.
You need to see a little bit more of that non-op stuff come through or do you feel pretty confident right now where you can start putting on rigs to work.
Scott it’s a good question.
We have large positions surrounding this area through the land grant.
So we have a lot of optionality and we’re preparing to operate some additional wells around it as the delineation program expands outward we’re not going to jump ahead of it and trying to taking unnecessary risk when it’s coming to orders.
That land grant position as you know we hold it forever so we’re in a great spot to watch and learn and as soon as the information dictates that we should move forward we will.
How is the infrastructure relative to some of the other places is it pretty tight there where it doesn’t make sense to get too fast right now? Well there is some challenges like there are many areas I think one of the things we’ll be working on as a good guess of acquisition plan and trying to leverage our position either up and Eastern Wyoming or back down into Colorado.
To bother you again with the royalty question but could you breakdown perhaps the upstream revenue between op and non-op or give some color there? It’s not a number that we’re comfortable sharing publicly to this stage there is a material amount of non-op revenue currently with high-quality operators.
And as you know especially when you look to the land grant acreage in the Wattenberg field we’ve got a very material operating position there itself.
In the Southern Region it’s a mixture.
In the Gulf of Mexico it’s largely non-op today but from overall perspective trying to keep that number quiet for now as we put together the information and decide what is appropriate to share in the future when we’re able to discuss more specific plans and the characterization of the cash flow around those plans.
So I am on the right path here.
As part of the challenge it is fair to say is to sort of have more certainty on the volumetric change in the royalties versus just being a price vehicle? It’s partially that I think the key is -- we’re ever not going to be quite around this it’s just that we feel that it’s important to do the homework and to decide to what these vehicles or these approaches that we might take with look like before we talk specifically around characterizing the cash flows and operator ship around those cash flow.
We continue to work the land grant acreage in particular pretty aggressively.
It’s evident by some of the things talked about today on the call.
We are doing farms out.
We are doing acreage drop.
We are doing lots of things that will affect the future cash flow growth of our mineral interest.
Most of things that my groups were focused on right is the cash flow stream and the existing cash flow stream the existing lease hold interest that and ways that we can maximize the value to Anadarko in the short term in some cases and in the long term another cases.
We did that with MLP with Western Gas.
We took a long-term view IPOed it 2008.
IPO the GP then at the end of the 2012 and built many billions of dollars of long-term value.
There were different ways we could have approach that back in 2007 and we’ve taken approach that as I mentioned earlier I think in hindsight reflects well and decisions we made.
And we’re just trying to make sure that we take a measured and highly analytical approach to how this affects Anadarko’s broader portfolio and business over a longer period of time.
Yes really exciting potential you have.
One thing I’d like to add.
Subash I just want to add to what Bob said that is as we look at our investment alternatives that royalty stream certainly plays into those decisions.
That’s a significant value accretion to this and so we take that into account and it certainly plays as part of the decision.
And when you look through the Rocky and where the activity is the land grant is featured pretty heavily and not just Wattenberg or Laramie County but the Power River Basin and even out in west as you go through Wamsutter and Moxa continue west.
So there is a lot activity on it and we try to encourage additional activity on it.
There is small farm out and drilling programs that will continue to add to that equation.
So it’s right in center in mind and I think that’s a good thing for the long term with the growth of that profile.
And final one for me if I can I know it’s getting.
But in the Delaware Basin when you look at the zones that you’re completing in can you talk to maybe the shale composition there versus the more traditional shale plays obviously Eagle Ford and Marcellus et cetera that you’re involved in? I don’t have all those mineral compositions in front of me but it is comparable shale to the midland basin Wolfcamp as well.
And lot of the learnings as Al mentioned earlier that we’ve seen in Wattenberg and Africa as we’ve started approaching the appraisal program in the Wolfcamp where we used direct learnings to get a long way down the road quickly.
And I look at this thing -- even after two or three wells we saw this is something that would be really exciting for us.
And the further we’ve got into we’ve done optimization with completions and that type of things.
I thing the key issue right here that we see is if you look at the price it is significant on the per section basis.
We talked about it in the conference call at Investor Conference call earlier this year.
There is 100 million barrels per section in place.
And so this is a thick organically rich oil saturated shale and it clearly has good flow characteristics when properly stimulated and it has three or four benches where you can access that big thick column and so we’re going to work hard on optimizing it.
And working our recipe to make sure that we’re getting the maximum out of it and does that price are significant and we want all of it when we get.
Sure.
Great job so far.
And finally sorry -- just on the hurricane outlook this summer usually you build a buffer I think you talk to it a little bit in response to Brian question could you -- is there way to be more specific? Are building a similar type buffer for the hurricane season in this year’s guidance? Yes.
Subash it is called glacier as always we provide a risk operating profile that takes in the account whether downtime as well as non-facility downtime to run the upcoming quarter that’s probably the best we can give you.
So we’re rather late just a question on your outlook for the U.S.
crude market lot of moving pieces you yourselves are creating a lot of supply growth and others are as well just curious what your latest thoughts are on sort of longer term dynamics? And the impact that could have on price realizations and alongside that perhaps a comments on any opportunities you see on taking advantages of some of the recent ruling your decisions out of commerce departments on exports for condensate? So this is Scott Moore Joe.
Thanks for the question.
I’d say our early outlook particular like the international benchmark for Brent remains strong market is tight their capacity is low supplier outages are pretty strong the 3 million barrels a day and demand growth is returning to long term trends.
Question then of differential to Brent for TI and LLS relatively we have pretty good realization to ultimately stable to LLS as far as exports and the opportunities there I think the key for us is that Eagle Ford is a common say to what people are really discussing and for us we have a light oil that’s sold at a modest discounts to LLS for quality under long term contracts so we’re not really experience some of this economic pressure for contract discounting that drives the export demand from our other producers.
So we’d be a secondary beneficiary that with support of other should it happen but we don’t require from that backs to be strong.
Thanks Joe.
And for those of you who are still on the call we didn’t get to I apologies we’re sense it’s a fact there’s other calls going on today and you guys and your times very much in demand.
I do want to say thank you again for the comment and questions this morning.
We thought we had and believe we had just an exceptional quarter in the second half of the year is really shaping up to be every business expiring as the one quarter we have just finished here in the first half of the year as well.
It’s been a great quarters.
It’s been a great first half of the year.
The employees of Anadarko are very proud of what we’ve been able to achieve for our shareholders.
And we look forward to doing that again in the future.
And for everyone on the call have a good day and safe travels.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!