[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you about debt repurchases that I think you did during the quarter maybe you can give us a sense for amounts timing how you think about that repurchase activity as part of your kind of long-term capital management plans.
Then I have a couple of follow-ups.
So as I noted the amount we did buy debt throughout the quarter.
In particular as spreads widened we bought debt towards the end of the quarter.
We thought it was a profitable smart move to make.
Just for your reference the debt buyback is reflected in the other revenues line just so you know where to find it.
And I think our view is again it's about prudently managing the liquidity portfolio.
So we were early focused on those maturities that in particular are caught in that 12-month period of time but as spreads widened it's just a wise prudent move to make not just continuing to act appropriately as a market maker but the right answer for our shareholders.
And so I think we'll continue to monitor it and do what's in the best interest depending on where the market is.
Research Division</strong> Is it ever possible to include in that debt repurchase significant amounts of the structured products that give rise to the DVA? Or have you thought about anything else you could try to do to do some -- put on some hedges or something now to try to lock in some of these very significant gains? Well 2 parts to your question.
One we do buyback structured notes.
That's reflected in the overall debt repurchase number that I gave you.
And with respect to hedging we don't hedge DVA the noncash item and we don't hedge to manage an accounting result.
Our view is it's not worth the expense and we really run the business based on economics.
But we do as a regular matter buy some of it back throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Maybe you can -- I don't know if you've got the numbers that you'll use in the Q for the monoline CBA in terms of the gross counterparty exposure the CBA adjustments and the counterparty hedges there.
If you have those at this point they would be useful.
So the monoline number is $284 million.
I think I gave that.
And that obviously CBA is included in monolines but there's more in that number as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I'll just follow up with you off-line just to sort of see if we can update the 10-Q disclosures without having to wait for those to come out.
And then I guess the final question I have is on GWM.
You talked about the fact that you had $90 million of the restructuring costs still in there and yet it certainly looks like you're capturing some significant reductions in costs especially on the non-personnel side relative to what we've seen.
Are we starting to see some benefit from moving on to the new systems and being able to stop supporting some of the legacy stuff? Or is that something else going on? We are pleased with the progress on the integration having completed the platform moved to Morgan Stanley FAs onto the platform and the success we have with it and benefits has been another way.
We're able to move the Smith Barney FAs on to that platform earlier next year than we have previously anticipated which is helpful.
Part of the margin benefit this quarter as I noted came from the lower FDIC fee than we had previously expected coming from the Citi side.
But very much to your question Greg Fleming is very focused on expense -- disciplined expense management.
And that is a core part of what he's continuing to focus on with the team.
It's reflected in a number of different ways but one example that I gave was the reduction in FAs.
And what he's focused on is reducing the lower-productivity FAs and that brings with it some incremental cost savings as well.
So yes the core part is expense discipline.
Research Division</strong> And let me ask a capital management question finally that kind of ties in with MSSB as well.
Obviously you have approval from the Fed to purchase Citi's remaining stake in the JV.
And your current capital ratios are all certainly very strong in all the relevant measures but your stock is so cheap.
I just wonder what's your strategic attachment to moving forward with the MSSB timetable for repurchase relative to using some of your excess capital and liquidity just buying the shares here.
Guy it's James.
The strategic intent is pretty clear.
We want to intend to own this business.
But timing of executing on that is flexible.
And we built in that flexibility when we negotiated the initial deal with Citigroup.
Whereas you may recall it's in 3 stages beginning in May of 2012.
And it is an open-ended call option where we have the right at that point to exercise the first next May first 14% but not the obligation to do it at that point in time.
We're obviously aware of where the stock is trading right now.
It certainly feels a little better than it did 2 weeks ago but it's not where we think it should be.
And it's something that we'll take into consideration.
But May is a long way off and we've got to be careful not to mix long-term strategy with short-term tactical optimization.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you'll make game time calls as necessary.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> All of what you say on funding risk exposures liquidity makes a lot of sense.
But whether it's a result of market rumors or not I guess the reality of the situation is the CBS spreads widened during the quarter.
So other than DVA and the opportunity to buy back debt I mean how exactly does that widening impact to -- what all you have to do on a day-to-day basis and in the client-facing business? When CDS in particular widened it's clearly frustrating when we look at what we were seeing in the number of liquidity the exposures.
What it did result in is a lot of what I think it's fair to characterize as very productive conversations with clients.
We're able to talk about the changes we made that James really opened with the business mix the approach to liquidity funding capital.
How we fund the firm fundamentally different than it was years ago.
And that was I think quite productive.
I made comments with respect to how we think about funding the business.
Our view is that we've seen a bit of moderation here in spreads.
And hopefully with the incremental information that will be helpful as well.
But we're certainly thinking about all options and have a lot of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up to that can you specifically discuss what if any movements you had in the prime brokerage balances during the quarter and maybe how much additional collateral you may have had to post in some of the over-the-counter transactions again if you see any meaningful changes in there.
Well the simple answer is we didn't see any meaningful changes.
In the third quarter as I noted PB was one of the better performing businesses in equities that we did see an increase in the number of clients.
And as we moved into the fourth quarter we had some balances move out.
We had some move in.
Where they were moved they were more likely partial than more than that and the business remains very strong.
It really did benefit from the changes over the last several years the focus on relationship management the focus on really working with clients across the platform this topic of benefiting from adjacencies and institutional equities.
So we really didn't see a meaningful change.
A lot more conversations but not substance change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just returning to the monoline exposure James.
You've done a good job of leading the charge to clean up legacy issues of the firm and noted your desire to kind of achieve acceptable returns over time.
So I'm just curious what's the feasibility and appetite to effectively remove this overhang once and for all free up the risk capital lessen the volatility in the earnings stream is that doable? I think you've got to play this out over time.
I think we've managed -- Kenny and the team have managed the exposure much more aggressively over the last 12 months.
And I think the results show that.
We had a positive return in the first half of the year.
We had a deficit in the last quarter.
But we've got to manage this over time.
There's a lot of complexity around the exposure and it's not something that we are chomping at the bit to have results tomorrow.
Research Division</strong> So you've spoken loud and clear on liquidity rising PB actually not affected the number of clients actually went up.
Just curious finishing off on the hoopla on the quarter were there many novations away in the quarter? It sounds like you defended the fort great just figured I'd ask.
No.
Simple answer.
Research Division</strong> On the liquidity front and we have some upcoming debt maturities but obviously you have lots of liquidity to handle that.
What's the right -- how do you strike the balance? What's the right long-term average maturity or duration of the debt outstanding? It's come down over the last couple of years to about 5 years and I didn't know how you strike the balance.
Maybe that's in response to the balance sheet coming down.
Well the reason I gave the roll forward is I think one of the critical elements in sizing a liquidity reserve is whether the likely outflows in a stressed environment -- one of the clear outflows that we can measure is what are upcoming maturities over the next 12 months.
And the fact that maturities are coming down indicates that with the current liquidity reserve if you roll forward to the first quarter and your outflows from that point on are $10 billion lower you have flexibility within your liquidity pool.
So we ended the quarter at $180 billion.
We're sitting there today at $180 billion.
That gives us a very nice liquidity pool going into the fourth quarter in particular as our near-term outflows are declining because we're really knocking off the maturities as we go through the balance of -- because we have reserve for all of 2012 at this point.
So that's probably one of the most important ways to think about how do you size liquidity reserve.
I think as it relates to WAM long-term debt WAM it's generally in the same area.
And we're trying to manage what we think is a prudent level.
And as I've said also when we look at what we're doing in the secured book I think we were early and quite aggressive and thoughtful in pushing out WAM in the secured book and have continued to have that extension of WAM serving as well with the durability you've seen in liquidity.
Research Division</strong> In FFIEC if you add in all your comments on both DVA from both quarters and the MBIA gain and loss it looks like FFIEC was only down about 4% quarter on quarter just want to see if I did the math right.
And then just curious on what got better since Barclays because something clearly got better.
So we did see greater stirrings coming into the latter half of September.
I think the strong areas I've highlighted rates in particular performed very well.
And I would say commodities was strong in particular as we went through the balance of September and up nicely granted off of a weak second quarter but a strong performance.
The tough area continues to be credit.
Although I think there was some moderation there as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last very simple one.
You mentioned the cost saves projections going up net of the cost to implement.
How big are we looking on the cost to implement? We haven't broken that out separately.
But the way to think about is in 2011 we're not indicating any savings.
And the reason is we're really investing or spending what we need to do in order to make some of the moves in particular in technology and location sourcing that will then yield benefit 3 years out.
Research Division</strong> Question related to FFIEC.
I guess there are a couple of hung deals during the quarter in the syndicated loan market or leveraged loans Kinetic Concepts and Blackboard.
Just in aggregate how much were the write-downs on the leveraged loans that were on your books? Well the write-downs were about 400.
Research Division</strong> So all things equal that should go away if the market stays stable? If the markets stay stable it should.
I mean obviously we're mark-to-market.
I think when we look at the loans and in particular the ability to move loans through -- that the thing that we point to is that the loans have been very well structured with covenants and pricing flex that give us the ability to move some of this.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any other sizable negative mark-to-market adjustments in FFIEC.
And if so which businesses? No.
As I indicated the tough market across the board was in credit.
But no there's nothing else to raise.
Research Division</strong> And as far as the outlook in the leveraged loan market there's been a little bit more noise about some issues in some high-profile companies.
Have you pulled back there? Or can you consider those one-off events? Industry-wide you saw volumes were down meaningfully in the third quarter.
And I think really what we're seeing at this point is financial sponsor activity is also down quite a bit.
As we look at the M&amp;A pipeline it's strong it's very healthy but not seeing real preponderance or the growth in sponsor activity.
And so at this point what we're focused on is leveraged loans in the pipeline and ongoing syndication.
And as I indicated with pricing flex we have the ability in our view to execute on this.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just your outlook for the fourth quarter.
With the way the markets have been should we expect something similar to this quarter? The wild card as I indicated continues to be the macro environment.
So the pipeline in banking overall is healthy.
I just commented on M&amp;A.
The equity pipeline continues to build.
And our view is that with some moderation in the VIX we should start to see more of those deals working their way out of the pipeline and into execution.
And the benefit is not just within banking but clearly goes to the secondary trading also goes through the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
So that's going to be an important driver and hard to forecast.
What we're seeing though healthy volumes on the banking side.
And I think a lot of the real challenge in credit but hopefully it starts to moderate given how tough it really was the levels at which we're currently operating.
So if you can give me the outlook for the macro I could answer your question more directly.
Research Division</strong> If I can squeeze one more in.
The compensation ratio seems a bit higher than some of your peers probably a lot higher than you'd like.
Is that because you gave some guarantees to new traders or what's happening there? Definitely not because of guarantees.
Year-to-date -- just let me break it down.
First of all obviously the firm compensation ratio is affected by the compensation ratio in MSSB which is as you know formulaic running at 60% plus.
And so that's one important differentiation from other firms.
Within ISG excluding DVA it was at 51% this quarter.
That brings us to about 46% year-to-date.
And what we're continuing to be focused on is ensuring that we can appropriately compensate those that are delivering returns for the franchise while balancing with what we need to do to deliver returns for shareholders.
So it's a balancing act but I did want to at least catch you up on the year-to-date 46% give you a sense that the third quarter had a bit of a catch up in it.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on equities.
You guys highlighted high levels of client activity.
But if we x out that DVA revenues were down a bit quarter-over-quarter just trying to get a sense for what the right flow level is there? Was there some noise in the last quarter that maybe we should be looking through as far as maybe some benefit from positioning? Or can you help me kind of get my head around that one? Certainly.
So the performance was off of a record second quarter.
There are I think probably 2 items to highlight.
One is that a lot of the activity this quarter went through the electronic trading platform or MSET electronic trading platform which is a terrific asset but it tends to be lower margin revenue than broadly in our cash equities business.
So that's one driver to where is that revenue coming from.
The second as I noted is that the second quarter tends to be seasonally strong in Europe on an annual basis.
And so we were -- we knew that coming off of the second quarter we had that strength in the second quarter that wasn't going to flow through to the third quarter.
That was well offset in certain regards with the strength in derivatives and cash equities and PB.
But it did create -- it explains some of the difference.
Research Division</strong> Yes tough comp okay.
And then just quickly on peripheral European exposure the table is great.
Thanks for that.
Is it possible maybe for you to give us an idea of the impact of collateral on the net counterparty exposure column that you've got in there? So the net counterparty exposure line as I indicated captures a number of different things like repo transactions.
So it's really running a matchbook and so we haven't broken that out.
Research Division</strong> A lot has been covered here.
I guess on VAR I wanted to ask you the interest rate VAR came down I guess that was an average basis.
I guess one question do you have the end of quarter VAR? Was it any different? And b just want to kind of square that with the market share gains that -- it sounds like you continue to make in the third quarter or just the activity levels were a lot higher so there was less capital commitment required that brought the VAR down? So overall the -- if you follow with IR I think we have all the breakdown of the various categories which I don't have in front of me.
I think the main point VAR did come down because we saw starting mid-June client activity really coming down.
And I think this line item which I found helpful hopefully is for you to break out credit portfolio VAR just focus on where we're making risk decisions today really punctuates the point about the extent to which risk is lower this quarter than it has been actually in quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes -- no I was asking about the interest rate VAR.
In that table in the back that came down.
That kind of stood out given the increased commitment you've been making in that business.
Right.
And that I think that really goes to it's very much of a flow business and so you don't see as much VAR utilized there.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
The debt that you repurchased during the quarter what was the -- can you say what the gain was on that? It was less than $100 million in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you blocked out like companies are with stock repurchases around earnings or I think can you buy debt any time? On debt repurchases there's a window when you're blocked out so we bought not all the way through the quarter because there was a bit of a block out again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there probably wouldn't have been an opportunity to buy yet this quarter? No I think it's 2 weeks on either side.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Just I guess I know there is not a lot to really answer on Volcker but as you look at -- to whatever extent you look at the draft yet did anything -- or what stood out as surprising relative to what you expected to see from discussions that you've had with the regulators in the preceding months? What stood out to me was that a simple proposition of ensuring that depositor institutions don't take on aggressive proprietary trading was converted into 290 pages with an additional 394 comments questions asking for commentary some of which have multiple parts to them.
I'm not criticizing the regulators this is very a complex thing they're trying to find and fortunately they've opened up a healthy I think it's 5 to 6 months for the industry to weigh in with directive and providing a list of all of the questions that they felt needed addressed.
Everybody maybe not everybody I think most sensible people are trying to get to a sensible outcome which is to protect deposits from the kind of natural crisis we had but not lose any of the robust liquidity strength of the global capital markets.
So we've got 6 months to work on it and work on it we will.
Research Division</strong> Is it your sense James that there's a lot kind of thrown in here to because they've asked a lot of questions that they want to put more rather than less in there and have a full template to work off of? I think it's a reflection of this is a very complex set of changes that potentially going through and they want to be very careful to make sure they get real input from all the market participants to make sure we don't somehow mess this up.
Thanks so much for joining us in our third quarter call.
And we look forward to speaking to you in 13 weeks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!