[Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> James your comments on capital management seemed more definitive on proceeding with the first phase of the buy-in where previously it seemed you were a bit more open to kind of buying back the stock.
Am I reading that correctly? And if so what's driving that change in thinking? Well I think listen the first tranche is only 14%.
It is a core plank in our overall corporate strategy which we've made very clear.
We're very happy with the business.
I know the margins aren't where we'd all hope they'd be at this point.
But the stability of the revenues the stability of the asset flows and the stability of the managed money gives us great confidence in the business.
And frankly we're getting close to the end of the integration period.
So in a tradeoff between sort of financial management being a short-term decision around buybacks versus a long-term strategic management bides [ph] us on the long-term strategic management which is the first tranche of the purchase.
Now all of that said it's subject to price and it's subject to an appropriate price at fair market value.
So if we felt that we couldn't come to appropriate terms we wouldn't move ahead with it.
We have no problem with that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what about both? Would it be a disappointing outcome if you had to choose between either doing the first phase or repurchasing the stock this year? Listen from my perspective you'd take these things sequentially.
I think that you have plenty of opportunities to move forward with buying back stock raising dividends or buying the remainder of Smith Barney.
And what we have tried to do as a firm over the last couple of years is be very steady and methodical and take one step at a time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in equities you both highlighted the share gains within the business over the recent year quarters.
But could you just elaborate on what businesses and/or regions have been the primary contributors and how sustainable you believe those share gains to be? So we've had actually strength globally and across the products as I noted and are pleased with the strength of the global team.
I think that as we've gone through the year you've heard it on both the banking side and the sales and trading side given the ongoing overhang of issues in the Eurozone that's been a more challenging market but real breadth across -- around the globe.
Research Division</strong> And then Ruth quick one on the numbers on that $600 million crystallized CVA gain this quarter.
Can you help quantify what losses to date were on those exposures prior to this quarter's gain? I don't have that.
But that is as you characterized it's a reversal of prior losses that have bled through the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay finally.
And then I know it's early in the year but could you just give a flavor for how businesses is progressing? One of your peers mentioned yesterday business was about the same as the beginning of last year and wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Well with the caveat that it is -- 2 weeks is not a quarter I would say that we ended the year feeling better about the state of the markets.
There's a lot of cash on the sideline from clients.
Our banking pipeline is very healthy.
The equity new issue pipeline in particular has been on hold for quite some time given the volatility in the market last year.
The M&amp;A pipeline is healthy.
So with that very large caveat that 2 weeks is not a quarter it's feeling a bit better.
But I come back to that point there's still uncertainty in the Eurozone there's still issues in the macro environment.
We're feeling better but it's still early.
And I would just add to that on the broader economic front that our view has been that the U.S.
is a little better off than has generally been perceived and that Europe is more likely than not to resolve itself although over a period of a couple of years not a couple of weeks which was our sort of collective attention span in the fall.
So against that macro outlook it is -- we are as Ruth said.
Research Division</strong> If you could elaborate a little bit more on MUFG.
You commented on the funding.
What's your intention in highlighting that so much at the top of today's call? Is it that they are there -- someone with deep pockets if you needed some extra help? Or am I just missing the point? No listen.
How many times in the history of financial services have you seen a cross-border equity investment from one bank to another of this kind and the merger of different parts of their businesses which we do with our securities business in Japan? And so number one there is a strategic story here.
Number two the conversion obviously improved our capital and reduced a mandatory dividend that we were paying.
And I just felt -- and maybe I'm the only one who felt this but I felt that the world at large did not appreciate both the strategic and financial value of this transaction.
And they are the second largest depository institution in the world.
I think they have 70% more deposits than any U.S.
institution.
I may be incorrect on that but I think I'm roughly correct.
And I think because they're in Japan they're just not just as well understood if frankly they're in our backyard.
They're great partners and they have worked hard with us over the last several months to find ways to do business together.
And I think that's a strategic imperative for us to keep growing with them as partners in finding ways to do business around the world.
And I just felt it was important to get that message out there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then one separate question.
When you think about rightsizing the firm the company has hired many employees in the past few years.
And now you need to reduce employees it's always very difficult in markets like this but can you talk about the tradeoff between rightsizing for the current cycle and investing for the long-term? So we were focused on -- have been focused on the pacing of the recovery.
It continues to be slow.
We therefore felt it was appropriate to reduce headcount.
But that reduction is very consistent with what we've been describing strategically and it's quite targeted.
So we've been judicious in investment areas particularly within sales and trading.
So for example in rates which has obviously been a focal area and as I noted up again this quarter up year-over-year.
We've continued to make key hires in research and trading to protect and support those growth areas.
We've also been making taking steps deemphasizing and reducing balance sheet and risk in areas that are inefficient under Basel III.
So for example within our sub-investment grade securitization through 2011 we were reducing risk which not only freed up capital and liquidity but enabled us to make some headcount reductions.
But we have a strong team there that's been proactive and repositioning the business.
And now they are focused on those portions within securitization the higher-quality credit quality tranches that actually are quite consistent with the new Basel III regime.
So what we've tried to do is really strike that right balance between reducing headcount where we were could while making sure we're well positioned for the recovery which as James said hopefully comes sooner rather than later.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you if you could elaborate a little bit on some of the headwinds that you had in 2011 from sort of multiple years of deferred comp.
And if you can just give us a little bit more granularity on how that rolls off after 2011 in 2012 and beyond.
So in Institutional Securities we did take comp down meaningfully per person this year.
And as we said in the fourth quarter of last year call we increased the deferral rate to 60% for 2011 versus 40% previously and made a number of other changes.
This resulted in a higher comp expense in 2011 notwithstanding the decrease in comp per person because 2011 was a transition year with an unusual aggregation of deferrals coming into 2011.
But as James said when we look at that deferral schedule going out from here and going most important into 2012 prior year deferrals normalize and in fact decline in 2012 and we do have more flexibility.
So it's really about 2011 being that transition year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is there any more sort of quantification that you can provide us as we try to accurately reflect this in our model? No we're not doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Wanted to ask about the Global Wealth Management and the divergence in the fourth quarter of the revenue versus the expense trend.
I think you did cover it a little bit.
But it was a pretty meaningful divergence not for the full year but certainly for the fourth quarter.
And yet I would hope that by now we would be starting to be able to see some of the benefit of the efficiency movements that you've made and being able to take advantage of the single platform.
Fair point.
I mean fundamentally we had consistent revenues which underscored the stability of the business.
But as James said the margin wasn't quite where we want it.
And there were a couple of factors affecting that.
As we said on the third quarter call revenues are meaningfully affected by the S&amp;P close at the end of the year.
You know that better than anyone.
And the 9/30 S&amp;P close was pretty depressed.
That is used as the basis for setting Asset Management fees for the quarter.
I think the good news as we're sitting here today is the S&amp;P close at the end of the fourth quarter as of 12/31 was 11% higher than it was at the end of the third quarter.
But that was a headwind for the fourth quarter.
The other thing was there was a lighter equity issuance calendar.
And again that's market-related and hopefully we see some more activity coming out of that new equity pipeline which does remain strong.
The other factors though that were fourth quarter-specific affecting in particular the comp expense.
One we've been taking out -- reducing headcount of the lower performers.
And so we had some severance costs in there.
The other is that productivity of financial advisors has been increasing.
And at higher productivity levels they're entitled to a higher comp.
And this year that was a fourth quarter true-up.
Last year it was a fourth quarter true-down.
And then the other factor I noted is market appreciation from the deferred compensation program that's those that are invested in funds generally flows through the revenue line and the comp expense line so it becomes 0 margin revenue.
And it was really a number of different factors.
But you're right and the focus of the team is very much focusing on expense across the board so that we can continue to drive the margin higher.
Research Division</strong> I have one final question which is just on the Investment Banking and trading opportunities that you might be seeing emerging from the problems that some of your European competitors are seeing and their need to shrink balance sheets maybe faster than some of the U.S.
firms.
Are you seeing significant revenue opportunity starting to develop there? Well we are focused on it across industries given the strength of our banking franchise globally but in particular in Europe.
So on the financial institutions side the expectation is there will be more opportunities to help clients raise capital and restructure balance sheets.
But I think the other factor to consider is it's not just within the state client base.
It's really more broadly across industries.
As we look at in 2008 European banks took share from U.S.
banks.
And that's obviously when this country was going through its capital rates focus and liquidity raise.
And given that European banks are now going through similar issues our view is that that creates an even broader set of opportunities beyond just say again given the strength of our franchise we do see this as an opportunity to gain share.
On the sales and trading side we're well positioned and hope to built off of the momentum that you've seen in some of the numbers through this year.
And then on the balance sheet side I think that again going back to James' comments about the strength of our partnership with MUFG it just further strengthens our ability to help clients in Europe as well.
And I think Guy as you -- in any industry restructuring as the players between sort of 10 to 20 range exit clearly that share is going to flow to those at the top.
And a lot of our businesses were ranked 1 2 or 3 in the key businesses we're in.
So I think there's probably a little bit of a short-term impact but I do think there's a longer-term change in industry structure that should play to our advantage.
Research Division</strong> And is there any sign that some of those changes might be starting to improve market-making spreads pricing? We haven't seen it yet.
Research Division</strong> Two quick follow-ups on FICC and equities.
First in FICC in general whether or not you want to include the CVA changes.
If you back out DVA CVA MBIA is the right starting point for the quarter for FICC on a clean basis going forward $600-ish million? I'll let you judge how you want to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
I can read that.
In equities Ruth your comments were very clear that cash and electronic was a better driver in the quarter and PB and derivs sequentially were lower.
I mean something's going really right in cash and electronic.
And I just don't know if you have any more you can tell us.
Is it what you and James both just alluded to in Europe? Or is this just constant progress and getting a greater share of client wallet? Of course it's a significant outperformance if it's cash and electronic.
It is real outperformance relative to the market volumes that we saw.
With market volumes down there was strength there.
I would say that the strength of the team across products continues to be a real driver for the performance in the business.
And you see it year-over-year when you look at the sequential improvement the strength that we had in derivatives goes back to a lot of the comments we've had on prior calls which is that the team has been focused on really building adjacencies across its business ensuring that we've built up what we did on the derivative side.
You go back 2 years ago when we said we were going to build up equity derivatives.
We had 3 sequential strong quarters there.
And so it's really across products working together as well as they do and around the globe.
So the benefit of the electronic platform is there's still delivery to clients electronic invoice.
It's working well and it's really enabling us to stay as well connected to clients as possible.
Research Division</strong> Sounds like you feel it's sustainable as well.
I appreciate that you are the only person I cover that actually expanded the European exposure disclosure.
But what's the net-net? Meaning I don't know if I heard the "We feel very comfortable we think their exposures are collateralized." And what's your net-net feeling on your Euro exposures? We do feel -- I think you've summed it up well.
We feel very comfortable with our exposures.
We think that continuing to provide the transparency is helpful.
And so we've expanded the disclosure this quarter but we feel very comfortable with our exposures.
We've got a strong business in Europe and we remain present.
But we like the way we've managed over the last several years here.
And I would say Glenn we were never quite in the camp of the hysteria that surrounded us last October about our European exposures.
We're a little bewildered by it to be honest which led us to a very fulsome disclosure in the appendix last quarter and it's been netted to with the unfunded commitments this quarter.
And frankly the position has been improved by reducing one of the larger concentrated positions.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly is the overhang in Europe and uncertainty there is that the major impetus to remove a cloud to get to a higher earnings level? I appreciate all the progress made but I'm sure people are still looking for more in '12.
That is the primary overhang.
This year -- the past year 2011 has the dual complexity of all of the drama around the debt crisis and the downgrade for the U.S.
But as James said I think there are more signs of progress so far in the U.S.
and that the ongoing uncertainty in the Eurozone continues to be a big cloud.
There clearly also is some of the question marks around regulatory uncertainty.
But if you were to rank them I think the Eurozone and therefore the issues that are holding back some clients from executing on transactions is a problem.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just -- you talked about some of the sort of resizing that you've done.
And I guess I'm curious.
How much sort of the forward-looking -- and you said too.
You've kind of identified businesses you want to be in.
But how confident are you around where the outstanding regulatory questions rules around derivatives Volcker are going to land such that that may still be subject to substantial revision going forward? Or do you think you kind of have a pretty good sense of positioning at this point? Well I think as we've said for a while the most important regulatory change are the capital requirements coming out of Basel III.
And I think we have a reasonably good handle on where that is likely to end.
The whole Volcker Dodd-Frank discussions are obviously still very much ongoing as witnessed by the hearings yesterday.
And listen we've obviously done an enormous amount of work internally quantifying the impact of different rule changes what they would mean for our business and so on.
Our base case is not an extreme shutting down of all market-making activity.
And we think that the original concept of Volcker which was to ensure that deposits were not used for highly liquid prop trading should be honored and then we'd move forward with that.
So the regulatory front remains very much in dialogue.
You've got governments around the world weighing in on the U.S.
position to make sure that the various international bond markets aren't disproportionally affected.
You've got inventory management by large institutions like ours to ensure that we can provide liquidity for our clients.
So it remains fluid as you know it.
But we run all sorts of scenarios against it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then separately other sales and trading I was wondering if could give us a little more color on what drove the delta there.
You mentioned hedge gains on owned debt.
Did you repurchase some of your own debt during the quarter? And if so how much? And is that an ongoing activity? Well you got a couple of questions in there.
So the other sales and trading line is as we've talked about in the past is pretty difficult to model.
I appreciate because it has a number of items in it and it has amortizing hedges from debt we bought back in '08 '09.
It has our long-term debt hedging program.
It has our bank liquidity portfolio loan book our deferred compensation plan.
And so sometimes the items all move in one direction and sometimes they're offsetting and so therein lies the complexity.
We did buy back some of our debt over the quarter.
It was a small amount and so that really didn't explain it.
It was really just the various across-the-board items.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Then lastly do you -- similar to what Goldman talked about yesterday on the relationship lending both the CD backstops [ph] is that a big business for you? Are you considering potentially moving to hold the maturity? And tied to that more broadly are there other issues like this that maybe we put in an active mitigation bucket that when we look forward to Basel III helps you to even grow these ratios higher than what the past roll forward [ph] points to? So with respect to lending an HFI fundamentally we are a mark-to-market shop.
I think as it relates to the loan book we obviously have a bank.
We're the 15th largest U.S.
depository by deposits.
And so we're always considering what make sense in terms of capital and funding efficiency.
I think notably in CCAR mark-to-market loans were penalized substantially more than HFI loans.
And our view is it's our responsibility to consider what makes sense for shareholders.
So that is one consideration.
And then the other question I think you're asking is with respect to what other repositioning under Basel III.
And I think we have as I noted continued to focus on 2 things really within Fixed Income.
One is share gains the other is return on capital.
And part of the return on capital driver is really having a forward lens to Basel III requirements and ensuring that we are positioning our businesses to be as capital-efficient under this Basel III regime.
And so there should be continued benefit from active mitigation as we continue to rightsize some of the portions of businesses that are most affected by Basel III.
Research Division</strong> Ruth maybe one follow-up on the expenses.
So you guys have kind of the efficiency initiative over the next I think 2 more years on the $1.4 billion side.
And then you have some of this restructuring.
So I guess just some update on what's going on maybe in the first second quarter on the cost side given some of the more recent moves versus any change on that longer-term efficiency project for the $1.4 billion.
So on the office of reengineering we remain confident with that $1.4 billion that's a target by 2014.
And we're also very comfortable with the run rate target for this year which is $500 million.
The key focus areas are the same as the ones we've discussed previously the highest ones being location strategy procurement programs and tech spending.
And so that's very much on track.
But I'd underscore the non-compensation expense this quarter which as I said was down relative to last quarter.
And that's notable because the fourth quarter is typically our sequential high.
And it really underscores what we're doing at the tactical level.
So if you put kind of the office of reengineering in this bucket a bigger more strategic however you want to define it cost-cutting that takes longer to do because we're repositioning the way we do certain elements of the business and put that to the side.
We also have a tactical initiative and we're pleased with our noncomps because it shows that on even across-the-board small items we've taken a really diligent approach to ensure that we're doing all that we can to control costs.
And that also persists as we move into this new year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then James just on the Wealth Management business so 2 things there.
Just margins in the fourth quarter tend to be low you guys mentioned just given the seasonality of expenses and then given where markets were.
As we head into this year and assuming rates don't change like where do you think margins can get assuming flat slightly up markets? And then just in terms of the buy-in based on what you guys have it marked and where Citi's got it marked in terms of odds of getting that concluded or taking in that 14% stake like if it's somewhere in between like a middle ground is that -- do you see enough value in that business to be purchasing it for some level of that's in that range? Yes.
I'll talk about the second question and Ruth can talk about where we're looking at the margins here.
On the process just recall it's a call option exercisable I think at May 31 or June 1.
If the parties can't agree we go to a third party and it's at fair market value.
I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of mystery frankly irrespective of whatever institution has it marked at is kind of irrelevant.
It's a question of what is fair market value.
And we're both mature grown-up institutions so I think we'll quickly figure out our fair market value.
And if we can't then we'll obviously go to a third party.
So it's not a traditional M&amp;A-type transaction in that the prices are already determined which is market value.
So I'm not particularly focused on that element of it.
And as we said earlier if you look at the strategic rationale for this business it's part of our long-term plan and we obviously count the goodwill against that capital already in it.
So the incremental cost if you will of doing this against the benefit is relatively small to say the least.
Ruth I don't know if we have anything more to add on fourth quarter and where we're looking at this year? Yes.
And the only other thing to add this is our call option.
So similarly our call option on whether it goes to arbitration.
But with respect to margins we're continuing to focus on the mid-teen margin target and the levers that we've talked about remain very much the ones that Greg and his team continue to be focused on.
So on the cost side the lower integration expense having cracked the back on the major expenditures with the technology platform done in the third quarter of last year.
But also given the environment the team has raised the bar in expense management.
And then similarly on the revenue side a real focus on continuing growth of the managed account platform as I mentioned the ongoing growth in lending and a couple of other issues.
And to be clear that's not mid -- That's not 2012 guidance that's kind of our mid-next year guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the risk-weighted assets under Basel I.
I think you said $316 billion.
Could you take us through kind of some quantification of the moving parts? And then I also think that you mentioned sub-investment-grade securitizations having done some work on reducing.
Would that then mean that the Basel III -- is that part of the $100 billion rolloffs? Or does that mean that the $480 billion which I think will obviously has gone down post the MBIA to maybe $430 billion if you could confirm that? Does that mean that that number could be coming down a bit? I wonder if you could help us on that.
So on Basel I why the risk-weighted asset is lower there? They're lower in part as I noted because of MBIA and also the balance sheet's lower.
And so our risk-weighted assets came down in line with where the balance sheet is.
With respect to Basel III what we're really focused on given there have been a number of changes affecting -- in guidance affecting both numerator and denominator over the last 1.5 years when we initially gave out guidance on RWA inflation and mitigation.
And Basel 2.5 has moved from an NPR to 2.5 is kind of moving around.
So as a result what we thought is the most effective and useful is to give you where we are in Tier 1 common ratio.
And our Tier 1 common under Basel III we're comfortable that it's approaching 10% by year-end 2012.
In the numerator we are deducting the MSSB NCI and adding consensus earnings.
And in denominator you have RWA inflation and passive mitigation from here through the end of 2012.
We'll continue to be focused on active mitigation to your question.
And so that remains incremental upside of any active mitigation but focused on the overall ratio here.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we can continue to focus on Global Wealth here for a second.
So you mentioned that by the middle part of the year the integration should be largely complete on the technology side.
What happens then at that point with regards to the number of offices you have? And how do we think about that assuming all else equal with regards to your ability to take out non-compensation? The offices -- we are continuing to look at where there are efficiencies in combining offices.
Sometimes there are sometimes there aren't because you have fully staffed active offices potentially within a similar area.
So you can assume that across the board we're continuing to look at where it makes sense to further consolidate or take or cut costs.
And the team is being quite detailed about that.
With respect to the technology spend and integration-related cost the integration expense does come down.
There is some software capitalization that then comes in so you can't assume it's a cliff that drops off to 0.
But it's come down meaningfully and that's the real point there.
And so we've hit the high point and it's rolling off.
There are ongoing expenses that hit the P&amp;L and then the other expenses that the team can focus on include everything that you can imagine all the details within the P&amp;L to do whatever we can to drive margin.
Research Division</strong> And so the integration costs this quarter were roughly $70 million or so and you expect that that should trend down a little but not get to 0? The point is the integration expense comes down to 0.
But I just wanted to make it clear that from a margin impact that there are offsets to that namely I think the one most relevant is software capitalization.
And there's some other items that continue to flow through the P&amp;L once we're steady-state.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on for me -- so thanks for the color earlier on into the very early 2 weeks of the year here.
Obviously a lot of us track activity levels and they certainly seem weaker.
But I wanted to focus in on one area that's more difficult and that's credit.
I think that that's the one area where we look at that we can actually see some good results if you're thinking about credit tightening and structured credit trading.
Is that an area that's been something that's been better than we saw in the fourth quarter which was down -- better in the first quarter that was down last year? Well again it's very early too early to say.
I think that the marks that we -- the pain in credit in the third quarter was acute.
And as I noted it was modestly -- it was better this quarter but still not running at levels that are consistent with historic levels for that business.
We have a very strong credit business broadly.
And so there is upside as credit markets continue to heal.
But I would say that given that the major overhang as both James and I said is the Eurozone crisis and/or uncertainty in the Eurozone it's too early to make a call on that.
And with that we look forward to speaking to you on our first quarter call.
Thanks so much for joining us this morning.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!