[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the meaningful improvement across the sales and trading franchises I was just hoping you could share some thoughts on how you separate what's market-related versus what's related to pay off from all the investments you've made over the past few years.
Well I think we have to start with the investments that we've made over the last couple of years.
What we saw this quarter was real strength across products and across geographies and no one particular driver of results.
Across the 5 businesses all growing kind of within a narrow zone rates FX corporate credit commodities and investment grade securitization.
And what we've been talking to you about over the last number of quarters quite long number of quarters is that we felt there was real upside as we moved back in the flow an area where we've obviously been strong for many years but had underinvested for a period of time and our view was that we were punching below our weight and have the opportunity for market share upside and invested in particular in rates and FX and those were 2 of the important drivers.
I think the other big driver here was we talked internally about adjacencies when we talk about your equities business the benefit of adjacencies which as we've talked about before looks at working with clients across the platform.
And that approach is very much reflected in the way we're running our Fixed Income business as well.
It starts with the leadership team.
It starts -- and then goes to our Senior Relationship Management program our SRM program and that's yet another investment.
And then the third is really the technology investments that we've continued to make.
That in particular is one I've highlighted over time and it's true again this quarter for our foreign exchange business benefiting from our electronic trading platform.
So those all go to investments.
I think the fact that we started the quarter with a lower balance sheet and lower inventories really underscores that this is less about marks and more about flow and engagement with clients.
And so I would say it helped that there was a -- have a constructive environment no question but it goes to what we've been discussing with you repeatedly quarter after quarter the investments in the business and the focus.
I think also Howard the -- I would just take into account the leadership team Colm Kelleher who we put in that job a couple of years ago and Kenny deRegt and Ted Pick in Fixed Income and Equities respectively.
This is now a very seasoned team working extremely well together across the firm.
And I do believe the leadership makes a difference.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And switching gears Ruth on the new held-for-investment disclosure you had a near doubling of the HFI portfolio in the last quarter.
Now is that a function of new clients or active refinancing? And as that portfolio grows how do you think about the impact to your stress capital ratios earnings volatility and hedging costs? Well that's really the driver of the move.
We're clearly a mark-to-market shop as we always talk about but we are a bank.
The 15 floor just depository ballpark today and pro forma for the incremental MSSB deposits will be ballpark the 12th largest depository.
And as we talked about last quarter under the CCAR scenarios the impact of loans under HFI were less punitive than fair value.
And as we're looking to continue to build out our bank consistent with other banks' practices and regulatory guidance we've been focused on what's in the best interest of stakeholders.
And our view was that if HFI is viewed as a -- or results in being a more capital-efficient way to run the lending book that's the appropriate way to migrate our lending book.
And so what you've seen here is that movement to HFI this quarter and you'll continue to see that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to the Moody's review could you just comment on what a downgrade means to you and what you're all doing to prepare for and maybe prevent a potential downgrade? Sure.
We've done a lot to narrow the impact of any potential ratings change and view that -- and our view is that the impact of potential outcomes are manageable.
Obviously ratings reviews started a few years ago first with S&amp;P and then with Fitch and now with Moody's and so we have had time to prepare.
And so trying to get some perspective on how we look at it or how we think about the impact structure derivatives is obviously the most affected by ratings change but it's also an area of focus for regulatory reform.
And as we've reduced the scope of our structured derivatives business that's very consistent with our change in business mix toward cash and flow products.
And that's been kind of an over time and I just comment on with respect to what we're doing broadly in Fixed Income.
But what that means is at this point only 8% of our ISDA contracts have triggers within the Moody's potential range which helps reduce the size kind of step 1.
The other key point is that a large amount can be centrally cleared and we were early and aggressive to move to central clearing and become client-central clearing broker.
Two of the largest fixed income asset managers were also easy -- early in moving to clearing and we won mandates to become their clearing brokers.
And the trend towards clearing is clearly ratings diagnostics so that further reduces the pool that’s subject to impact.
And then beyond that we have a higher graded derivatives entity and we've slowly been moving derivatives into our bank.
So that kind of sizes and brings down the scope within and hopefully underscores the couple of work streams which underscore why I started by saying we think the potential outcomes are manageable.
The other point I think is really key is that none of our funding has ratings triggers.
So that side of it is very easy to address as well.
I think across the platform we've done a lot to narrow the potential impact.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful Ruth.
Maybe just a quick follow-up on the ongoing business.
At a percent of figure you noted is that just number of ISDA contracts or is that -- what does that mean as a percentage of maybe revenues or earnings contribution today? Yes that is 8% of ISDA contracts and that's why I kind of started there and then went down to what are the various incremental steps that we've taken.
I think the other thing I would point you to is that we're still A-rated by S&amp;P and Fitch and a lot of clients are doing their own credit assessments so hard to gauge how that translates into any other impact on the business.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if we -- if I could just follow up on what you're talking about just now with respect to the Moody's.
I know that that moving contracts into better-rated entities was pretty far down your list of actions that you've taken.
But I'm just interested in the idea of using the bank’s unit and any other entity that you might have developed and sort of how sizable you think that could be in terms of helping you mitigate the impacts.
Well with the respect to the bank broadly our strategy or objective is to build a robust national bank that's consistent with our Wealth Management business and building a balanced portfolio of assets in the bank systematically.
And I've talked at length I think on 2 different topics that are relevant to that.
One is building our lending business of institutional and retail and two is moving derivatives into the bank.
And when we've talked about the lending business in particular on the retail side I've talked about this being a flow systematic steady build building out the suite of products that we're offering to our retail clients taking our time to build that out so that we've got the right credit and quality control over the build.
That's one key portion of the asset side.
And the other is we have talked about before slowly systematically working to move derivatives into the bank.
We started with FX and rates will follow.
And our view is the result of both of those steps will be a balanced asset portfolio against $60 billion of deposits with another $60 billion of deposits to come as we buy in the remaining Morgan Stanley Smith Barney stakes over time.
And our view is and have been that we have a higher rated derivatives entity to the extent it's needed and have stayed on this course of a longer-term approach to moving more derivatives into the bank.
Research Division</strong> And the bank deposit build on the retail side is directly related to the percentage ownership of the joint ventures isn't that right? As we exercise various tranches of the remaining buy-in for MSSB we -- with that comes the pro rata portion of deposits correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I was hoping that maybe you could talk about the restatement of your capital allocations on Page 5 of your supplement.
That's always an incredibly helpful disclosure by the way as I think we've discussed before but you did restate it.
And I'm not sure I completely understand what the footnote is telling us.
So there -- I think one of the key things -- I'm not quite sure what you're referring to but one of the things as we've allocated here on capital back to MSSB the reason we increased the allocation to MSSB was consistent with guidance that came out during the CCAR process which is that associated with NCI under Basel I one now needs to allocate capital for that NCI.
We have been doing that under Basel III and we talked about it last quarter that we had moved from parent capital into MSSB the NCI portion of capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just on the Institutional side on the restated basis that you now showed us.
I noticed that the capital allocation fell by almost $2 billion in the quarter.
Is that related to the reduction in VAR and the reduction in the legacy MBIA position? Or is it something else? I'm not sure.
Why don't you follow up with IR on that one? Research Division</strong> First on the Wealth Management business.
So you had the improvement in the margin this quarter.
Given the integration costs I just want to make sure is it that simple meaning as the $75 million or so of integration expense comes out we should see that 11%? I think if I just do the math it will move up to maybe 13% 13.5%.
And then just in the near term given that we've had the market tailwind you gave some stats in the past in terms of how sensitive that business is to an improvement there and then as well as rates.
Any difference there? Because it feels like we're getting the market at least for the time being but just any changes in those sensitivities? The focus on margin is still on mid-teens margin by mid next year.
And although we're getting the benefit of reduced integration expense as you pointed out we're also having some of that offset by increased software capitalization expense as we've talked about on prior calls.
So the way we're driving to the mid-teens margin in part comes from integration expense although it's not quite as big as that full 75 given software cap.
It's also additional cost discipline focus and expense discipline focus is the continued build out of our lending platform that I just mentioned.
And it's also the ongoing growth in managed money.
Those are really the key drivers of margin expansion.
And that's going to continue as we go through next year.
We do get a bit of a benefit in particular next year when we're all operating on one platform.
It makes some of that second category the expense discipline cost saving programs easier to implement but it's really the combination of the same items that we've been discussing over time.
And then as it relates to the market benefit we did get a bit of a lift here given the S&amp;P started the first quarter higher than it was at the beginning of the fourth quarter and going into the second quarter we similarly have a bit of a benefit from that.
But the mid-teens guidance was -- mid-teen PBT margin guidance assumed no market benefit.
And if we continue to have market benefit that helps.
Similarly if Fed funds rise that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the buy-in so we don't have all the details but when you think about -- obviously the valuation will play a part your other options will play a part.
And then just how -- what flexibility you have with the Fed but when we start thinking about timing of that and in other opportunities what -- is the likelihood you -- still that occurring during the near term? Well Michael it's James.
Let me address that.
We're -- we've said for a long time that we like this business it's strategically important to us.
And while it's been difficult market conditions for a couple of years we do think we know how to manage it well and we're in the last 10 weeks of a pretty massive in fact historically largest integration.
So we're on track and the first call option is available I believe at the end of May or the 1st of June.
And obviously at that time or some time before that we'd have a discussion with – with our friends at Citigroup on the first call option.
We have a pretty clear path over what is now only 2 years to buy the remaining pieces.
We feel no particular compulsion or anxiety to accelerate that.
We have great clarity around what we're trying to do with the business.
Obviously we're always prepared to listen but we're in a position where we have a clear path we have a clear plan.
We've had this plan now for over 3 years and we're frankly rapidly moving to the end of it.
So that's where we are right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one just on the ROE for the overall business.
Obviously you've seen a pretty good improvement versus the last call it 2 years but you’re still at 9% in a seasonally strong quarter.
So when you think about the legacy assets and the things that you've been doing even on the trading side like how far along are you in that process? Because clearly a better macro environment can still get that up but you also had the seasonality against you.
But just wondering how much of getting rid of some of the legacy issues or transitioning under the new regulatory environment is done versus the rest more of a macro environment improvement will drive stronger revenues? We'll be the first to agree that ROE we're still on a path of improving over time and it is benefiting from systematic execution in the businesses but we are in a path.
If you just kind of go through the 3 big buckets of categories that should continue to drive ROE on the Institutional Securities side we felt really good exiting 2011 having addressed the legacy issues that we have been speaking with you about for so long.
And exiting those having those drags gone is helpful.
We have been reducing our presence in businesses which under Basel III are more capital-consuming and moving to a more -- well model which is more capital efficient so you get some lift just from the mix of the business and that's continuing.
On the GWM side moving in the direction of the mid-teens PBT margin after 3-plus years as James said will help as we benefit from integration and a higher PBT margin on that business.
And then we're continuing our disciplined approach on comp and non-compensation.
So those are just -- those are 3 of the bigger levers that will help continue to drive ROE.
We're doing a lot more but we're comfortable on this path.
And I would just add Michael I think that there were areas of our business that clearly benefited from a I would call it a reasonable market environment not exactly a bullish market environment.
But there were areas that did not.
I mean in the first quarter of the new issued calendar in equities it was not exactly robust.
M&amp;A and advisory work frankly was very low across the industry.
Our Wealth Management business as Ruth said with rates that are basically 0 interest rates and no equity calendar clearly that business wasn't exactly operating at a seasonal or market high.
So there were pluses and minuses as you put it all together with the cost backdrop that we're working on with the integration stuff we've talked about the continued retooling we've been doing in securities businesses.
We're quite comfortable with the path we're on.
Research Division</strong> So look the -- I give you credit where credit is due.
The trading results were awesome and awesome on a relative basis as well.
And everything that you said about the investments made it all make sense.
I guess my question is what's different about this first quarter that produced such a payoff? In other words if you look at it relative to say the last 8 10 quarters' average your increase is literally 50% more than everybody else in both equities and FICC.
So I don't want to complain it's great numbers.
I'm just curious on what you think that made this first quarter to pay off.
Well I think Glenn firstly quarters as I've said often come around with remarkable frequency every 13 weeks.
We're already 3 or 4 weeks into the end of the next month so we're talking about ancient history here.
But I think it's if you look at equities in the last couple of years this is not a flash in the pan.
This has been a pretty considered and deliberate progress with our franchise I think had gained market share of over 350 basis points last year and continued to be strong this quarter.
Fixed Income obviously there was better balance in the business.
A lot of the pieces came together nicely across rates foreign exchange.
Our credit rebounded.
A little bit of it was environmental as we said and a little bit of it was the leadership and a little bit of it was the investments we've made in the platform.
So I don't regard it as kind of a bolt of lightning out of the sky here.
I think it's the aggregation of a series of things that have been steady investments.
Every quarter won't look exactly the same that's for sure.
I'm sure we'll see some ups and some downs over the next several quarters but it shows evidence that the investments we made are in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question Ruth I heard all your comments regarding funding cost and debt issuance or debt decreasing in the quarter.
I actually have the opposite question on debt issuance plans going forward.
And I think your average maturities in that 5-year range has come down over time where my intuition would tell me that you'd want to be extending duration especially -- some of the things that Moody's points out on the business needing to stand on its own 2 feet.
Can we -- can you help us think through what your debt issuance pay and so on how you think about today's funding cost where they should be over time? Yes.
The way -- I think it's a great question and the way I start on that is really looking at funding requirements as a function of our business mix and our balance sheet.
And as I spoke about on the last quarter's call there are really 3 strategic priorities that frame the way I think about funding.
First our strategy for business mix has moved towards flow from structured and we can fund that efficiently through the secured channel and we are.
Second exiting legacy positions has really decreased the need for unsecured funding.
A lot of these positions were less liquid and they were cash-funded and by exiting them not only do we -- we free up some of the requirements there.
And that was a part of the story this quarter and frankly over the last couple of quarters.
And then the growth of our deposit base consistent with what we're doing in MSSB is funding both our corporate and our retail loan book and enabling us to fund more with the deposit base it reduces our reliance on unsecured funding.
So overall the strategic moves towards a leaner more velocity-focused balance sheet have allowed us to extract funding from the balance sheet which means we're not and we haven't refinanced all the maturities.
So specifically and I made this point in the first quarter we paid down $16 billion in debt.
We issued $5 billion.
In other words net debt down $10 billion in the first quarter alone.
And we've reduced net debt by $16 billion over the past couple of quarters and we did this while improving revenue strength and capturing market share and maintaining high liquidity.
So this is where we really want to be which is delivering for clients and enhancing our funding.
And as I talked about a lot on the last quarter I felt like I was the beneficiary when I'm thinking about funding of all of the strategic things that have been done.
And so very much to your point our maturities our rolling 12-month maturities peaked in September of last year and they've been on a downward trajectory and that gives us some funding flexibility.
And as we think about how to benefit from that funding flexibility we're looking as we have consistently over the last several years at optimizing our unsecured issuance across channels vanilla debt structured notes and ongoing work with our partner MUFG in the Japanese market with the Uridashi issuance.
We're looking across currency and we're being mindful of what's the wham of the overall book.
But the way we think about it is given high liquidity and declining maturities I mentioned this liquidity maturity statistic what's notable is we're now at 38 months coverage.
In other words parent liquidity covers the next 38 months of maturities which is up from 23 months 2 years ago.
And it just goes to the prudent way we're running the balance sheet and the high degree of flexibility we have as a result of it.
Research Division</strong> Of all that's going on I would think your credit spreads would be tightening more.
Maybe last one on that note...
We would agree.
Research Division</strong> On that note with it again price aside I think there's something in it for both sides to do more of MSSB sooner.
So price aside it's highly likely not a big capital call.
Is there a thought to just issue a bunch of debt as spreads come in and take the whole thing in? Listen.
Obviously we're not going to talk about a particular transaction.
As we've said our focus is on number one getting the integration done.
We're 11 weeks away from that.
Number two we will proceed with the first call option and that's 5 weeks away or something like that.
And number three eventually owning 100% of this business which we can do on a very clear program over the next 24 months.
So I'm in the camp of we like certainty.
We have what we think is a well-structured deal that was laid out 3 years ago.
We're right at approaching crunch time which is pretty exciting.
But we -- it'd take a lot to encourage us to get off that path.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just wondering -- most of my questions have been asked but I was looking at the share count and it looked like about 50 million additional shares.
What drove that? Was it the annual issuance to employees? I think you have to follow up with IR and they'll give you that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
On the compensation ratio in the Institutional Securities group could you talk about whether that is a level that could hold for the year? And then secondly just to double check my understanding of the 8% to 9% sorry on Basel III look through ratio in Q1 is all of that 100 basis points difference the potential impact of the NPR on Basel 2.5? Certainly.
So starting with the compensation ratio we're accruing what we think is reasonable looking at those absolute dollars and ratios.
It's obviously early in the year and the same thing we talked about on prior calls remains which is we're very focused on balancing driving ROE on the one hand and compensating and retaining talent that's driving that ROE.
And this is obviously an industry-wide balance but we've got a team refocused on it.
And within Institutional Securities the compensation ratio reflects the severance that I commented on.
I think it was just over $100 million $107 million in ISG alone.
So that's part of the overall number but we're still maintaining that very much that lends which is we've got to get the balance right to drive ROE while paying the talent that's driving that ROE and it is early in the year.
On the Basel III question you're absolutely correct that the range really reflects the ongoing uncertainty regarding Basel 2.5 NPR.
And until there is greater certainty we think it's most prudent just to give you a range and we're within that range.
We'll tighten up as we also become more clear.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on a couple other questions that have been asked.
I guess just on the -- in the sort of the strength of the first quarter it feels like your strength your revenue generation actually builds over the course of the quarter with March being stronger whereas I think others have saw the opposite January being stronger.
I mean was there something that -- were one of these areas particularly strong in March? And then obviously it's only a couple of weeks into April but has that momentum carried on? Well actually I think we started January coming into the year I think with the benefits of LTRO kind of as the tailwind.
We started January and things were pretty attractive.
I think we were mindful of the fact that we entered the quarter with low balance sheet and therefore weren't benefiting from much of a big inventory that would be written up but sub a pretty good activity on the sales and trading side in January.
I think it got a little muted in the middle of the quarter and then did end the quarter to your point stronger.
And I think it's too early to call 3 weeks 2 weeks into the second quarter.
I'd be remiss to try and extrapolate from where we are here and so much of it continues to be what's going on in the macro environment.
You tell me that and I'll give you a bit of a cleaner forecast for the second quarter.
So too early at this point.
Research Division</strong> I can't figure that out either.
So just -- it reminds me another point I want to ask on the balance sheet.
So these to the average balance sheet your inventory levels were down.
Can you characterize how the ending balance sheet may have looked versus the average or versus end of 4Q? The average and ending for the first quarter were pretty consistent.
It's in the supplement.
They were within -- they were close and they've kind of stayed at those levels.
We're continuing to run a sub-$800 billion balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> I mean I'm referring more just to your risk capital within the trading business.
I think that's what you're referring to.
Oh I'm sorry.
Yes so that similarly really has not changed much continuing to run at the same kind of more modest levels.
And I think when we look at the Fixed Income results we -- it is a story about breadth across a number of product areas.
But in particular when you look at the fact that we ran at low VAR and the balance sheet where it was ROA was up nicely VAR efficiency was up as well.
It's continued to run at those kinds of levels and no change really there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back on the credit rating discussion.
So your comments around using the higher rate of bank entity is -- can you -- do you have sufficient capacity given the size of the bank deposit base that are today to accommodate any existing business that may have technical requirements under – if the rating were to be downgraded to move [indiscernible].
If you hear Larry Fink’s comments yesterday saying they will have to move some business away.
I mean can we make sure that Morgan Stanley is not on the ones on the list? Well that's why I went through the various steps and execution paths.
We got multiple execution paths and that's what gives us the comfort to say that outcomes are manageable.
So apart from that which essentially cleared you’re focusing really on and what about the rest of it and as I indicated we have a higher rated derivatives entity and that's a valuable next part of the execution path longer-term.
It goes to the bank but we've got a number of different execution paths which is why there are solutions here that make it very manageable.
Research Division</strong> So no one would actually have to leave right? You can accommodate any requirements? Look I think I would point to one other thing which I commented on which is first and foremost I don't want to prejudge the Moody's outcome but a lot of clients are focused on what are the other ratings that we have for the firm.
We're still A-rated by S&amp;P and Fitch and a lot of clients are doing their own credit assessment.
Some of the questions that are coming up are more structure-related than anything else.
And for that we've focused in I kind of gone through what are the execution options available.
And I think Roger just on ratings it's important to note that when Moody's first came out to render their opinion on all of the banks around the world it was before the stress test was -- the results of that were published which is obviously important information.
And it was before the first quarter results of the large institutions certainly in the U.S.
So they now have the benefit of 2 concrete pieces of information that they didn't have.
And I think it's important and constructive that they're delaying their readout on this until early June as they try to assimilate all of that positive feedback they've had from the industries.
Research Division</strong> What are the investment banking backlogs? And how do they compare to a quarter ago? The equity backlog remains strong and continues to build.
And I feel like I've been saying that quarter after quarter and the appropriate question is and what takes it to move out of backlog and into execution.
We did see a bit more of that in March.
There was some kind of a bit of a pickup in equity new issue product and that gives us I guess I would say guarded optimism that we'll see more of it here in the second quarter.
Of course the market backdrop always being one of the key determinants but that remains an attractive pipeline.
M&amp;A is similarly a healthy backlog and we're having a lot of conversations with clients.
I think the view continues to be that there is still CEO concern about the durability of the recovery not just in the U.S.
but around the globe.
And therefore we would be more guarded on the speed of movement of M&amp;A deals out of the pipeline.
We'd love to see that accelerate clearly but I think the view of our team has been for quite some time if you look at historical patterns it's more likely that it is a back half of the year rather than a front half including second quarter movement out of the pipeline and onto announced transactions.
Research Division</strong> Can you put any dollar amounts? I mean is it flat is it up is it down versus just last quarter? We look at it kind of on a probability-weighted basis and it looks healthy.
I think it's kind of generally around the same levels.
Research Division</strong> And is Facebook going to open up a lot more activity or is that a one-off? How do you think about that? We never talk about any deals in registration.
We don't want to [indiscernible] it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I just meant generally do you think the technology IPOs are going to be picking up later this year? Same answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then just switching gears on the brokerage business what were the net new assets for the quarter? On the brokerage business I'm glad you asked that because we have included in here fee-based assets.
The net new assets were a bit below that kind of consistent with the trend we saw last year.
We have shifted the disclosure as we talked about previously to fee-based assets.
And the reason for that is that's really strategically where we've been focused and that is the stronger relationship between funds movement and our P&amp;L is on the fee-based side.
And so going forward given that's the way the senior team is managing the business we're going to be providing you with fee-based assets.
All right.
Thank you so much for joining us today and we look forward to speaking to you in July.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!