[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You both mentioned the impact of the CVA this quarter.
Can you tell us how meaningful that was? And were there any hedges against that as I think is your historical practice? So there were hedges against it as is our historical practice and as we disclosed in our filings.
And the drag -- just to try and help you size it the drag from CVA this quarter was bigger than the period-specific items we called out last quarter in our Fixed Income business.
In addition we had a drag in equities although it was smaller than in Fixed Income.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then James could you just update us on your long-term strategy vision for the Commodities business and how you see both the physical and the nonphysical segments of the business fitting within the regulatory framework as we go forward? Well Commodities has been a great business here at Morgan Stanley for a long time.
It continues to be an attractive business.
Obviously with the Dodd-Frank legislation there are potential limits to some of the activities that we can pursue in that business.
So it's incumbent upon us to explore all forms of different structures appropriate structures that can take us forward where we can get the benefits of the business but also meet the regulatory constraints that we operate under.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on capital management James you've highlighted in the past to think about this capital management and capital trends as sequential process.
So sequentially you've retired legacy issues you've bought the first 15% of the buy-in crystallized the price for the rest and this Basel III Tier 1 common continues to improve.
So where we are now how do you think about the potential ability to buy back your stock restore the dividend and/or maybe do the rest of the buy-in? Well it's a good question Howard.
Obviously we have CCAR process that we and the other financial institutions go through with our regulators both Federal Reserve and the other regulators.
And in that process one is in a position to pursue a range of capital actions.
The process is now conducted twice yearly.
Last couple of years it's been once yearly.
So there are opportunities going forward to put in place whatever plans we have in place.
We've made it pretty clear that our major strategic objective is to complete the acquisition of MSSB of which we have remaining 35%.
And that would have a very modest capital implication for us given the agreed-upon price and the goodwill we already hold against the position.
So I don't want to get ahead of ourselves and don't want to get ahead of our regulators.
We'll address what and when other actions as we get to the CCAR process in January of next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That makes sense.
And just finally for me you noted the heightened litigation costs this quarter.
What specifically did those relate to Ruth? And how far would you say we are through crisis and postcrisis litigation for the firm? Well it covered -- this quarter covered a number of items including the recent decision in one matter but also expenses associated with other ongoing matters.
And I think as you put it litigation has been an ongoing cost for the industry.
And I think it will continue to be.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to I think probably a couple of things Howard asked.
Besides sort of the CCAR process are there other things with respect to buying in the rest of the JV that factor into your decision-making? And what would cause you to accelerate that or not separate from the capital allocation? Well I'll have a go then Ruth can jump in.
We agreed on a fixed price on the JV.
And given that fixed price the capital -- and you can do the math on it -- the capital implications of buying the rest of it are pretty modest.
There are many advantages to pursuing that obviously but again we've got to go through the CCAR process and make sure it's the right time to do it.
But there are advantages to pursue it and we've made that very clear.
This is a strategic imperative.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just maybe tied to that broadly you've got to a 13% pretax margin excluding the charges.
Your target next year is mid-teens.
Can you just remind us what other milestones we'd be looking for? I mean you're obviously close to that number now.
Does this continue to as you model it out rise over the course of next year so you're at a higher level above mid-teens by the end of next year? So we're still guiding to mid-teens margin mid-next year but 2 components I think to your question.
First is we're looking forward to the fourth quarter and beyond a couple of items.
One integration expense is running lower post the second quarter.
As we've talked about it ran kind of the $80 million to $100 million per quarter area in the first half and then we had budgeted for it to come down in the third and fourth quarters which it did running at lower levels and then dropped off again next year.
So the third quarter margin did benefit from that drop in integration expense which will also benefit the fourth quarter and then it goes down in 2013.
The second thing is that we'll have a full quarter of the expense benefit associated with the charge that we took in the third quarter.
We had 2 of 3 months' benefit in the third quarter.
So there was some impact on the 13% margin this quarter.
We get the full 3 months' benefit next quarter.
Obviously we are always careful to say that PBT margin expansion is not a straight line.
For example in the fourth quarter we do tend to have seasonally higher expenses.
But it's too soon to tell.
And then I think as we look forward and really building on James' comment about the upside whenever it comes with the additional 35% when we buy that in first and foremost we generate earnings on this capital that we're already holding against Citi's stakes.
So that meaningfully improves ROE in the business.
But in addition to that we get the benefit from adding about another $55 billion in deposits over time.
So not only do we benefit from efficient stable funding but we also increase net interest income which is higher-margin.
And then beyond NCI there's an earnings benefit from trading volumes that are now directed to Citi based on an order flow agreement.
That's eliminated when we own 100%.
So some contractual benefits that take it higher and then there are certain other costs from managing a joint venture that drop away.
So mid-teens margin mid-next year is the guidance but I just wanted to give you the path forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the Basel III Tier 1 ratio 9%.
The last quarter I think you said you were just under 8.5%.
There was some benefit from the MSSB transaction.
But also is the 8.5% still a comparable number? Because I know the NPR had just come out in June.
And so I don't know if there were any revisions to the historical look-back.
Yes.
That's a comparable number.
The increase really starts with earnings and as you know well DVA is not relevant for the capital calculation.
So starting with earnings there was a modest benefit from the new VAR model.
But I think very important we continue to execute on our RWA plan the risk-weighted asset plan.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on your FICC risk-weighted asset reduction? How much have you done? And how much more do you have to go? Mike given we just laid it out at a conference recently what I'll say is we're very much on track for the targets that we laid out at the conference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The increase in your Basel III Tier 1 ratio was that helped out this quarter by the risk-weighted asset reduction? Or is that to come? And also did the VAR change help out your capital ratio? Yes.
The 3 components that helped the capital ratio was obviously starting with earnings and then I just mentioned that there was a modest benefit from the new VAR model.
And yes we did continue to execute on the RWA plan that was part of the benefit.
Research Division</strong> And why did you make the change in the VAR model? Was it simply to get a shorter time series? And if so what time frame did you have before versus now? Yes.
The primary driver was to have a VAR model that's more sensitive to changes in market volatility.
So it is more weighted to 1 year data.
As we've talked about in the past our prior VAR model was really -- it was based on 4-year data.
And we've been running this model and the prior model in parallel since 2011 which gives us a high level of comfort from the model.
It's been approved by regulators.
It is consistent with Basel requirements.
And in our disclosure what you've probably seen is we've provided the VAR measures under both models for this quarter the prior quarter the prior year.
And we will be doing the same for the fourth quarter.
I thought it would be helpful for you to be able to see the trends under both models which are the same VAR was down this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you can appreciate the idea of changing a VAR model gets people's attention these days.
Is there anything else you've looked out at given what's taken place recently elsewhere in putting in place a new VAR model? I mean you've put it in place firm-wide you've ran it in parallel for what 1.5 years.
Anything else you can say to assure people? Sure.
So first and foremost it's part of the overall governance around risk management where you have one centralized risk organization.
It reports to the board risk committee.
The risk organization built the model.
It's been thoroughly vetted internally and as I said approved by regulators.
We've been running both models in parallel for an extended period of time.
And the other point is that VAR is just one of multiple measures of risk we use to assess overall risk in the organization.
So we've talked in the past about our proprietary stress VAR model.
That captures a longer time series and market liquidity and tail risk.
And we do constant scenario modeling with stresses for volatility and price changes.
So it's part of an overall to your point very good question overall comprehensive risk management centralized risk management organization with multiple tools.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
In Wealth Management now that you're on one platform I imagine you had many people working on that integration.
You said you're at your headcount reduction already.
So how many people were working on that integration? And I guess they'll be redeployed for more external activities or elsewhere.
What kind of additional synergies can you get now that the integration is finally done? So as I indicated the expenses were higher in the first half but didn't drop off completely in the third and fourth quarter because we've continued to provide support.
We had built that into our upfront plan.
So you're right.
I don't have the numbers with me but headcount does benefit modestly as we completed the platform and will continue to benefit.
Research Division</strong> A quickie on loan.
Loan commitments have been coming down.
They're actually down like in half.
Is that a function of the environment or a little more a function of the Basel III Dodd-Frank world that we're going to live in? So loans -- what I'd like to point you to is obviously the difference between what's in our fair value block versus HFI.
As we've talked about several quarters ago we were increasingly moving to HFI.
That is up again this quarter.
And overall our loan book is actually up this quarter.
So I think the change is in what's fair value versus HFI HFI is now over half of our total loan book.
Research Division</strong> A totally fair point.
I guess M&amp;A performance is pretty good.
But in general industry-wide you scratch your head you look back and you say "Well conditions actually should be pretty good for a heated M&amp;A environment " yet I think there's a lot of conversations good pipelines and not a lot of trigger-pulling.
I'm just not sure if you can think through the things that would maybe break up that log jam and what your expectations are next 4 or 5 quarters.
You're absolutely right.
Our view is that the conditions that we're seeing today with lower volatility in the markets and low rates so an attractive financing environment if you look historically that should set up for a -- or encourage a pretty robust M&amp;A environment pretty -- higher levels of activity.
And very much to your point industry-wide volumes continue to remain at very low levels.
What we're hearing anecdotally is that much of that continues to be the uncertainty about the environment.
Some concern not just in Europe but increasingly here in the U.S.
and that that is basically putting activity kind of on the sidelines.
Conversation's ongoing and the pipeline's healthy but very much to your point need to have more clarity about the environment and some of the changes that are forthcoming in particular here in the U.S.
for activity to move forward in a meaningful way is our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And last one just more of a big picture one I think everything you pointed out at the beginning of the call is spot-on.
I think Fixed Income snapped back strong.
M&amp;A debt underwriting Equity is all good Wealth Management getting better we're going to own more.
Even if you do the math of you owning more and hitting your margin target I'm still coming up in a single-digit ROE range.
And I just don't know if it's just waiting on a better environment.
I'm just curious if you in your minds have a path towards say a double-digit ROE and what it takes to get there.
Sure.
We do have meaningful ROE upside and are unequivocally focused on driving returns in each of our businesses.
There was noise in the numbers this quarter.
I'll let you model those in.
But taking you to the sustainably higher ROE and focusing on those drivers we've talked about revenue profitability capital efficiency for the various businesses -- let me go into them in some detail.
So in Wealth Management in terms of the revenue upside we're continuing to increase our managed accounts business.
It's up above $550 billion this quarter it's up 20% year-over-year.
And that's accretive to returns.
And we are increasing our lending business.
We have $73 billion of deposits as of October 15 once the deposits came in from Citi associated with the 14% stake.
Those come in under the drag basis -- lag basis rather.
So $73 billion of deposits we're increasingly moving that to higher-margin products which will increase NIM even without any rate increase.
And then on the expense side you've seen it in the third quarter.
The integration is complete so expenses have come down and have more room to go as I just noted.
And the cost savings programs add to that even more.
And then on the capital side as you said when we own -- as we increasingly own more of the joint venture we generate earnings on what I have repeatedly called deadweight capital.
We're holding this capital against Citi's stake and not earning -- generating earnings on it.
Notably as we buy-in the remainder of the Wealth Management joint venture there is contractually significant revenue and profitability upsides that I commented on things like the order flow agreement a limit more deposits -- so more upside beyond that contractually.
And then on the Institutional Securities side starting with revenues we have sizable operating leverage in our institutional businesses and we're executing on our plan.
So we have a stellar platform in banking we have a strong M&amp;A pipeline.
The same is true for equity new issuance and both really played to our strengths.
We have a leading franchise in institutional equities and we continue to increase share even with low volumes low market-wide volumes.
And on Fixed Income we're on track to running an optimized returns business with a strong client franchise putting risk behind clients with smart capital efficiency.
And we're pleased with the momentum in the business.
On expenses we now have very strong expense controls comp and noncomp.
And on capital we're benefiting from more efficient use of capital across the businesses.
On top of that there would be upside from any return of capital and from an improving market over time.
But we're building to a healthy increase in ROE with the revenue profitability and capital levers I've just gone through.
Hey Glenn it's James.
You said at the beginning what an overall big picture on the ROE and as Ruth just laid out all the components.
But just step back for a minute.
The first quarter the ROE was 9%.
Second quarter obviously we fell into a hole with the rating agency action and there is -- clearly we wanted to demonstrate that we've bounced back from that which I think we have clear demonstration.
You put all the pieces together and it's not a terribly heroic assumption to get back to your cost of capital.
And that's clearly what our plan and focus is on.
We will be very very very focused on noncomp expenses.
We are very attentive to our overall capital plan over the next couple of years.
We're determined to make this GWM acquisition work.
And as Ruth said we have huge operating leverage across Institutional Securities.
So again I'm not sure what your math is looking like but I don't think it takes a lot of heroic assumptions to get you to a reasonable ROE number.
And then obviously from then on as the global macro environment improves which I believe it is on the starting basis of doing we take it up from that point.
Research Division</strong> First question is relating to risk-weighted assets again.
You mentioned at a recent conference second quarter group risk-weighted assets were about $500 billion.
Could you give us an update where we stand as of the third quarter with a 9% Tier 1 Basel III? Given we just went through it at a recent conference we're continuing to execute on the RWA plan.
But I don't have it with me because we're not updating it at this point.
Research Division</strong> When will you give actually more details on your Basel III? Because it's been industry standard to start give a little bit more details.
When should we expect you actually to either have it in the press release or in any other form that you give more details on capital as well as Basel III details? Well actually I think that with the delineation we gave and in particular in Fixed Income we've given quite a bit of granularity because we wanted to make it clear how we're thinking about this strategically.
And we've laid out some pretty key milestones.
I think it might be helpful if I roll forward based on that plan where that gets you in '13.
And you've probably already done this.
But based on our current interpretation of the rules consensus earnings and the RWA reduction plan that we did lay out at the conference the math will get you to north of 10% by 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Moving on to funding cost.
Your funding cost is about 50 to 100 basis points higher than your peers.
And I'm looking at your balance sheet and you have about $170 billion of long-term debt.
But I'm sure there's other long-term debt that I'm missing because of the way it's categorized.
How much long-term debt do you actually have or what you categorize as long-term debt in your business? And how does a 50 to 100 basis points higher CDS spread impact your funding cost really going forward? How should we think about how you fund your business and the impact on the ROE? So you've identified the long-term debt.
You've got the right number there.
In terms of funding as I've said on many quarterly calls the strategic moves that we've been making are benefiting our funding costs and our requirements.
So for example the growth of the deposit base which is fairly consistent with our ongoing growth of the Wealth Management business funds both our corporate and retail loan books and additional products in the bank.
And as we increase funding with deposits we reduce reliance on our unsecured funding.
With respect to the business mix as we move more toward flow which we've talked about quarter-after-quarter from structured products we're funding more efficiently through the secured channel.
And as a result of this and all that we've been doing with the balance sheet this quarter alone our unsecured debt is down by $3 billion.
In 2012 year-to-date it's down by about $20 billion.
So in the aggregate as a result of the strategic move which is why I keep anchoring it back to that the strategy is actually yielding multiple benefits.
We've reduced our funding requirements we've increased the durability of our funding because we have more efficiency given the multiple funding sources.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually quite useful.
And in terms of the comp ratio I get to an IB-clean comp of 45% in the quarter.
You mentioned noncomp as an improvement area.
Most banks that I talk to are looking at more like high 30s as a comp target over the medium-term.
How do you see your long-term comp ratio outlook assuming no material changes in revenues? Understood.
So in recent quarters with higher revenues we've delivered a lower compensation ratio which evidences our philosophy and continues to drive returns.
And as we've said many times we're focused on appropriately rewarding those who drive returns while improving ROE and earnings.
So it's not just about compensation dollars.
We're also looking at headcount management at location sourcing at the overall expense management program and looking at both comp and noncomp.
Research Division</strong> But with this revenue environment is it fair to say we should still see low 40s as a number on comp? Is it reasonable? Well I was going to make 2 points.
The other important point to note is obviously ratios are not apples-to-apples across the Street.
And as I said we're looking at ensuring that we get the balance right so that we can reward those who drive returns while improving ROE.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question on your VAR model.
Do you still use a Monte Carlo model or historic now? Historic.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up question I guess to Glenn's question about the businesses and getting to ROE Ruth.
And maybe you incorporated your comments on this but you didn't really focus on the Asset Management businesses.
You're currently running at about a 17% ROE this quarter about half of that on a year-to-date basis.
Is there any meaningful benefit to ROE given the relatively modest contribution now that you see? You mentioned ISG and you mentioned Wealth Management.
But is there anything that we might expect in terms of ROE benefit from Asset Management in the next year or 2? Well you've identified given it's already a high ROE business yes there tends to be less of a question there.
What we've consistently been doing is bringing back C capital [ph] and investing in the core business.
And so again that's accretive to returns in what's already an attractive return business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that there's been some greater sense of engagement from your clients post the Moody's downgrade and that accelerated in the third quarter.
My presumption is that that is a comment basically focused on your institutional clients.
Can you give us a little more color as to the sense of the retail investor engagement over the course of the third quarter? And any color you might want to provide relative to what's happened since the end of the quarter.
If I'm hearing the question correctly there were actually almost -- maybe 2 points in there.
Post-Moody's we had -- we saw clients really reengaging as you said in the sales and trading side in particular on the Fixed Income side which is the area that dealt with it the most.
There wasn't really a Moody's impact on the retail side.
And so on the retail side the focus has been much more about what's going on in the macro environment.
And as I commented one of the impacts and the drags in the business has been with the macro as weak as it had been or as volatile as it had been we had lower levels industry-wide of equity new issue products.
So that affected the opportunity overall for retail products to go through the system.
But I think what you see in retail which is attractive is the consistency of revenues quarter-after-quarter.
I would just add from observing that part of the business for over a decade that there are periods where retail investors are completely disinterested in the market.
There are periods when they're chasing everything that's moving.
And then there are periods when they're basically sitting on the sidelines.
If a good product comes along they engage.
If there's a better tone in the market they engage.
And we are in that period.
We're definitely not in a fearful period.
We're in a period where the money is there the flows are still positive a lot of money sitting in cash.
And when an interesting product is coming along they're engaging.
And when there is a firmer tone whether it's from here or Europe or anywhere else internationally we see an uptick in activity.
So as Ruth said it's remained enormously stable during a pretty depressed period.
And in my view it wouldn't take a whole lot for that revenue outlook to turn in a positive way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Ruth you mentioned the hedge funds looked like they're taking a bit more leverage this quarter.
Could you provide a little additional color as to if there are specific markets or products where they are willing to put on more leverage? I think it's a pretty broad-based statement that we're saying.
I can't pinpoint it to any particular market as broader.
Research Division</strong> First a quick one on CVA.
Are we done there? Or is there more of that coming in subsequent quarters? So you specifically asked about CVA not DVA.
Obviously both are affected by movements in credit spreads and so we don't forecast movements in credit spreads.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I think it was last quarter where you said that there was a big change because of the downgrade.
And so I was more referring to the outsized move as it related to that with the increased collateral.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
So there weren't more collateral calls this quarter so you're not -- there was -- we basically had the initial flurry of collateral calls post the ratings action in June.
And it pretty much subsided even before we got to the second quarter earnings call.
It was initial flurry and that was it.
And so you do not see an impact from collateral calls this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good deal.
And then sticking with the capital markets nice to see a pretty solid bounce-back there in FICC and great to hear about clients reengaging.
Is that still -- is there still a tailwind coming there and still continuing to benefit you? Or do you feel as though everybody now is back and FICC is up to full speed? In other words do we have more coming more benefit? Well we always want to be doing more with our clients so I wouldn't put an endpoint on it.
I think that we were helped to have the ratings action behind us and clients reengage.
And you can see that in the numbers.
The move by the ECB in the summer as I noted I do think helped bring clients back into the market more broadly that had been a big headwind as well.
But in our view we've got a very focused approach to the businesses and are looking to continue to build share.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry if I wasn't more specific.
I just meant the reengagement post-Moody's if you felt as though at this point folks are now fully back and reengaged.
It's hard to disaggregate what's going on in the macro from any particular is there any particular lag.
Our sense is that clients have reengaged and we're continuing to work to build market share with them.
And it feels that it's pretty much been addressed but I was actually very directly saying that we're continuing to drive share and looking at that.
So it's hard to be more specific.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's fair.
Aside from benefiting from the market conditions more favorable market conditions as you highlighted in the Commodities business Goldman hit on weakness and specifically highlighted weakness there.
Could you give some more color on how that business went this quarter for you guys? Yes it was -- commodities was up meaningfully versus last quarter.
But as we noted it was much lower last quarter.
And that was due to a more favorable market environment.
It is still down year-over-year.
So I think some of the backdrop continued to be a bit challenging.
And as we've discussed before for us the business is a mix of flow and structured solutions for clients and it can be quite lumpy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
There was a good deal of noise made in the press on trends within FAs in Wealth Management.
You never know how much of that's noise versus something real.
So have you guys seen any uptick in defections post-integration? Have you seen any tangible evidence of dissatisfaction? I know the total FA headcount went up but sometimes there's junior brokers that get at it and that can skew.
So if you could give maybe some color on that that'd be helpful.
Well FA attrition continues to run at low levels.
In fact for the top 2 quintiles which is what we typically call out the attrition was lower in the third quarter than it has been for the last several quarters.
And if you look at metrics like annual revenue per financial advisor or assets per financial advisor all of the trends are going in the right direction.
So there's always some movement in and out.
Actually this quarter FAs are down a bit as it was between the first and second quarter.
But attrition's lower than it has been.
Or to put it differently retention is running at higher levels.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question around Basel III again.
Given the uncertainty around the outcome of the final NPRs as well as given some of the questions around the model approval process is it possible to give a range of outcome for what your Basel III numbers ultimately could be? Well the way we approach the Basel III guidance is it's based on as I said our current interpretation of the rules.
What it does not include is the benefit of model approval which is obviously a key part of the transition.
And we view model approvals as incremental upside.
And so what we'll do is layer that in as we get model approvals.
I mean there are certain models that are kind of more foundational like IMM.
But if you look at CRM model approval which I think a number of people -- a number are coming back to we don't include the benefit of CRM model approval.
So for example in the second quarter I mentioned that we estimated that our Tier 1 common ratio would be up about 40 basis points based on the book at that point in time.
And the reason we don't bake that into our guidance our spot guidance is as you know even when you receive CRM model approval you have to wait a year to incorporate the benefit in the calculation so that by any -- under any set of facts would be an event at least a year out.
And given that the book changes and we're actively reducing it the benefit changes as well.
So although we're working to get model approval we thought it was most prudent not to include the benefit of things like that in the guidance we give you and as we put it kind of greater than 9% and that gives us the room to take it up as we get model approval.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to be clear you haven't included CRM.
How about things like stressed VAR and the incremental risk charge? Are those included in your number as well or not? So CRM is not included but things that -- I'll call them the kind of foundational models that move you from Basel I and II and through the various regimes like IMM or IRB are included.
It's just the specific models that are available and that we're clearly working on to take risk-weighted assets down as with the CRM model.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you think is a reasonable time period in terms of getting full model approval from the Fed i.e.
is this something that's months out? Or do you think it could take longer than that? Well the reason we're not including it in our guidance is because we can't answer that question.
So we're working on it and I think it will take -- they seem to -- there's obviously a lot going on with the various moves from I to II to 2.5 and III.
So I can't estimate the date but we will provide updates as the models get approved.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I wanted to ask.
Can you confirm buying out the remainder of Smith Barney doesn't have a significant capital impact? I think you've said that on a couple of occasions.
Given that when we think about capital returns next year should we think about buying out the remainder of Smith Barney versus buying back stock as an either/or decision? Or do you think there's potentially room for you to do both? Well as I think James said it's premature to judge the CCAR process.
We haven't even seen the rules yet.
But as you've seen from actions today and James' comments the first priority is the Wealth Management joint venture the additional 35% given -- or portions that I've given the strategic value of the business.
So at this point it's premature to judge CCAR.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!