[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With respect to expenses the cost reduction targets in a flattish revenue environment is a really strong statement and a helpful benchmark for us.
I'm curious James how do you broadly think about the incremental margins or returns in a potentially better revenue environment? For example if revenues were up 10% with a similar business mix how much do you think would drop to the bottom line? Boy that's not one I'm going to wing.
Look maybe put pencil to paper.
We've been operating so much under the basis that there won't be increased revenues.
Obviously the world is going to evolve so at some point that's not true.
But our approach is being what can we control? How do we drive up margins in a flat revenue environment? And obviously through the expense line is how we're doing that.
By definition if we hold the line on our fixed costs which I think we've been very disciplined about on a go-forward basis one would assume the incremental dollar revenue would throw off a higher incremental margin than the previous dollar revenue.
But I got to go on -- we'd have to go and look at it business by business.
Research Division</strong> And we saw some really nice expense control within Global Wealth Management.
Specific to compensation you've noted in the past the limited flexibility you might have due to the grid-like comp structure.
So I'm curious what's driving that comp accrual lower in 2012? And how sustainable should we think of that? The main driver of the reduction in the comp ratio is the fact that we are done with integration.
As we've talked about on so many calls over the years the integration expense was running ballpark $80 million to $100 million a quarter until we completed the integration at the end of the second quarter then dropped down in the third and fourth quarter taper down.
That's one major benefit.
The second is that as a result of being on one platform we're able to consolidate a number of back offices and management layers the items that we outlined really on the third quarter call.
And so that's sustainable as well.
I think the fourth quarter compensation benefited a bit by what is typical year-end true up true down.
Sometimes it benefits the comp ratio other times it doesn't.
I think it's fair to say near term the ratio is likely to be in the 60% range.
But very much to your point there really -- there are a couple of drivers that will reduce that comp ratio more.
One is as we're continuing to build out the lending product the lending product is a non-compensable revenue.
It does provide a lift to the margin and drives -- that alone drives the margin into the 50s.
And then again a better operating environment.
In particular any kind of rate increase has a meaningful benefit to the margin in the business and that helps as well.
So we're good at where we are here holds you kind of in the first quarter near term to that 15% margin for the reasons I described with upside.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally for me can you discuss your wholesale funding plans over the next 2 years? I think you have maybe $45 billion-ish maturing through 2014.
How much would you like rolled off and how do you think that funding schedule potentially change as you buy in the rest of the JV this year? Sure.
There are a couple of variables to that.
We're obviously sitting here as I noted with liquidity at higher levels about $189 billion.
So there's some flex in there.
We have reduced outstanding indebtedness outstanding debt this year unsecured debt by about $19 billion very much to your point about the changing composition of the balance sheet.
And then as we buy in the balance of the wealth management business the deposits as I think you know come on we'll get about $15 billion when we complete the 35% but the balance of it comes on ratably over a 2-year period of time.
The total size of those deposits is ballpark $140 billion part of which will be used to support growth in the institutional business.
So the 3 components of it will be wealth management lending institutional lending and other bank-appropriate businesses moving into the bank.
As we do that we get dollar-for-dollar substitution reducing unsecured debt requirements and replacing them with deposit funding.
So all of those provides a bit of flexibility with respect to the magnitude of unsecured debt or wholesale funding that will be required on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate the further detail on the RWA wind-down.
I guess a 2-part question is I'm assuming that it's all passive but if you look at it what it does imply and you guys are by no means alone here there's $80 billion of RWA that are clogging up the system that have no real revenue impact.
So the 2-parter is one can anything in the market conditions change that to make there be a positive or a negative revenue impact? Or are we kind of locked and loaded and just waiting for wind-down? And part 2 is what does that RWA wind-down plan imply at all? Does it have revenue implications for fixed income as that plays out? So Glenn when we put out the initial forecast for risk-weighted assets and RWA reduction we were looking at -- there are obviously 3 levels -- levers.
There's passive mitigation active mitigation and model approval.
And the guidance last summer was primarily based on passive mitigation just scheduled roll-offs to maturity sub-positions [ph].
I've had some active but it was primarily passive.
What we've done through the back half of 2012 was accomplished through active mitigation.
In other words we pulled forward some of the passive mitigation that was embedded in that earlier forecast but it was through active mitigation that we ended the year at $280 billion of risk-weighted assets and were able to pull forward our forecast by a year.
And the way we've been accomplishing the active mitigation is really with minimal P&amp;L impact and that's the way we're continuing to look at it.
We're really reducing capital behind positions that are -- in areas that are not revenue-accretive longer term.
Research Division</strong> So just making sure I got it right any way you slice it as the RWA runoff good or bad market conditions it's going to have no revenue impact.
I said it's minimal revenue impact.
That's the way we've been looking at it.
And I think you had one other part of your question I didn't quite address.
The reason we've been able to accomplish this pull-forward is this is as you know a real priority for us.
We have strict governance around it.
Our senior leadership team is very committed to it and that's enabled us to pull forward through active mitigation more reduction in 2012 and set us up for this decline as we're looking at in '13 and beyond at minimal P&amp;L impact.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Ruth you've mentioned the 43% true comp ratio at ISG.
I'm assuming that was the year not the quarter correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's come down and I think the shareholders be cool with that.
We've seen some stuff in the press about changes on the deferral.
Not something normally I'd ask you to comment on but I'm just curious on the impact on future periods.
So the change in deferred I've seen this happen in the past at some other companies.
How much of a contingent liability does that create on the go-forward? Or is it not material to the overall story? Well a couple of things in terms of the compensation structure.
So we did change the comp structure again this year.
We raised the total compensation level at which deferrals start so over 82% of people don't have deferrals and it's really -- think of it as those who are in the earlier parts of their careers.
So it's really for the more senior people that we have deferrals.
The vesting schedule is still over 3 years and it's the combination of cash and equity which we think further enhances alignments of interest.
But as we talked about on calls last year we said the absolute amount of deferrals would be going down.
It is continuing to go down.
The actual amount of deferrals in 2013 is lower than 2012 and the aggregate amount continues to decline.
And I think as important as James noted in his comments when you combine that with the actions we've taken reducing headcount base and benefits are also meaningfully lower.
We're paying 6 000 fewer people in 2013.
And then you add that to things like location sourcing.
So kind of that fixed element of it if that's where you framed it is declining.
Research Division</strong> Now that's super helpful.
And then last one for me commodities specifically and I appreciate the environment has been a soft one and I've seen it everywhere.
Is the business actually changed such that maybe it doesn't fit inside a broker-dealer anymore? In other words would private equity be a better owner? It seems -- curious if you would allocate I'm sure you won't but I'll try the risk-weighted assets associated with it? It feels like wow 3 out of 4 quarters this year were pretty soft.
In other words in your mind is it cyclical versus something changed? Yes there were some quite specific issues in the environment that affected commodities this quarter in particular.
I mean as you know well our business is both physical and trading and it's also primarily oil and power.
And when you combine storm-related dislocation continued backwardation with lower prices affecting our storage business and then the lower volatility we had a series of things that resulted in basically de minimis revenues in commodities this quarter very unusual one over time.
So we do think there's quite a cyclical element to it storm-related element to it however you want to frame it.
Yes I'd just add firstly to put the quarter in context and I know the second quarter was also challenging you have to go back to 1995 I think to find quarters like that.
So it was fairly aberrant.
These businesses don't turn that quickly on a dime good or bad.
We have a tremendous Commodities business tremendous team.
They had an aberrant environment difficult environment difficult quarter and we moved on past that.
On the broader strategic things I mean if we could find a structure that was more advantageous for everybody we'd do that and obviously as we've said publicly we're open to that.
But this is not because we don't think it's a great business.
We're just constantly looking at the combination of capital liquidity funding and the mix of those 3 things and trying to figure out the best way to move forward.
Research Division</strong> I think this goes in the category of good progress but could it be better.
So starting with Slide 12 you identify targets for return on tangible equity at 11% going to 12% at some point but you don't put a time frame around that.
Can you give us any better sense of timing when you expect to achieve that? What we tried to do Mike was lay out in the deck the key components that are embedded in that 9% so the expense initiatives the capital efficiency the drivers in wealth management and Institutional Securities.
So just focusing on the expense -- well let's start from the top.
Wealth initiative and the buy-in there as James said that's one item that we put into CCAR.
That's with a focus to accomplish as soon as possible subject to regulatory approval.
And the benefit to be clear of the wealth management buy-in is not just the incremental 35% earnings but the contractual upside once we own 100% results in earnings that are about the same as that which we get from retaining the NCI.
And then on top of that when you're talking about ROE clearly as I've been talking about for many quarters we've been holding capital against the stake.
So that's deadweight capital.
We'll finally get not just the NCI but that contractual earnings against it.
That's helpful and that's submitted within our CCAR now.
The expense initiatives as we outlined on the chart are over the next 2 years.
And so you can see the $1.6 billion reduction in the 2-year period of time.
I think the RWA reductions we're continuing to focus on that near term and the growth initiatives as well.
So we're not putting a specific timeline on it but try to guide you there with the way we laid out the other key drivers of the upside.
Research Division</strong> And for the expense reduction now that is a big number $1.6 billion but you've made such good progress here recently that if you annualize fourth quarter results I guess that's just $400 million incremental per year.
Am I doing the math correctly or how should I think about that? Well the reason we pulled it all together in $1.6 billion as we've been talking to you over the last year or 2 about a number of different initiatives the Office of Re-engineering the wealth management efforts the headcount reduction so the goal was to pull everything together with a holistic view of it.
As it relates to reengineering which is both comp and non-comp we targeted a $1.4 billion run rate reduction by 2014 and a $500 million run rate reduction by the end of 2012.
Our expenses in aggregate are down $500 million between 2011 and 2012 a little different mix there but down by that $500 million.
So now when you layer on top of it the integration in wealth management the benefit from the consolidation steps the headcount reduction line by line buildup takes you to that $1.6 billion over the 2-year period of time.
So I wouldn't say annualize the 2011 over 2012 reduction.
This is really by initiative takes you to the $1.6 billion over that period of time based on our best estimates what we know now and as we said assuming a flat revenue environment.
Research Division</strong> And the wealth management margin great you're 17% but I guess your target is still mid-teens.
So why not increase the targets? We're keeping it for now at the mid-teens target and we're pleased with the 17% and all that we had to do with the franchise completing the integration that set us up to achieve the 17% margin.
But as I said previously we wouldn't guide you to hold that 17% in the first quarter for a couple of reasons.
One there are fewer trading days and it is seasonally slightly higher comp ratio.
So holding the comp ratio at least near term in that 60% range implying sort of a 15-ish percent margin near term we think is prudent appropriate.
But again for the reasons we've talked about namely the expense savings through consolidation coupled with the upside we see with our growth in lending that should take you to higher levels.
And if you have any lift at all from the environment in particular on the rate side it does as well.
But we're going to hold for now to the mid-teens and wait to see those play out over time.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly backlogs you said equity underwriting is higher.
Is that link quarter year-over-year or both? And can you also give those -- that information for total investment banking? So the equity pipeline is up going into the year so quarter-over-quarter and as I said it's driven by greater activity in Europe and Asia in particular.
Those were pretty muted throughout 2012.
So with the healthier backdrop in particular in Europe we're looking for more activity.
And then -- I'm sorry the second part of your question was...
Research Division</strong> Just backlogs any other color you can give.
So that's equity.
What about fixed income? Fixed income tends to have a slightly shorter pipeline.
It has been a very constructive environment for refinancing.
I think there have been some debate as to was activity pulled into the fourth quarter from the first quarter.
Our view very much is it was not.
This was just good refinancing effort and corporate clients being opportunistic because of low rates and so there is more to come.
We think that although you never want to forecast an extension off of a record quarter the offset to any kind of declines there.
In fact the M&amp;A market remains as constructive as it appears we could see some more event lending activity in particular non investment-grade activity.
So I don't want to suggest that you should extrapolate off of the fourth quarter given it was a record but we feel good about the ongoing interest by clients in financing activity.
Research Division</strong> Quick question here.
The roughly $50 billion of RWA reduction that we're going from current to year-end '14 have you guys provided the risk weights for those assets? And if not would you do so? We have not.
We thought we were actually being quite expansive breaking out the risk weights by category.
We've given you some of the product areas but we have not broken it out more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I assume in the run-off that you guys had even though you had some opportunistic active runoff here this quarter that the forward look is still all passive.
Is that right? It's overwhelmingly passive just as we built up the first forecast.
And I think one of the potentially obvious points is given the focus in governance around RWA reduction we were able to pull forward and execute.
And again there's only so many times you can pull things forward.
But this is primarily passive mitigation at this point with a focus on trying to continue to accelerate some of the active.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry if I missed this but can you or have you quantified the revenue opportunity that's in the order flow capture once you guys own all of MSSB? We haven't broken out the order flow agreement separately but when you take the order flow agreement the return on higher deposits very importantly assuming that those additional deposits near term merely fund the AFS portfolio and the reduction of the expenses associated with running a joint venture like extra reporting and other items like that those 3 items in the aggregate are about comparable to the earnings from the 35%.
And again a couple of items.
One that's again assuming that if we're just putting that into an AFS portfolio clearly as we're lending it out there it's greater returns.
And that's the key point.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So as we're modeling this a check figure would be maybe to watch the -- take a look at the NCI and double it effectively.
And then as along as we're getting that kind of upside then we're in the right ballpark.
Yes.
I think one thing you probably want to look at is the slide that James walked you through.
We indicated that the incremental capital ballpark $400 million and that the earnings in the first year ballpark the same number.
So we're kind of helping you triangulate right back to those -- how much that will bring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I appreciate that.
And then just last one for me.
On the wealth management business can you give some color around risk appetite and what you guys are seeing around all this noise out of D.C.? Is it impacting risk appetites there? Are you starting to see a little relief now that we've moved past some of it or at least people might realize that noise and all that out of D.C.
are just a permanent part of the landscape at this point? Let me take a cut at that because I've been pretty involved with some of the stuff going on in the fiscal side and trying to get the temperature of the retail investor.
I would say that somewhere around early December there was a shift in tone and a pickup in activity and by definition a pickup in risk appetite.
So investors were re-engaging.
Businesses of this size and this geographic dispersity don't move dramatically month to month but there was definitely a tonal shift.
I think it's too early obviously in this quarter to say much about that.
But it feels similar and the more progress that we have on the fiscal front the more confidence investors will have to get out there and invest.
The other thing you have to look at Brennan is that the 401(k) plans are up materially last year so the wealth impact of people is up materially.
They get to the end of the year they see their 401(k) holding is up on average equity side up 15%.
That has a real driving factor around investment behavior.
So I think we -- my personal view is that absent a reversal in the U.S.
economy which I don't anticipate or a complete mess up in Washington which I don't anticipate because they're making progress I think we've passed the bottom.
Research Division</strong> Well you can never not count on a complete mess up out of Washington.
On the lending in Global Wealth Management do you have a target loan-to-deposit ratio that you'd like to move towards? At this point we don't.
I think the main point to note is we do have the largest retail distribution system.
And as James noted we think there's real upside because only 5% of our clients are currently using our lending suite.
It's ballpark 10% for our peers and that's just because historically this hasn't been a strategic focus for us.
So our deposits will be growing to about $140 billion post-acquisition.
We think we have real meaningful upside there.
It wouldn't be fully utilized just on the wealth management side at least in the very near term.
We're continuing to be quite prudent about the way we're growing that portfolio.
And that's why when we talk about deposit growth it's not just with respect to wealth management but it's also what we're doing on the institutional side with relationship lending and event lending and with additional products moving into the bank bank-appropriate products such as things like commercial real estate lending or asset-based lending with our existing corporate clients.
Fair enough.
On your Slide 7 James on the FICC discussion the RWA net reduction of $30 billion through sort of the net of strategic reductions and growth is there any way that we can get under that just to see how you're thinking about how you would shift emphasis on the business within FICC? The focus within FICC is very consistent with what we've been talking about for quite some time.
And so there are areas of growth within those core product areas we're continuing to be active in rates and have invested in it at foreign exchange.
Similarly we're continuing to benefit from the electronic trading platform.
In fact we set new records internally for trade volumes last quarter.
Credit remains important to us.
We're very active in mortgages.
So it continues to be in the areas that we've spoken about and we just wanted to leave some cushion for ongoing growth there which is part of the plan.
Sure that's helpful.
On Page 12 of the slides can you give us a sense for how much of getting to that 9% ROE with no change in market conditions would be contingent on getting to the FICC market share targets that you've laid out in the past? We've tried to give as many levers as we can.
We are still committed to the market share gains the 2% market share gains that we've talked about.
We're also very focused on the returns in the business and you can see that with what we've done on RWA reduction but I haven't broken that out.
Yes but it sounds like fundamentally you did assume in that analysis that you did gain those couple of points of share.
No because what we have here as first bullet is -- no change in market conditions is essentially just a flat revenue environment and then layer in the actions that we've put into this slide deck here.
Okay.
So you don't assume that you have any meaningful share gain within the context of the flat market? I just want to make sure I understand what your assumptions are.
Yes.
We have 2 -- let me be very clear here.
For purposes of the slide and the 9% we've delineated the steps that we're taking assuming no change in market condition.
For purposes of the way we're running the business and the way our business leaders think about the business of course we're continuing to pursue the market share gains for all the reasons that we've talked about.
I was answering 2 questions I apologize.
No but now it's clear.
That helps a lot.
And then finally just not to harp on this margin target on GWM but it almost sounds like you want to raise the target there except that you don't want to do that in the face of some seasonality in the first quarter on the expense base and I understand that.
But should we be thinking that it goes up that the target goes up beyond the first quarter? Let me have a go at this.
I mean listen.
Firstly one quarter is 13 weeks.
So let's not get too wound up about precisely where we are.
As Ruth said there's some seasonality.
We were criticized in the past for laying out a 20% margin 4 years ago for this business.
We didn't anticipate a very difficult market.
We didn't anticipate 0 interest rates and we're guilty as charged.
So we said we would deliver in this business mid-teen margins by the middle of next year and that's what we're focused on.
So let's revisit it Guy when we get to the mid-teen margins in the middle of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on your Basel III capital ratio and what you think your target is now post -- do you think -- I noticed somewhere there was a 9% yield to investment bank in the capital allocation on the risk-weighted assets side.
And then secondly just within your Slide 12 when you talked about 1% accretion from returning excess capital I mean that seems quite low.
Is that just in 1 year or could you just talk a bit more about that? Certainly.
So we're assuming that we'll run at a buffer above the requirements.
So with our GCP buffer that would put us at about 8.5% run at a buffer above that.
We're obviously looking to continue to accrete capital which will take those ratios up in particular with what we're doing on the RWA reduction side.
And then the question really becomes over what time do we -- are we returning capital and that's a function of earnings in the regulatory environment.
And it's also how do we look to reinvest some of that capital in our business.
I mean there's some pretty obvious areas with $140 billion of deposits coming on and the opportunity to grow the suite of lending products as I've talked about both wealth management and institutional.
Some of it goes behind that.
But we have not laid out a timeline for the return of capital and we'll leave it to you to model in how much upside incremental upside there is over what period of time returning excess capital.
Well with that we thank you very much for joining our fourth quarter call and look forward to speaking to you in 13 weeks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!